1.1 Immune Checkpoints
L. Mahjoubi1
N. A. Rizvi2
A. Marabelle1,3
Gustave Roussy, Université Paris-Saclay, Département d’Innovation
Thérapeutique et d’Essais Précoces, Villejuif, France
2
Thoracic Oncology, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA
3
INSERM U1015, Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France
1

Definition
Immune checkpoint molecules are key modulators of the anti-tumour T
cell immune response. They are present on T cells, antigen-presenting
cells (APCs) and tumour cells; their interaction activates either inhibitory or activating immune signalling pathways. Examples of inhibitory
immune checkpoints shown to induce a negative signal to T cells are:
n Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4, also known as CD152)
n Programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1, also known as CD279)
n Lymphocyte-activation gene 3 (LAG-3)
n T cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain 3 (TIM-3)
n V-domain immunoglobulin suppressor of T cell activation (VISTA)
Inhibitory immune checkpoints play a vital role in maintaining immune
self-tolerance. Indeed, negative co-stimulatory signals help to prevent
T cells from showing autoimmune reactions.
On the other hand, co-stimulatory immune checkpoints have been shown
to enhance T cell expansion and survival. Examples are:
n CD40
n OX40 (also known as CD134)

3

n
n

n

4-1BB (also known as CD137)
Glucocorticoid-induced tumour necrosis factor (TNF) receptor
(GITR)
Inducible T cell co-stimulator (ICOS, also known as CD278)


Other intracellular metabolic pathways play a critical role in the activation
of immune cells and could, by extension, be considered as immune checkpoints. For instance, in tumour cells and myeloid cells, indoleamine 2,
3-dioxygenase (IDO) and arginase are key enzymes which, by depleting
amino acids, can inhibit the effector functions of T cells. However, we
will focus here on immune checkpoint molecules: membrane-expressed
receptors and ligands, which determine, at the level of the intercellular
synapse, if an immune cell becomes activated or inhibited. We will also
concentrate on immune checkpoints involved in the activation of T cells,
as they are of current clinical interest. However, other immune checkpoints play a critical role for the modulation of other subsets of immune
cells (e.g. CD40 for B cells).

Immune Synapse
Immune Recognition of Tumour Antigens by T Cells
During the priming phase of anti-tumour immunity, tumour antigens are
presented to T cells via APCs, such as dendritic cells (DCs) or macrophages. The specificity of T cell activation against a tumour antigen
relies on the cognate recognition of the antigen presented by the major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) proteins on the surface of APCs and
the T cell receptor (TCR). During the effector phase of the anti-tumour
immune response, primed T cells will recognise the tumour antigens
presented by MHC molecules expressed by the tumour cells. CD8+ and
CD4+ T cells can recognise peptides presented by MHC-I and MHCII molecules, respectively. This TCR/MHC interaction provides the first
signal for T cell activation (signal 1).

4

Mahjoubi et al.

Co-stimulatory Molecules
The activation of a T cell also requires a second signal, provided by costimulatory molecules. The first co-stimulatory molecules historically
identified belong to the immunoglobulin B7 superfamily. CD80 (also
known as B7.1) and CD86 (also known as B7.2) are expressed at the
surface of either APCs or cancer cells, and act as activating ligands of the
co-stimulatory receptor CD28 expressed on the surface of T cells (signal
2). More recently, other co-stimulatory immune checkpoints have been
described, such as OX40 (CD134), 4-1BB (CD137) or GITR (CD357).
These TCRs belong to the TNF superfamily receptors (TNFSFRs) and
their activation enhances T cell survival and effector functions. From
the same family, CD40 is expressed on APCs and amplifies T cell activation by increasing antigen presentations. Interestingly, co-stimulatory
molecules are also highly expressed on immunosuppressive regulatory
T cells (Tregs). The activation of Tregs favours immune self-tolerance.
Defective Tregs have been associated with autoimmune disorders, while
intratumoural Tregs have been associated with a worse prognosis in many
cancers.
Co-inhibitory Receptors
Upon T cell activation, negative feedback loops can prevent overstimulation of self-reactivity. Like the CD28 receptor structure, but with opposite effects, the co-inhibitory receptor CTLA-4 has been shown to bind
to CD80 and CD86 with a much higher affinity than CD28, delivering
inhibitory signals to T cells and therefore blocking T cell activation. The
membrane expression of CTLA-4 is mostly found on CD4+ T cells, notably Tregs (Figure 1). Upon activation, the PD-1 receptor can be upregulated on T cells and can interact with two ligands: programmed deathligand 1 (PD-L1) (also known as B7H1 or CD274) and PD-L2 (also
known as B7DC or CD273). Once bound to its ligands, PD-1 confers a
negative signal to effector T cells, thereby inhibiting their cytotoxic functions. CTLA-4 and PD-1 are usually highly expressed on intratumoural
T cells and their stimulation is thought to contribute to the overall inhibition of anti-tumour T cells.

1.1 Immune Checkpoints

5

Figure 1 Evolution of CTLA-4 and PD-1 immune checkpoint expression in the
immune response.
From Pardoll DM. The blockade of immune checkpoints in cancer immunotherapy. Nat Rev Cancer 2012;
12:252–264. Reprinted with permission of Nature/Springer/Palgrave. Copyright ©2012.

a
DC

CTLA-4 to
cell surface

CD80 or
CD86 CD28
Signal 1
TCR
Peptide
MHC
Naïve or resting
T cell

b

Co-stimulating
ligand

Co-stimulating
receptor

Signal 1

Intracellular
vesicle
CTLA-4

Trafficking
of T cells to
peripheral
tissues

Tissue

Signal 1

Signal 1
Priming of
T cells

PD-L1
or PD-L2 PD-1
Inflammation

Antigen-experienced
T cell

(a)	The CTLA-4-mediated immune checkpoint is induced in T cells at the time of their initial response to antigen.
The level of CTLA-4 induction depends on the amplitude of the initial T cell receptor (TCR)-mediated signalling.
High-affinity ligands induce higher levels of CTLA-4, which dampens the amplitude of the initial response. After the
TCR is triggered by antigen encounter, CTLA-4 is transported to the cell surface. Therefore, CTLA-4 functions as
a signal dampener to maintain a consistent level of T cell activation.
(b)	By contrast, the major role of the PD-1 pathway is not at the initial T cell activation stage but rather to regulate
inflammatory responses in tissues by effector T cells recognising antigen in peripheral tissues. Inflammatory signals
in the tissues induce the expression of PD-1 ligands. IFN-γ is predominantly produced by T helper 1 (TH1) cells.
Excessive induction of PD-1 on T cells in the setting of chronic antigen exposure can induce an exhausted or
anergic state in T cells.
Abbreviations: CTLA-4, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4; DC, dendritic cell; IFN, interferon; MHC, major histocompatibility complex;
PD-1, programmed cell death protein 1; PD-L1/2, programmed death-ligand 1/2; TCR, T cell receptor.

Immune Checkpoint-targeted Therapies
The scientific rationale that anti-tumour T cells could be blocked in their
functions by co-inhibitory receptors led to the idea of designing antagonistic antibodies to dampen the CTLA-4/B7 and PD-1/PD-L1/2 interactions, and unleash the effector signals on T cells either at the priming or
effector phases. This idea has been a major paradigm shift in the strategy
to treat cancers, where instead of designing tumour-targeted therapies, we

6

Mahjoubi et al.

would now design immune-targeted therapies in order to break the cancer
immune tolerance, restoring T cell recognition against tumour cells.

Technical Procedures
As opposed to chemotherapies (ChTs) and tumour-targeted therapies,
which aim to directly destroy cancer cells, immune checkpoint-directed
therapies bind lymphocyte ligands or receptors to enhance the lymphocyte activation and allow a cytotoxic anti-tumour immune response.
The first immune checkpoint-targeted therapies developed in the clinic
were humanised or fully human monoclonal antibodies selected for their
antagonistic properties against immune checkpoints such as CTLA-4,
PD-1 and PD-L1. They have demonstrated promising clinical activity in
more than 30 different cancer types in early phase trials. Patients with a
tumour response share a common feature: their response is more durable
than has been observed to date with ChTs and tumour-targeted therapies.
This durability of tumour response has translated into significant overall
survival (OS) benefits in several phase III clinical trials. Another characteristic of these drugs is their safety profile: they can trigger autoimmune and inflammatory toxicities in patients, so-called immune-related
adverse events (irAEs).
Different isotypes have been used so far in the clinic (Table 1). These
antibodies usually have a long half-life and are usually infused intravenously (i.v.) with varying intervals of administration. Anti-PD-1 and
anti-PD-L1 antibodies were initially developed on weight-based dosing. However, results from several clinical trials have shown no correlation between dose, efficacy and toxicity for anti-PD-(L)1, and most
compounds are now developed with a flat dose, sufficient to saturate
the target. For the anti-CTLA-4 antibody ipilimumab, there was no
dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) identified in early phase trials. However,
a recent randomised study in patients with metastatic melanoma (MM)
has shown that ipilimumab was more active and more toxic at 10 mg/kg
than the approved dose of 3 mg/kg. This dose–efficacy relationship of
ipilimumab currently raises questions about the mechanism of action of
anti-CTLA-4 antibodies and the optimal dose to be used when combined
with anti-PD-(L)1 antibodies.
1.1 Immune Checkpoints

7

Table 1 First Generation of Immune Checkpoint-targeted Monoclonal Antibodies
Target

Name

Isotype

Anti-CTLA-4

Ipilimumab

IgG1

Tremelimumab

IgG2

Nivolumab

IgG4

Pembrolizumab

IgG4

PDR001

IgG4

Atezolizumab

Fc mut* IgG1

Durvalumab

Fc mut IgG1

Avelumab

IgG1

Anti-PD-1

Anti-PD-L1

Fc mut: antibodies which have been mutated in their Fc part in order to avoid Fc receptor activation and antibody-dependent
cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC).
Abbreviations: CTLA-4, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4; Ig, immunoglobulin; PD-1, programmed cell death protein 1;
PD-L1, programmed death-ligand 1.
*

New antibodies targeting inhibitory immune checkpoints such as LAG-3,
T cell immunoreceptor with immunoglobulin and inhibitory motif
(TIGIT), VISTA and TIM-3, and co-stimulatory checkpoints such as
OX40, CD40, 4-1BB, GITR and ICOS are currently being evaluated.

Predictive and/or Prognostic Biomarkers of
(Potential) Clinical Relevance
PD-L1 Staining
The tumoural expression of PD-L1, assessed by immunohistochemistry
(IHC) staining, has been identified as a biomarker associated with a higher
chance of tumour response in patients treated with anti-PD-L1 antibodies
and a better OS in multiple tumour types. The PD-L1 status of a tumour
relies both on the IHC staining kit and the scoring methods. Because of
the heterogeneity of assays, there is no consensus on a cut-off defining
a PD-L1-high tumour. PD-L1 can be expressed either constitutively via
an oncogenic pathway or induced by inflammatory cytokines such as
interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) (Figure 2). IFN-γ can also lead to the upregulation of PD-L1 at the surface of any cell in the tumour microenvironment,
and activated T cells could be double-positive for PD-1 and PD-L1.

8

Mahjoubi et al.

Figure 2 Expression of PD-L1 on tumour cells.
From Pardoll DM. The blockade of immune checkpoints in cancer immunotherapy. Nat Rev Cancer 2012;
12:252–264. Reprinted with permission of Nature/Springer/Palgrave. Copyright ©2012.

a Innate immune resistance
MHC

Peptide
TCR

T cell
Constitutive oncogenic signalling
induces PD-L1 expression on
tumour cells

Tumour cell
Oncogenic
pathway

PD-L1

PD-1

T cell-induced PD-L1
upregulation

b Adaptive immune resistance
MHC

T cell
MHC

Tumour
cell

Peptide
TCR
STATs

PD-L1

Peptide
TCR

PD-1
IFNγ

(a)	In some tumours, constitutive oncogenic signalling can upregulate PD-L1 expression on all tumour cells,
independently of inflammatory signals in the tumour microenvironment. Activation of the Akt and signal
transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathways has been reported to drive PD-L1 expression.
(b)	In some tumours, PD-L1 is induced in response to inflammatory signals. Adaptive induction may be a common
mechanism for the expression of multiple immune checkpoint molecules in tumours.
Abbreviations: IFN, interferon; MHC, major histocompatibility complex; PD-1, programmed cell death protein 1; PD-L1, programmed
death-ligand 1; STAT, signal transducer and activator of transcription; TCR, T cell receptor.

Pembrolizumab is, at present, the only anti-PD-1 antibody to be approved by
the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for a selected population of PDL1-positive patients in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and gastric cancer.
Inflammatory Tumours and CD8+ T cells
In several tumour types, tumours with IFN-γ gene expression profile and
a high level of tumour-infiltrative CD8+ T cells have better responses and
survival following anti-PD-(L)1 therapy.
Mutational Load
Tumours with a high mutational load have been correlated with OS benefits following treatment with ipilimumab in MM, with pembrolizumab
1.1 Immune Checkpoints

9

in NSCLC and with atezolizumab in bladder cancers. It is currently
believed that a high tumour mutation burden (TMB) yields numerous
immunogenic cancer cell neo-epitopes, that may be recognised by
T cells upon presentation by MHC molecules. However, the TMB seems
to be a prognostic marker independent of the intratumoural inflammatory
gene expression profile. The assessment of TMB is currently evaluated
from either tumour samples or circulating tumour DNA.
Mismatch Repair Status
Tumours with DNA mismatch repair deficiency (dMMR)/microsatellite
instability-high (MSI-H) have shown great sensitivity to anti-PD-(L)1
therapies. It is currently believed that tumours harbouring an erroneous
MMR system will accumulate DNA mutations, which can lead to the
presence of high levels of mutation-associated neoantigens, most recognised by immune cells. Tumours identified as having a dMMR/MSI-H
status are eligible for treatment with pembrolizumab in the USA.
Blood Biomarkers
A high neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio has been associated with poor
outcomes in patients treated with ipilimumab and anti-PD-(L)1 therapy
across different tumour types. High levels of serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) or soluble CD25 have been associated with poor prognosis,
although none is currently used in the clinic.
Microbiota
In preclinical models, the gut microbiota has been identified as a key
modulator of the immune system by enhancing T cell activation and
infiltration into tumours. The impact of the gut microbiome on anti-PD(L)1 efficacy remains to be demonstrated in humans, but is currently
under active investigation.

Clinical Results
Immune checkpoint-targeted therapies have received FDA approvals in
ten tumour types or categories of cancer between 2011 and 2017: MM,
NSCLC, renal cell carcinoma (RCC), urothelial cancers, head and neck

10

Mahjoubi et al.

squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), Hodgkin lymphoma (HL), Merkel
cell carcinoma (MCC), hepatocellular carcinoma, gastric cancer and a
range of MSI-H cancers.
Anti-CTLA-4
The only anti-CTLA-4-blocking antibody that has received FDA approval
is ipilimumab in MM patients, first as monotherapy in 2011, and in combination with nivolumab in 2015. Approval was based on the pivotal data of
the CheckMate 067 trial, with an objective response rate (ORR) of 72.1%
with nivolumab plus ipilimumab versus 21.3% with ipilimumab alone
and statistically significant updated OS results for the combination versus ipilimumab (not reached [NR] versus 19.9 months in the ipilimumab
group). Similarly, first-line combination therapy with nivolumab and ipilimumab has recently demonstrated clinical benefit in patients with previously untreated advanced or metastatic RCC. Results from the phase III
CheckMate 214 trial showed significant improvement in OS (NR versus
26 months) and progression-free survival (PFS) (11.6 months versus 8.4
months) compared with sunitinib in intermediate- and poor-risk patients
with metastatic RCC. In advanced NSCLC, the phase I CheckMate 012
trial showed significant clinical benefit for this combination, with an overall response in up to 47% of the patients; a phase III trial (CheckMate
227) is currently ongoing to confirm these results. This combination is
also currently being evaluated in patients with unresectable pleural mesothelioma, in the CheckMate 743 study. In patients with advanced MM
and patients with relapsed malignant mesothelioma, tremelimumab failed
to demonstrate significant survival benefits compared with standard-ofcare (SoC) ChT and placebo, respectively. Recently, the combination of
durvalumab and tremelimumab did not reach the PFS outcome primary
endpoint in the MYSTIC study in first-line treatment for patients with
metastatic NSCLC, while the OS analysis is still pending.
Anti-PD-1
Nivolumab was first approved for patients with MM (CheckMate 066
and CheckMate 037) and for adjuvant therapy of resected stage III melanoma (CheckMate 238). Nivolumab is approved for patients with squamous (CheckMate 017) and non-squamous (CheckMate 057) NSCLC,
1.1 Immune Checkpoints

11

RCC (CheckMate 025), HNSCC (CheckMate 141), urothelial carcinoma
(CheckMate 275), dMMR metastatic colorectal cancer (CheckMate 142)
and classical HL after failure of first-line therapies. Treatment in patients
with HL must follow relapse after autologous haematopoietic stem cell
transplantation and post-transplantation brentuximab vedotin (CheckMate 205 and CheckMate 039). Most surprisingly, in NSCLC, nivolumab
failed to demonstrate its superiority over ChT in the randomised phase
III study CheckMate 026, in first-line treatment of patients with tumours
with PD-L1 tumour expression ≥5%. Of note, there was imbalance in
terms of TMB level between the two therapeutic arms, which could have
contributed to this negative result. Indeed, patients with a high TMB
showed a higher ORR and PFS when treated with nivolumab compared
with ChT, and the inverse was shown in patients with low TMB. Interestingly, there was no correlation between the level of tumour PD-L1
expression and TMB.
Like nivolumab, pembrolizumab has been approved as second-line treatment of refractory/relapsing MM, NSCLC (with PD-L1 >1%), HNSCC,
classical HL, urothelial carcinoma and any solid tumour expressing
MSI-H status. In previously untreated advanced or metastatic NSCLC,
pembrolizumab has been approved for patients harbouring PD-L1
expression on at least 50% of tumour cells, with an ORR of 44.8% versus
27.8% in the ChT group, from the pivotal phase III KEYNOTE-024 trial.
Also, the combination of pembrolizumab with carboplatin and pemetrexed is now a SoC for patients with metastatic NSCLC, irrespective
of PD-L1 expression, based on the results of the KEYNOTE-021 study
(ORR 55% versus 29%). Pembrolizumab has also been approved as
first-line treatment of cisplatin-ineligible urothelial carcinoma patients,
thanks to the results of KEYNOTE-052 (ORR of 29%).
Anti-PD-L1
Anti-PD-L1-blocking antibodies have also been approved in certain
other tumour types, such as advanced bladder carcinoma for durvalumab
and atezolizumab, based on the results of the phase III DANUBE and
phase II IMvigor 210 trials, respectively. In patients with metastatic
NSCLC, atezolizumab has been approved based on the results of the

12

Mahjoubi et al.

phase II POPLAR and phase III OAK trials with OS of 12.6 months
versus 8.9 months for second-line treatment. Recently, durvalumab has
shown statistically significant improvement in PFS (16.8 months versus
5.6 months) after chemoradiotherapy in patients with locally advanced
NSCLC (PACIFIC trial). A third anti-PD-L1 agent, avelumab, was
approved in 2017 as both second-line treatment of metastatic urothelial
carcinoma and first-line treatment of metastatic MCC.

Potential Future Developments
Because tumour-targeted therapies mostly confer improvements in PFS,
and immune checkpoint-targeted therapies seem to provide greater OS
benefits (at least for metastatic disease), the combination of the two categories of agents may significantly improve both survival and durable
responses in many cancer types. Also, the combination of immunotherapies is currently investigated in many clinical trials in multiple tumour
types. By boosting the efficacy of the immune system, co-stimulatory
checkpoint agonists could also be of interest to enhance the anti-tumour
response generated by immune checkpoint blockers. The modulation of
innate immune cells with immune checkpoint antibodies, pattern recognition receptor agonists, or oncolytic viruses could also boost the adaptive immune system. Another class of antibodies targeting both tumour
cells and T cells (so-called bispecific T cell engager antibodies) is currently being evaluated and could be of interest in combination with antiPD-L1 antibodies.
Although immune checkpoint-targeted antibodies confer long-term
durable responses, a greater understanding of primary and secondary
resistance mechanisms to these agents is key for the future development
of cancer immunotherapy and patient selection.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Mahjoubi has reported no conflicts of interest.
Dr Rizvi is an investigator and co-investigator of industry-sponsored
clinical trials using immune checkpoint-targeted drugs. He has provided
consulting services and has participated in scientific advisory boards of
companies developing immune checkpoint-targeted therapies. He has
1.1 Immune Checkpoints

13

served as a consultant to AstraZeneca, Lilly, Roche/Genentech, Pfizer,
Novartis, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Merck Sharp & Dohme. He is a
shareholder in Gritstone Oncology.
Dr Marabelle is an investigator and co-investigator of industry-sponsored clinical trials using immune checkpoint-targeted drugs. He has
provided consulting services and has participated in scientific advisory
boards of companies developing immune checkpoint-targeted therapies.
He has received consultancy fees and honoraria from AstraZeneca,
Merck Serono, Roche/Genentech, Pfizer, Novartis, Lytix Pharma, BristolMyers Squibb and Merck Sharp & Dohme. He has no stock ownership.

Further Reading
Carbone DP, Reck M, Paz-Ares L, et al. First-line nivolumab in stage IV or
recurrent non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2017; 376:2415–2426.
Chen DS, Mellman I. Elements of cancer immunity and the cancer-immune set
point. Nature 2017; 541:321–330.
Hodi FS, O’Day SJ, McDermott DF, et al. Improved survival with ipilimumab
in patients with metastatic melanoma. N Engl J Med 2010; 363:711–723.
Le DT, Durham JN, Smith KN, et al. Mismatch repair deficiency predicts
response of solid tumours to PD-1 blockade. Science 2017; 357:409–413.
Pardoll DM. The blockade of immune checkpoints in cancer immunotherapy.
Nat Rev Cancer 2012; 12:252–264.
Peggs KS, Quezada SA, Chambers CA, et al. Blockade of CTLA-4 on both
effector and regulatory T cell compartments contributes to the antitumour
activity of anti–CTLA-4 antibodies. J Exp Med 2009; 206:1717–1725.
Reck M, Rodríguez-Abreu D, Robinson AG, et al. Pembrolizumab versus
chemotherapy for PD-L1–positive non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med
2016; 375:1823–1833.
Rizvi NA, Hellmann MD, Snyder A, et al. Cancer immunology. Mutational landscape determines sensitivity to PD-1 blockade in non-small cell lung cancer.
Science 2015; 348:124-128.
Watts TH. TNF/TNFR family members in costimulation of T cell responses.
Annu Rev Immunol 2005; 23:23–68.
Wolchok JD, Chiarion-Sileni V, Gonzalez R, et al. Overall survival with combined nivolumab and ipilimumab in advanced melanoma. N Engl J Med
2017; 377:1345-1356.

14

Mahjoubi et al.

1.2 Adoptive T Cell Therapy
I. M. Svane
M. Donia
Ö. Met
Center for Cancer Immune Therapy-CCIT, Department of Haematology and
Oncology, Herlev Hospital, University of Copenhagen, Denmark

The goal of adoptive T cell therapy (ACT) is to generate a robust
immune-mediated antitumour response through infusion of ex vivo
manipulated T cells. ACT strategies with the aim of utilising T cells
to destroy tumours can be divided into: (1) the isolation of naturally
occurring tumour-specific T cells from existing tumour masses and (2)
the genetic modification of blood-derived T cells to allow for specific
recognition of tumour cells. In both settings, T cells are manipulated
ex vivo followed by an expansion process and eventually infused into the
lymphodepleted patient (Figure 1).

Naturally Occurring Tumour-specific T Cells
Traditional ACT involves the isolation of tumour infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) from tumour tissue, followed by ex vivo massive expansion until enough T cells can be reinfused intravenously into the patient
(Figure 1A). Since strategies based on isolation of tumour-specific
T cells from the blood have so far achieved limited clinical success, this
will not be discussed further here.
TILs constitute a heterogeneous population of cells, including mostly
T cells and natural killer (NK) cells, which may be present in any solid
tumour. Already in the 1980s, it was observed that TILs can recognise
and kill cultured autologous tumour cells in vitro. Direct tumour killing
is mostly mediated by CD8+ T cells, present within TILs. Thus, TILs are
generally enriched for tumour-specific T cells, which have penetrated the

15

Figure 1 Different adoptive T cell transfer approaches to harness the immune
system in cancer therapy.
A

B

(A) Adoptive transfer of anti-tumour T cells isolated from within a patient’s tumour. TILs are extracted from surgically
resected tumour samples, then expanded in vitro, followed by re-infusion into the lymphodepleted patient.
(B) 	T cells from patient peripheral blood are isolated and expanded in culture, and genetically modified to express
either a TCR or a CAR that confers the ability to specifically recognise and destroy tumour cells when re-infused
into the lymphodepleted patient.
Abbreviations: CAR, chimeric antigen receptor; REP, rapid expansion protocol; TCR, T cell receptor; TIL, tumour infiltrating lymphocyte.

tumour microenvironment. Most importantly, TILs can recognise several
antigens that are uniquely expressed on the individual patient’s tumour
cells (including neoantigens arising from somatic genetic alterations,
aberrantly expressed cancer/testis antigens, overexpressed self-antigens
and some lineage antigens). Thus, TILs may orchestrate a highly specific
multi-target attack directed towards the individual cancer.
The natural ability of TILs to kill autologous tumours can be exploited
therapeutically with ACT. In its most widespread application, TIL-based
ACT involves the isolation of TILs from tumour tissue of the patient,
followed by massive expansion of unselected TILs and infusion back
into the patient. Before infusion, lymphodepleting chemotherapy (ChT)
is administered to create ‘physical space’ for the high number of TILs.
Following infusion, the immune-stimulating cytokine interleukin-2 (IL-2)

16

Svane et al.

is administered to the patient to support the survival and continued
expansion of the TILs in vivo.
Briefly, resected tumour tissue is minced or digested and, following 1–3
weeks of in vitro culture in media containing high doses of IL-2, TILs
are released and initially expanded. After the initial expansion, TILs are
expanded massively without any further selection using the rapid expansion protocol (REP) for about 2 weeks, before being infused back to the
patient; typically, around 100×109 cells are infused. Now, a very large
population of expanded TILs is circulating in the peripheral blood of
the patient. The natural capacity of TILs to reach tumour sites and kill
autologous tumour cells is crucial to ensure tumour regression.
This TIL ACT approach has been found to mediate complete and durable
responses in 10%–20% of patients with metastatic melanoma, and can also
yield clinical responses in other selected types of solid tumours. In principle,
any patient with a resectable tumour which contains tumour-reactive T cells
can benefit from this approach, the constraint being the consistent generation and laborious ex vivo expansion of huge numbers of TILs. Furthermore,
classical TIL ACT comprises intensive treatment regimens with high-dose
conditioning ChT and high-dose IL-2, necessitating hospitalisation for
around 3 weeks. All patients experience grade 3 and 4 toxicity and the treatment centre should be experienced in managing these potentially serious
adverse events. In general, TIL ACT is only offered in one treatment cycle.
Active research is exploring how to improve the efficacy of TIL-based
ACT in melanoma, to extend its efficacy to several other tumour types, as
well as to increase its availability to reference cancer centres.

Genetically Modified T Cells
The approach of using genetically modified T cells is based on the premise that the antigen specificity of T cells can be manipulated by genetic
engineering to target antigens expressed by tumours. This is especially
valid in situations in which endogenous antitumour reactivity is lacking.
This has been accomplished by transducing T cells with either tumour
antigen-specific T cell receptors (TCRs) or with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) (Figure 1B).
1.2 Adoptive T Cell Therapy

17

TCRs are naturally occurring surface receptors on T cells that can recognise
peptide antigens presented on the surface of host cells by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC)/human leukocyte antigen (HLA) system.
Genetically modified TCR gene therapy has the purpose of altering T cell
specificity through the expression of a new TCR alpha and beta chain pair
that is specific for a tumour antigen (Figure 2A). For this purpose, TCRs
from rare T cells have been identified that are able to recognise naturally
processed and expressed tumour antigens, allowing them to specifically
attack malignant tissue. However, as TCRs bind to peptide/MHC complexes on the surface of tumour cells, the tumour-specific TCRs can only
be used in a patient population that has this specific MHC or HLA allele.
After the isolation and sequencing of these tumour-specific TCRs, they
are cloned into retro- or lentiviral vectors, which can be used to transduce peripheral blood T cells from patients ex vivo, followed by expansion and re-infusion (Figure 1B).
In most cases, tumour antigen-specific T cells targeting self-antigens
isolated from cancer patients are typically of low affinity, because of
the impact of central tolerance to these antigens on the T cell repertoire.
Attempts to overcome this issue have included the:
n
Engineering of high-affinity TCRs by affinity maturation
n
Generation of murine TCRs by immunising transgenic mice that
express an HLA allele plus human tumour antigen, and
n
Isolation of TCRs in an allogeneic setting, in which T cells are
induced in vitro against a foreign HLA–peptide complex, as the repertoire is not limited by thymic selection
In the first proof-of-principle study using genetically modified TCRs,
T cells from metastatic melanoma patients were transduced with a TCR
directed against HLA-A*0201/MART-1 peptide, which was cloned from
TIL isolated from a resected melanoma lesion of an HLA-A*0201 patient
who had responded to TIL treatment. Sustained objective responses were
demonstrated in a minor proportion of treated metastatic melanoma
(MM) patients with no significant toxicity, and infused TCR-modified T
cells persisted for more than a year. Other trials have subsequently dem-

18

Svane et al.

Figure 2 Genetically modified T cells.
A

B

(A) T cells recognise their target by the TCR complex, which is composed of the TCR α and β chain for recognition
and the CD3 chains for signalling. T cells can be genetically engineered with defined specificity by expression of
recombinant TCR αβ chains of known specificity.
(B)	CARs are composed of an scFv derived from the antigen-binding domain of antibodies, fused to the CD3ζ
transmembrane and intracellular signalling domains from the TCR complex. Additional intracellular signalling
domains are added for co-stimulatory signals, such as the CD28 and 4-1BB signalling domains, to yield secondand third-generation CARs.
Abbreviations: CAR, chimeric antigen receptor; scFv, single-chain fragment of variable region; TCR, T cell receptor.

onstrated significant and prolonged tumour regression in cancer patients
using genetically modified TCRs against glycoprotein 100 (gp100),
(melanoma), NY-ESO-1 (melanoma, synovial sarcoma), melanoma antigen A3 (MAGE-A3), (myeloma, melanoma) and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), (colorectal carcinoma).
Patients treated with high-dose conditioning ChT all experience toxicity
including neutropaenia and risk of sepsis. In addition, potential safety
risks are associated with the use of genetically modified T cell therapies,
with the most critical related to:
n
On-target off-tumour toxicity, when infused T cells recognise normal
tissue due to expression of the same antigen (l)e gp100 and MART-1
which are expressed by both melanoma cells and normal melanocytes
1.2 Adoptive T Cell Therapy

19

n

n

Off-target reactivity, when infused T cells can cross-react against
peptides other than the targeted ones, and
Cytokine-release syndrome (CRS), when infused T cells induce sudden and dramatic increase of inflammatory cytokines


The genetic modification of T cells with CARs combines antibody-like
recognition with T cell-activating function (Figure 2B). The construction of a CAR relies on the identification of a suitable antibody to a cell
surface molecule of interest, and, in contrast with the TCR modification
approach, CAR recognition does not rely on peptide processing or presentation by MHC. Thus, all surface-expressed target molecules represent
a potential CAR-triggering epitope.
The first-generation CARs were composed of an antigen-binding region
(a single-chain antibody variable fragment [scFv]) derived from an antibody with the desired specificity, which was fused to the CD3ζ T cell
signalling domain, allowing T cell activation comparable to triggering of the native TCR (Figure 2B). These early CARs provided only
activation signal 1 to T cells, and were shown to lead to CAR-T cell
anergy upon repeated antigen stimulation. Second-generation CARs
contain an additional co-stimulatory domain, such as CD28 and 4-1BB,
which provides activation signal 2 upon scFv engaging the target antigen
(Figure 2B). CAR-T cells carrying CD28 or 4-1BB signalling
moieties have demonstrated potent antitumour activity in clinical trials and clinically meaningful response rates. Third-generation CARs,
which incorporate an additional co-stimulatory domain (Figure 2B),
are now in development to further potentiate persistence and activity of
infused CAR-T cells.
A multitude of clinical trials have demonstrated robust efficacy and
frequently durable responses using CAR-T cells targeting CD19, a B
cell-lineage antigen expressed on the surface of both normal and malignant B cells. CAR-T cells specific for CD19 have been used effectively
to treat patients with ChT-refractory B cell malignancies including
marginal zone lymphoma, aggressive B cell lymphomas, chronic
lymphocytic leukaemia, and adult and paediatric acute lymphoblastic
leukaemia (ALL).

20

Svane et al.

The collective experience from the treatment with CD19-specific CAR-T
cells across different centres using different co-stimulatory domains and
gene transfer methods can be summarised as:
n
Patients should receive lymphodepleting ChT
n
Patients with ALL, in particular, have very high response rates
n
Off-tumour toxicity is primarily limited to B cell aplasia, a condition
that can be clinically managed with prophylactic infusions of immunoglobulin
n
Patients often develop severe CRS, and
n
There is no clear dose–response relationship between the number of
CAR-T cells infused and the likelihood of response
CAR-T cell therapy against solid tumours has yielded limited success
thus far. Potential obstacles include:
n
Inefficient T cell homing to the tumour site
n
More difficult antigen selection due to high antigen heterogeneity
across the same malignancy
n
Physical barriers to tumour infiltration by T cells
n
High risk of on-target, off-tumour toxicity because potential target
antigens are more likely to be expressed in other essential organs, and
n
Potent immunosuppressive factors that render T cells dysfunctional
in the tumour microenvironment
Active preclinical research and clinical trials are attempting to overcome obstacles in the application of CAR-T cells to solid cancer types,
by assessing novel CAR designs with additional receptors and ligands
to ‘armour’ the CAR, gene transfer methods, treatment protocols and
different targets, including CEA for colorectal cancers, disialoganglioside GD2 for neuroblastoma and sarcoma, prostate-specific membrane
antigen (PSMA) for prostate cancer and melanoma, epidermal growth
factor receptor variant III (EGFRvIII) and interleukin-13 receptor α2
(IL13Rα2) for glioblastoma.

1.2 Adoptive T Cell Therapy

21

Concluding Remarks
TIL ACT can induce long-term remission in patients with otherwise
treatment-resistant widespread MM. The use of TIL ACT is, however,
still experimental and restricted to reference cancer centres with expertise in TIL production and clinical management.
The first two commercial gene-modified CD19-targeting CAR-T cell
products have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) as a standard therapy targeting CD19-positive B cell malignancies with significant clinical efficacy.
Indications of clinical effect in certain solid cancer types have been
reported but a major clinical breakthrough for gene-modified TCR/
CAR-T cells is still awaited.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Svane has reported honoraria/consultation fees for Roche, Novartis,
Merck, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Celgene, Incyte, Pfizer, Bristol-Myers
Squibb, AstraZeneca, TILTh Bio and IO Biotech. Dr Svane is a co-founder
of IO Biotech.
Dr Donia has reported no potential conflict of interest.
Dr Met has reported no potential conflict of interest.

Further Reading
Klebanoff CA, Rosenberg SA, Restifo NP. Prospects for gene-engineered T cell
immunotherapy for solid cancers. Nat Med 2016; 22:26–36.
Lim WA, June CH. The principles of engineering immune cells to treat cancer.
Cell 2017; 168:724–740.
Ramos CA, Heslop HE, Brenner MK. CAR-T cell therapy for lymphoma. Annu
Rev Med 2016; 67:165–183.
Rosenberg SA, Restifo NP. Adoptive cell transfer as personalized immunotherapy for human cancer. Science 2015; 348:62–68.

22

Svane et al.

1.3 Vaccines (Dendritic Cell
Vaccines, Peptide Vaccines,
DNA Vaccines, RNA Vaccines,
Oncolytic Viruses)
C. J. M. Melief1
R. Zappasodi2
M. C. Garassino3
M. Di Nicola3
Leiden University Medical Center, ISA Pharmaceuticals, Netherlands
Ludwig Collaborative and Swim Across America Laboratory, Parker Institute for
Cancer Immunotherapy, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA
3
Medical Thoracic Oncology Unit, Department of Medical Oncology and
Hematology, Fondazione IRCCS, Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy
1

2

Definition (Introduction to the Concept and
Development of Cancer Vaccine Strategies)
Active immunotherapy with cancer vaccines aims to instruct the host
immune system to recognise cancer as a foreign ‘non-self’ tissue
and mount specific immune responses that eliminate malignant cells.
Malignant diseases typically evolve by evading anti-tumour immunity,
and cancer vaccines aim to (re-)establish immune responses against
tumour-associated antigens (TAAs) and turn cold tumours (few or no
spontaneous tumour infiltrating lymphocytes [TILs]) into hot tumours
(many TILs). Cancer vaccines may induce de novo immune responses,
by stimulating tumour-specific T cells from the naïve repertoire, and/
or boost existing suboptimal responses by providing new/stronger antigenic stimuli.

23

In recent years, it has become evident that successful cancer vaccines
need to meet a number of important criteria.
First, selection of TAAs, for which the T cell repertoire is not blunted
by central immunological tolerance (i.e. thymic negative selection), is
warranted (Figure 1). This restricts immunogenic TAAs for optimal vaccines to two main categories of ‘non-(or distant-from)-self’ antigens:
oncogenic virus antigens and mutation-based neoantigens, for which
cognate precursor T cells should exist in the human repertoire. Vaccination against such neoantigens was only recently successful in patients
with melanoma and fits with the observation that neoantigen load in
patients with different types of cancers (melanoma, lung and renal cell
carcinoma, and microsatellite instable tumours) is strongly associated
with the success of immune checkpoint blockade therapy (anti-cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte antigen 4 [CTLA-4] and anti-programmed cell death protein 1 [PD-1]). These findings have added tumour-specific neoantigens
to the list of candidate antigens to target in cancer vaccines and ushered
in a new era for cancer vaccine design. We can now develop personalised
vaccines targeting tumour-associated neo-epitopes, identified based on a
genome-wide analysis of tumour-specific expressed mutanome.
Second, selection of the vaccine platform that delivers sufficiently concentrated antigens to vaccine-draining lymph nodes (LNs) for dendritic
cell (DC) presentation to both CD4+ and CD8+ T cell precursors in the
absence of antigenic competition with irrelevant sequences is also key
(Figure 1). Successful vaccine platforms include DNA, RNA and synthetic long peptides (SLPs), consisting respectively of concentrated
nucleic acids encoding TAAs or peptides harbouring the T cell epitopes
themselves. These platforms can be used via direct injection or loaded
onto DCs. Recombinant virus platforms can also be used, but suffer
from induction of T cell responses against vector sequences, causing
antigenic competition with the inserted TAAs. Recombinant protein
vaccines have not been successful, mainly because of the inefficient
nature of exogenous protein processing in DCs, resulting in the induction
of weak CD4 T cell responses in the absence of CD8 T cell responses.

24

Melief et al.

3

Third, vaccines need strong adjuvants. RNA and DNA vaccines have
built-in adjuvants, whereas SLP vaccines need to be supplemented with
an appropriate adjuvant, such as Montanide-ISA-51, poly I:C (toll-like
receptor [TLR] 3 ligand), CpG (TLR9 ligand) and stimulator of type I
interferon (IFN) pathway (e.g. STING agonists).
Fourth, experience with therapeutic cancer vaccines shows the advantage of their use in combination with immune-modulatory treatments
that counteract the immune hostile cancer microenvironment, such as
standard chemotherapy or checkpoint blockade (Massarelli et al, 2018).
Figure 1 Variables in cancer vaccine design. Selection of (1) TAAs to target,
(2) platform/adjuvant for TAA delivery to use, (3) DC targeting strategy (ex vivo or
in vivo) are among the most important aspects to consider in cancer vaccine design
Tumour

Platforms for
DC targeting
Dying tumour
cells/whole
lysate
DNA/RNA

TAA
identification/
selection

In vivo injection
of DC vaccine

Ex vivo DC
targeting

Peptides

Proteins

In vivo DC
targeting

Abbreviations: DC, dendritic cell; TAA, tumour-associated antigen.

1.3 Vaccines (Dendritic Cell Vaccines, Peptide Vaccines, DNA Vaccines,
RNA Vaccines, Oncolytic Viruses)

25

Essential Processes Involved
As discussed above, optimal cancer vaccines must combine the most
adequate antigens, vaccine platform, adjuvants and immunomodulatory
treatment. TAAs should primarily target DCs and proper DC maturation
must be induced so that they traffic to secondary lymphoid organs and
activate TAA-specific T cells. Both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells should be
stimulated, as CD4+ T cells are needed to programme and sustain CD8+
T cell responses through DC signalling and also generate specific T cell
memory. Each step and vaccine component is critical in the design of
effective cancer vaccines; for example, suboptimal DC loading and/
or maturation or pulsing of non-professional antigen-presenting cells
(APCs) with TAAs may promote tolerance rather than tumour rejection.
Some cancer vaccination protocols have incorporated more than a single
adjuvant with the aim to better induce the desired anti-tumour immune
responses and therapeutic effects (e.g. poly I:C plus Montanide with
anti-NY-ESO-1 SLP vaccine).
The route of administration of vaccines is also crucial to efficiently target antigens to DCs in vivo and/or activate the T cell pool that can be
more easily redirected toward the tumour site. In general, subcutaneous
(s.c.) administration or delivery into DC-rich LNs have been preferred
for peptides/DC-based vaccines, and intramuscular (i.m.) injection for
DNA-based vaccines. In the latter case, the efficiency of vaccination was
crucially improved by electroporation. To deliver liposome-encapsulated
RNA vaccines, intravenous (i.v.) administration has been advocated,
because these liposomes can reach numerous LN-DCs following i.v.
administration. Further studies are needed to understand how to select
the administration route of cancer vaccines to more efficiently direct
T cells toward cancer tissues.
Finally, based on the way TAAs are delivered into DCs, cancer vaccines
can be divided into two major categories:
1. Vaccines targeting DCs with TAAs in vivo, through direct injection of
TAAs (via one of the above-mentioned platforms) together with DC maturation stimuli for in vivo DC antigen uptake (Figure 1).
2. Vaccines targeting DCs with TAAs ex vivo, through ex vivo DC pulsing

26

Melief et al.

with TAAs (provided in different formats), and manufacturing of a cellular
product that is ready to stimulate T cells upon in vivo injection (Figure 1).
Direct in vivo DC loading with TAAs is clearly the way forward, because
ex vivo loading of DCs is laborious and expensive and requires patientspecific DC preparation. Moreover, direct in vivo DC-targeting by current therapeutic vaccines has become very efficient. Treatment with ex
vivo loaded DC can be more relevant to show mode of action and proof
of concept. However, multiple strategies in both vaccine categories have
been tested in cancer patients. Here we summarise the development and
therapeutic activity of those that led to the most relevant clinical results.

DC Vaccines
Ex vivo TAA-loaded DCs have been extensively used as a vehicle to
vaccinate against cancer in vivo because of the crucial role of properly
activated DCs in the initiation of effective T cell responses. This strategy requires DC generation/isolation and in vitro pulsing with TAAs in
presence of the proper activating/maturing stimuli and ensures complete
control of the DC product. The procedure may be further optimised to
generate properly activated antigen-loaded DCs ready to traffic to LNs
and stimulate specific T cells in vivo. One of the problems has been that
ex vivo-activated DCs often do not traffic efficiently to LNs upon intracutaneous, s.c. or i.m. injection (see below).
Technical Procedures Involved
Variables associated with the design of DC-based vaccines are numerous
and require precise consideration to maximise the therapeutic efficacy.
These include:
n
DC source or lineage
n
Antigen-engulfing strategy
n
Levels of DC maturation and/or activation
n
Route of vaccine administration
In initial studies with DC-based vaccines, DCs were generated from
CD34+ haematopoietic progenitors or, more commonly, from peripheral
1.3 Vaccines (Dendritic Cell Vaccines, Peptide Vaccines, DNA Vaccines,
RNA Vaccines, Oncolytic Viruses)

27

blood (PB)-derived monocytes following incubation with a cocktail of
maturation cytokines, typically granulocyte–macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and interleukin (IL)-4. More recently, circulating natural DC subsets pulsed ex vivo with TAAs have been tested as a
vaccine, achieving even better therapeutic effects.
The form of antigens used to load DCs is a crucial aspect to consider
when designing anti-cancer vaccination strategies, since it affects major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigen presentation and thereby the
induction of cytotoxic CD8+ and/or helper CD4+ T cell responses. Class
I- or II-MHC-restricted peptides have been largely exploited to pulse
DCs ex vivo. Although peptides can be easily synthesised under Good
Manufacturing Practice (GMP) requirements, this logistical advantage
is offset by the need to pre-determine patient-specific MHC-restricted
tumour-derived peptides and the limited stability of exogenous peptide–
MHC complexes. Use of recombinant antigenic proteins to load DCs,
which allows DC physiological processing of the peptides, besides being
restricted by limited access to clinical grade proteins, has the drawback
of preferentially channelling peptides into the endocytic compartment,
thus predominantly stimulating CD4+ T cell responses. Use of SLPs
encompassing multiple MHC-I and MHC-II peptide specificity can
potentially overcome these problems. As an additional strategy, loading DCs with dying tumour cells, whole-tumour lysate or exosomes or
transfecting DCs with tumour-derived complementary DNA (cDNA) or
messenger RNA (mRNA) has been used. These options allow for natural processing and selection of multiple epitopes (known and unknown,
including unique mutant TAAs that are expressed by the individual
tumour) for MHC presentation, but antigen cross-presentation efficiency is uncertain. Transfection of tumour cDNA or mRNA into DCs
via electroporation has the disadvantage of channelling TAAs primarily into the MHC-I presentation pathway, thus limiting effective CD4+
T cell responses. Pulsing DCs with dying tumour cells generates epitopes
for both CD8+ and CD4+ T cell cross-presentation. In addition, killing
tumour cells for cancer vaccine preparation with agents causing immunogenic death provides additional immunogenic and danger signals for
DC activation and maturation (e.g. heat shock proteins, calreticulin or

28

Melief et al.

TLR ligands). However, by widening the spectra of TAAs against which
immune responses are elicited, whole-tumour-proteome-based vaccines
have an increased risk of inducing autoimmune reactions to self-antigens
shared with healthy tissues.
The level of DC maturation/activation to reach ex vivo is also a critical
factor. In DC-based vaccines, the goal is to partially activate antigenloaded DCs and differentiate them only to the point that they acquire LN
migratory capacity and become responsive to full-activation (licensing)
stimuli in vivo, once they reach the LNs, where they can then prime
cognate T cells.
Finally, the administration route of antigen-loaded DCs has to be considered for the induction of effective T cell immune responses. Although
intranodal injection is the most efficient way to deliver DCs into secondary lymphoid organs, it is still unknown whether overloading this
tissue with large amounts of DCs really increases immune responses in
humans. Thus far, s.c. and intradermal injections have been the most
widely used modalities to administer DCs, because of the easy access
of DCs to the regional LNs and more efficient induction of protective
immunological memory compared with i.v. DC delivery.
Great interest and effort have been directed toward DC-based vaccines to
immunise against cancer and results from these studies have been instrumental in clarifying the mechanisms underlying efficacy of active immunotherapy against established tumours.
Clinical Results
Numerous DC-based vaccines have been tested in clinical trials, with
promising safety and efficacy profiles. DCs loaded with TAA cocktails
achieved clinical benefit associated with tumour-specific immune
responses in advanced melanoma patients and confirmed the relevance
of co-activating CD4+ T helper cells to promote cytotoxic CD8+ T cell
responses in patients. The most relevant example in this vaccine category
is Sipuleucel-T for the treatment of hormone-refractory prostate cancer
patients. This vaccine has been the first active cancer immunotherapy to
gain regulatory approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
1.3 Vaccines (Dendritic Cell Vaccines, Peptide Vaccines, DNA Vaccines,
RNA Vaccines, Oncolytic Viruses)

29

upon demonstration of a median survival improvement of 4.1 months
and a death risk reduction of 22.5% in a randomised, double-blind phase
III trial. Sipuleucel-T is generated by culturing autologous PB mononuclear cells (PBMCs) with the prostate cancer antigen prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) fused to GM-CSF as an adjuvant for APC antigen uptake
and activation. This strategy partially reduces the difficulties associated
with DC-based vaccine production, as it does not require the generation of DCs and instead uses APCs naturally present in patients’ PBMC
samples. This procedure has been demonstrated to increase intra-tumour
infiltration of PAP-specific T cells. Sipuleucel-T is currently under investigation as a monotherapy or in combination with hormone therapy in
prostate cancer patients in phase II and III trials. A similar strategy was
previously employed to immunise cancer patients against mutant KRAS
and p53. In this case, SLPs encompassing patient-specific mutations in
KRAS and p53 were used to pulse patient-derived PBMCs, which were
administered i.v. in vivo upon irradiation. This strategy, which somehow
pioneered the current concept of vaccination against tumour-associated
neoantigens, showed impressive clinical results in patients developing
specific immune responses.
DC-based whole-tumour cell vaccines also demonstrated clinical efficacy in advanced cancer patients. As an example, autologous DCs pulsed
with whole lysate from three allogeneic melanoma cell lines (TRIMEL)
induced immune activation associated with increased survival and disease
stabilisation in most of the treated metastatic melanoma (MM) patients.
Interestingly, in a phase II trial with MM patients, DCs pulsed with autologous melanoma-derived antigens showed superior anti-tumour activity
compared with the same irradiated whole-tumour cells, further substantiating the key role of proper DC activation for efficient development of
anti-tumour immunity. In a pilot study with 18 relapsed indolent B cell
lymphoma patients, it was shown that potent anti-tumour activity coupled
with multifaceted immune activation upon vaccination with autologous
DCs pulsed with apoptotic bodies generated by inducing immunogenic cell
death in autologous tumour cells (Di Nicola et al, 2009). Importantly, this
whole-tumour cell-based vaccine could activate T cell responses against the
malignant B cell-associated immunoglobulin idiotype in responder patients.

30

Melief et al.

The use of autologous DCs transfected to express TAAs and immunostimulatory molecules has also shown therapeutic immune responses
in clinical trials. Administration of autologous DCs modified with a
pox vector encoding the TAA’s carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and
mucin 1 (MUC1) (PANVAC™) reduced recurrence and prolonged survival in tumour-resected disease-free colorectal cancer patients. Coelectroporation of DCs with different mRNA molecules encoding one
melanoma-associated antigen (tyrosinase, MAGE-A3, MAGE-C2 or
gp100), CD40L, CD70 and a constitutively active isoform of TLR4
(TriMixDC-MEL) safely and effectively induced tumour-specific CD8+
T cell responses in advanced melanoma patients. A fully personalised
vaccine generated with autologous DCs co-electroporated with amplified tumour RNA and synthetic CD40L RNA (AGS-003) was tested in
metastatic renal cell carcinoma in combination with the tyrosine kinase
inhibitor sunitinib. This strategy was well tolerated and achieved durable responses associated with CD8+ T cell activation. A phase II trial
comparing AGS-003 + sunitinib versus sunitinib alone is ongoing
(NCT01582672).

Peptide Vaccines
Peptides derived from TAAs have been widely tested in clinical trials to
immunise against cancer. The understanding of the minimal rules that
allow peptides to bind to MHC-I opened up the design of peptide-based
vaccines. MHC-I binds short peptides (8–10 amino acids long), whose
N- and C-terminal residues serve to anchor the peptide-binding groove
through hydrophobic interactions in a way that can be computationally
predicted. MHC-II binds peptides with different length variants (11–30
amino acids long) and the prediction of MHC-II-restricted peptides is
less efficient. In cancer vaccine manufacturing, both short peptides with
high MHC-I binding affinity or long peptides encompassing multiple
epitopes for both MHC-I and MHC-II binding have been exploited. The
administration route of peptide vaccines is particularly relevant, as the
peptides need to reach DC-rich sites for proper immunisation.

1.3 Vaccines (Dendritic Cell Vaccines, Peptide Vaccines, DNA Vaccines,
RNA Vaccines, Oncolytic Viruses)

31

Vaccination with short peptide sequences, predicted to bind patient-specific MHC-I, has been tested in many clinical trials with poor success,
for the following reasons:
1. Short peptides bind MHC-I exogenously on all nucleated cells, which
causes peptides to bind to a large majority of cells that lack co-stimulatory molecules and may therefore induce antigen-specific tolerance.
2. Short peptides rapidly distribute throughout the body and may therefore lead to antigen presentation outside vaccine-draining LNs in the
absence of an adjuvant.
3. MHC-I-binding peptides stimulate only CD8+ T cells, leading to
suboptimal and short-lived CD8+ T cell activation in the absence of
CD4+ T cell help.
In contrast, vaccination with SLPs has shown much more robust CD4+
and CD8+ T cell response induction against both cancer-testis antigens
(such as NY-ESO-1) and viral antigens (such as human papillomavirus
[HPV]16 E6/E7). SLP vaccination relies on SLP processing by professional APCs for antigen presentation in both MHC-I and MHC-II molecules. In the case of HPV16 E6/E7, the need for MHC characterisation/
selection has been avoided by incorporating a set of 13 long peptides,
representing the complete sequence of the oncogenic HPV16 proteins
E6 and E7, ensuring that all possible CD4+ and CD8+ T cell epitopes in
this sequence of 256 amino acids are processed by DCs in vaccinated
patients. Indeed, all patients have been shown to respond to this SLP
vaccine, so the use of SLPs does not necessarily require the prediction
of patient-specific MHC-restricted epitopes and allows for incorporation
of powerful adjuvants, such as TLR ligands, thus coupling DC targeting with simultaneous DC activation. However, potential competition for
MHC binding among the different peptides incorporated into polyvalent
vaccines must be considered. This may be avoided by injection of no
more than six or seven SLPs in a single i.m. or s.c. site (Kenter et al,
2008).
Technical Procedures Involved
GMP production of SLPs followed by freeze drying and cryopreservation is needed for vaccination with SLPs. Shortly before vaccination, the

32

Melief et al.

lyophilised peptides are dissolved in an appropriate solvent, mixed or
emulsified with adjuvant and injected i.m. or s.c.
Clinical Results
A global analysis of all the studies with peptide vaccines carried out in
MM patients at the National Cancer Institute (NCI) showed very limited
therapeutic effects, with an overall objective response rate of 2.9%. Most,
if not all, of these studies were unfortunately conducted with short peptides representing exact MHC-I-binding sequences, a suboptimal vaccine
platform (see above). Moreover, most of these trials were performed with
sequences derived from differentiation antigens or cancer-testis antigens,
against which the T cell repertoire may be blunted by central tolerance.
Also, in these studies no treatment with immunomodulators was applied,
further reducing the chances of clinical benefit as argued at the beginning
of this chapter. Peptide vaccines have continued to be assessed in patients,
with some vaccines reaching evaluation in phase III clinical trials.
In MM patients, vaccines based on gp100 peptides and the water-inoil adjuvant Montanide have been tested in phase III trials in combination with high-dose IL-2 or the anti-CTLA-4 antibody (Ab) ipilimumab.
Not surprisingly, based on the use of short peptides and a possibly tolerant T cell repertoire, these vaccines did not show significant clinical
improvement and the therapeutic effects were not associated with the
development of gp100-specific immunity, suggesting that gp100 in that
formulation is not an effective vaccine. Tecemotide, an anti-MUC1
lipopeptide-based vaccine, has been studied in advanced non-small
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Results from a phase III study indicated improved clinical benefit in patients who had previously received
concurrent chemoradiotherapy. However, evaluation of tecemotide in
further phase III trials failed to confirm these results (NCT01015443,
NCT02049151). GV1001, a vaccine based on a 16-amino-acid-long
peptide encompassing the active site of human telomerase reverse transcriptase and GM-CSF, has achieved promising results in early phase
studies with advanced NSCLC and pancreatic cancer patients. However,
further development in phase III trials produced unconvincing results
(NCT01579188). Again, telomerase is a self-molecule and specific
1.3 Vaccines (Dendritic Cell Vaccines, Peptide Vaccines, DNA Vaccines,
RNA Vaccines, Oncolytic Viruses)

33

T cells may be thymically deleted and GM-CSF, although capable of
attracting immature DCs, may not be an ideal adjuvant in this setting.
Immunisation against mutant oncoproteins or viral antigens with multiepitope vaccines (either peptide mixtures or long peptides) seems to represent a more effective strategy based on results from early phase trials.
Vaccination with mutant KRAS peptides and GM-CSF followed by surgical resection was effective in inducing specific immune responses and prolonging survival in pancreatic cancer patients. A vaccine based on a cocktail of HPV16 E6 and E7 synthetic peptides induced frequent regression
in patients with premalignant high-grade vulvar intraepithelial neoplastic
lesions in association with the induction of specific immune responses.
The same vaccine proved ineffective and significantly less immunogenic
in patients with recurrent cervical cancer, in agreement with the profound
immunosuppression in the setting of established cancer. However, when
this vaccine was combined with timed standard-of-care chemotherapy
consisting of carboplatin and paclitaxel, excellent immunogenicity was
observed in patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer. The
mechanism was shown to be depletion of immunosuppressive myeloid
cells and synergy of the platinum compound with tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) released from tumour-specific T cells (van der Sluis et
al, 2015; Welters et al, 2016). Recent data indicate that this combination
therapy induces strong T cell responses against the vaccine associated with
prolonged overall survival (Melief et al, in preparation). The same vaccine
also doubled the overall response rate in patients with incurable HPV16+
oropharyngeal cancer when combined with the anti-PD-1 nivolumab (Massarelli et al, 2018). Recently, a vaccine based on SLPs harbouring mutant
sequences predicted to bind to MHC-I showed strong immunogenicity and
reduced disease recurrences in melanoma patients with high recurrence
risk following surgery. Interestingly, patients who relapsed responded to a
subsequent anti-PD-1 treatment (Ott et al, 2017).

DNA Vaccines
DNA-based vaccines are a straightforward approach to immunise against
TAAs. However, they are generally poorly immunogenic, and DNA
encoding xenogenic antigens or antigens fused with adjuvant molecules

34

Melief et al.

have been exploited to more efficiently break tolerance against TAAs.
Accordingly, therapeutic DNA vaccines have achieved the greatest success in the treatment of virus-driven cancers, such as cervical intraepithelial neoplasia lesions caused by high-risk HPV16 or HPV18.
Technical Procedures Involved
Because DNA has to be transcribed to RNA and then translated into
protein, a highly efficient procedure must be used to ensure that enough
DNA reaches cells in which these processes occur. Electroporation and
particle-mediated epidermal delivery (PMED) appear to serve this purpose. DNA vaccines use plasmids of bacterial origin and, as such, have
the built-in adjuvant CpG, a TLR9 ligand.
Clinical Results
DNA vaccines delivered by electroporation have induced robust T cell
responses to the E6 and E7 proteins of high-risk HPV16 and 18. Moreover,
in a randomised phase II trial, more high-grade cervical epithelial neoplasia lesions regressed following HPV DNA vaccination than spontaneously
(Trimble et al, 2015). Vaccination with xenogenic and human gp100encoding plasmid DNA by means of either i.m. injection or PMED has
also been demonstrated to be safe and capable of inducing specific T cell
responses in melanoma patients (Ginsberg et al, 2010; Yuan et al, 2013).

RNA vaccines
RNA vaccines encoding TAAs are currently being developed in several
laboratories. One particularly efficient RNA delivery platform is encapsulation in DC-targeting liposomes.
Technical Procedures Involved
Naked RNA is generally injected i.m. or into LNs, whereas RNA-encapsulated liposomes are injected into LNs or i.v. to achieve optimal loading and processing by DCs for T cell cross-presentation of the antigens.
In addition, antigen-encoding RNA can be codon-optimised to increase
protein production. RNA vaccines have built-in adjuvants such as TLR3
ligand and TLR7/8 ligand.
1.3 Vaccines (Dendritic Cell Vaccines, Peptide Vaccines, DNA Vaccines,
RNA Vaccines, Oncolytic Viruses)

35

Clinical Results
A self-adjuvanted RNA-based vaccine (CV9103) encoding the antigens PSA, PSCA, PSMA and STEAP1 was well tolerated and induced
immune responses against multiple epitopes in a phase I/IIa study with
advanced prostate cancer patients (Kübler et al, 2015). Very recently,
personalised neo-epitope-containing liposomal RNA vaccines generated
specific immune responses in advanced melanoma patients (Sahin et al,
2017), similar to SLP vaccines (Ott et al, 2017).

Oncolytic Viruses
Oncolytic virotherapy, based on the use of different viruses, such as
modified herpes viruses, as self-expanding bio-therapeutics that selectively infect and kill cancer cells while sparing normal tissues, represents a promising immunotherapeutic approach (Lichty et al, 2014).
Killing of tumour cells upon virus infection generates a local inflammatory environment that results in tumour antigen release and recruitment
of immune cells, which in turn contribute to the amplification of antitumour immunity.
Technical Procedures Involved
This approach couples the direct anti-tumour cytotoxic effects of viruses
replicating within malignant cells and the induction of an anti-viral
immune response, which is expected to drive immune effector functions toward the tumour site, thus increasing the probability of a reaction against the released TAAs. To improve the immunological activity
of oncolytic viruses, they can be engineered to express pro-inflammatory
molecules as immune adjuvant.
Clinical Results
T-VEC (talimogene laherparepvec), a genetically engineered herpes
simplex virus to express GM-CSF, was the first oncolytic virus therapy
approved by the FDA for the treatment of unresectable MM, based
on results of the OPTIM trial that compared T-VEC with GM-CSF in
patients with advanced unresectable melanoma.

36

Melief et al.

Coxsackievirus A21 (CVA21), a picornavirus with oncolytic potential, has
been tested for the treatment of different solid cancers and has shown both
local and distant clinical responses (Andtbacka et al, 2015), further demonstrating the therapeutic potential of in situ vaccination with oncolytic viruses.

Predictive and/or Prognostic Biomarkers of
(Potential) Clinical Relevance
Thus far, the following parameters have been found to correlate with
clinical activity of anti-cancer vaccines:
n
Tumour burden: patients with less-advanced diseases are more
likely to benefit from active immunotherapies (Hale et al, 2012)
n
Immune responses, in particular T cell responses: clinical trials
with therapeutic cancer vaccines have shown that development of
anti-tumour immune responses correlates with improved clinical outcomes (Constantino et al, 2017)
n
Immune gene signatures (e.g. IFN-γ response pathway), as a
measure of immune activation that takes into account the complex
molecular network of the tumour immune microenvironment
n
Baseline expression level of vaccine-targeted antigen and MHC
molecules in tumour cells: target antigens must be expressed and
properly presented on MHC in tumour cells for efficient T cell recognition and killing of malignant cells

Potential Future Developments
Clinical results from phase III trials with cancer vaccines have, overall,
shown limited clinical benefit. The flaws in vaccine design and lack of
co-treatment signalled above are likely to have contributed to this.
Apart from these previously discussed flaws in cancer vaccine design and
application, efficacy of appropriate cancer vaccination/immunomodulation can be thwarted by additional tumour immune evasion mechanisms:
n
Down-regulation or loss of TAAs and MHC molecules in tumour
cells
1.3 Vaccines (Dendritic Cell Vaccines, Peptide Vaccines, DNA Vaccines,
RNA Vaccines, Oncolytic Viruses)

37

n

n
n
n

Immunosuppression (indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase [IDO], myeloidderived suppressor cells [MDSCs], M2 macrophages and regulatory
T cells [Tregs])
Poor intra-tumour T cell infiltration
Tumour-specific T cell anergy/exhaustion
Up-regulation of immune checkpoints and specific ligands in the
tumour microenvironment (CTLA-4, PD-1, programmed death-ligand
1 [PD-L1], T cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain 3 [TIM-3], lymphocyte-activation gene 3 [LAG-3], etc.)


Nevertheless, the recent clinical successes with immune checkpoint blockade therapy have formally demonstrated that immunotherapy can cure
patients with advanced cancer. These results may be attributed to concurrent inhibition of key molecules regulating immunosuppression (CTLA-4
and PD-1 pathway) and activation of multiple immune responses against
non-self-mutant tumour-associated neoantigens. This information has
provided renewed interest in pursuing similar or even better results with
active immunotherapy. Based on the novel insights obtained from a variety
of research lines, including treatment with checkpoint blockade, chemoimmunotherapy, IDO inhibition, Treg depletion and use of beneficial
immunomodulators, we can now rationally improve cancer vaccine design
toward increased anti-tumour efficacy based on the following directions:
1.	Personalised vaccines against tumour-associated neoantigens (to
avoid central tolerance-mediated elimination of specific highaffinity T cells).
	Immune peptidome analysis of MHC-bound peptides, tumour wholeexome and RNA sequencing coupled with computational prediction of
immunogenic peptides binding to patient-specific MHC haplotypes can
be used to identify new non-self tumour-specifc antigens for improved
cancer vaccine design. Initial clinical results are promising, and this
personalised immunotherapy approach might soon become an affordable reality in clinical practice (Ott et al, 2017; Sahin et al, 2017).
2.	Combination with immunomodulatory agents: develop rational
combinations with strategies that reduce immunosuppression/
activate tumour immunity in patients with established cancers.

38

Melief et al.

If neoantigen-based vaccines can bypass central tolerance, they still have
to work against peripheral tolerance and tumour-immune escape mechanisms (exhaustion/anergy and immunosuppression). Therefore, it is very
likely that, even when generated with neoantigens, cancer vaccines will
not be able to achieve major clinical results as monotherapy. Strategies
that inactivate the most important immunosuppressive mechanisms and/or
stimulate cytotoxic response may be optimally combined with cancer
vaccines. The increased availability of clinically approved agents with
immunomodulatory functions offers new opportunities for optimal combination strategies to potentiate the efficacy of active immunotherapy.
In addition, the progressive understanding of homeostatic mechanisms
that control strength and duration of immune responses together with
the renewed interest in assessing immune functions of conventional anticancer agents have led to the identification of many precision drugs that
can favour immune activation, such as:
n
Immunogenic chemotherapy: thalidomide, cisplatin; carboplatin +
paclitaxel (van der Sluis et al, 2015; Welters et al, 2016).
n
Radiotherapy (Finkelstein et al, 2012; Formenti and Demaria, 2009;
Hasumi et al, 2011).
n
Checkpoint blockade: preclinical evidence (Curran et al, 2010; Fu
et al, 2014; Hurwitz et al, 1998; Mkrtichyan et al, 2013; Wada et al,
2013); clinical evidence (Hodi et al, 2003; Yuan et al, 2011).
n
Immunostimulatory Abs targeting TNFR family members: CD40,
OX40, GITR, 4-1BB (Tacken et al, 2007).
n
Abs against immunosuppressive cytokines or cytokine receptors.
n
Pro-inflammatory cytokines (γC cytokines: IL-2, IL-7, IL-15).
Despite the availability of a myriad of new agents, there is a renewed
interest in the use of vaccination as a first step to boost a robust anticancer immune response. ‘Proper integration of immunotherapeutic and
anti-neoplastic approaches may thus be key to overcome these limitations and improve cancer control’ (Zappasodi et al, 2018).

1.3 Vaccines (Dendritic Cell Vaccines, Peptide Vaccines, DNA Vaccines,
RNA Vaccines, Oncolytic Viruses)

39

Declaration of Interest:
Dr Melief is Chief Scientific Officer of ISA Pharmaceuticals, a biotech
company developing synthetic long peptide vaccines. As such he receives
a salary and participates in a management participation plan.
Dr Zappasodi has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Garassino has declared grants/supports from Merck Sharp & Dohme
and Eli Lilly; advisory board/consultancy for: Inivata, Merck Sharp &
Dohme, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Roche,
AstraZeneca, Novartis, Celgene, MedImmune, Pfizer, Takeda and Ignyta.
Dr Di Nicola has reported no potential conflicts of interest.

Further Reading
Andtbacka RH, Kaufman HL, Collichio F, et al. Talimogene Laherparepvec
improves durable response rate in patients with advanced melanoma. J Clin
Oncol 2015; 33:2780–2788.
Constantino J, Gomes C, Falcão A, et al. Dendritic cell-based immunotherapy: a
basic review and recent advances. Immunol Res 2017; 65:798–810.
Curran MA, Montalvo W, Yagita H, Allison JP. PD-1 and CTLA-4 combination blockade expands infiltrating T cells and reduces regulatory T and
myeloid cells within B16 melanoma tumors. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2010;
107:4275–4280.
Di Nicola M, Zappasodi R, Carlo-Stella C, et al. Vaccination with autologous
tumor-loaded dendritic cells induces clinical and immunologic responses in
indolent B-cell lymphoma patients with relapsed and measurable disease: a
pilot study. Blood 2009; 113:18–27.
Finkelstein SE, Iclozan C, Bui MM, et al. Combination of external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) with intratumoral injection of dendritic cells as neo-adjuvant
treatment of high-risk soft tissue sarcoma patients. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol
Phys 2012; 82:924–932.
Formenti SC, Demaria S. Systemic effects of local radiotherapy. Lancet Oncol
2009; 10:718–726.
Fu J, Malm IJ, Kadayakkara DK, et al. Preclinical evidence that PD1 blockade
cooperates with cancer vaccine TEGVAX to elicit regression of established
tumors. Cancer Res 2014; 74:4042–4052.
Ginsberg BA, Gallardo HF, Rasalan TS, et al. Immunologic response to xenogeneic
gp100 DNA in melanoma patients: comparison of particle-mediated epidermal
delivery with intramuscular injection. Clin Cancer Res 2010; 16:4057–4065.

40

Melief et al.

Glisson B, Massarelli E, William WN, et al. 1136O. Nivolumab and ISA 101
HPV vaccine in incurable HPV-16+ cancer. Ann Oncol 2017; 28(Issue
suppl_5):mdx376.002.
Hale DF, Clifton GT, Sears AK, et al. Cancer vaccines: should we be targeting
patients with less aggressive disease? Expert Rev Vaccines 2012; 11:721–731.
Hasumi K, Aoki Y, Watanabe R, et al. Therapeutic response in patients with
advanced malignancies treated with combined dendritic cell-activated T
cell based immunotherapy and intensity-modulated radiotherapy. Cancers
(Basel) 2011; 3:2223–2242.
Hodi FS, Mihm MC, Soiffer RJ, et al. Biologic activity of cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 antibody blockade in previously vaccinated metastatic melanoma and ovarian carcinoma patients. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
2003; 100:4712–4717.
Hurwitz AA, Yu TF, Leach DR, Allison JP. CTLA-4 blockade synergizes with
tumor-derived granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor for treatment of an experimental mammary carcinoma. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
1998; 95:10067–10071.
Kenter GG, Welters MJ, Valentijn AR, et al. Phase I immunotherapeutic trial
with long peptides spanning the E6 and E7 sequences of high-risk human
papillomavirus 16 in end-stage cervical cancer patients shows low toxicity
and robust immunogenicity. Clin Cancer Res 2008; 14:169–177.
Kübler H, Scheel B, Gnad-Vogt U, et al. Self-adjuvanted mRNA vaccination in
advanced prostate cancer patients: a first-in-man phase I/IIa study. J Immunother Cancer 2015; 3:26.
Kurts C, Robinson BW, Knolle PA. Cross-priming in health and disease. Nat Rev
Immunol 2010; 10:403–414.
Lichty BD, Breitbach CJ, Stojdl DF, Bell JC. Going viral with cancer immunotherapy. Nat Rev Cancer 2014; 14:559–567.
Massarelli E, William W, Johnson F, et al. Combining nivolumab immune checkpoint blockade and ISA101 tumor-specific vaccine in patients with incurable
human papillomavirus16-related cancers. JAMA Oncol 2018. In Press.
Melero I, Gaudernack G, Gerritsen W, et al. Therapeutic vaccines for cancer: an
overview of clinical trials. Nat Rev Clin Oncol 2014; 11:509–524.
Melief CJ, van Hall T, Arens R, et al. Therapeutic cancer vaccines. J Clin Invest
2015; 125:3401–3412.
Mellman I, Coukos G, Dranoff G. Cancer immunotherapy comes of age. Nature
2011; 480:480–489.
Mkrtichyan M, Chong N, Abu Eid R, et al. Anti-PD-1 antibody significantly
increases therapeutic efficacy of Listeria monocytogenes (Lm)-LLO immunotherapy. J Immunother Cancer 2013; 1:15.
1.3 Vaccines (Dendritic Cell Vaccines, Peptide Vaccines, DNA Vaccines,
RNA Vaccines, Oncolytic Viruses)

41

Ott PA, Hu Z, Keskin DB, et al. An immunogenic personal neoantigen vaccine
for patients with melanoma. Nature 2017; 547:217–221.
Romero P, Banchereau J, Bhardwaj N, et al. The Human Vaccines Project:
A roadmap for cancer vaccine development. Sci Transl Med 2016; 8:334ps9.
Sahin U, Derhovanessian E, Miller M, et al. Personalized RNA mutanome vaccines mobilize poly-specific therapeutic immunity against cancer. Nature
2017; 547:222–226.
Tacken PJ, de Vries IJ, Torensma R, Figdor CG. Dendritic-cell immunotherapy:
from ex vivo loading to in vivo targeting. Nat Rev Immunol 2007; 7:790–802.
Trimble CL, Morrow MP, Kraynyak KA, et al. Safety, efficacy, and immunogenicity of VGX-3100, a therapeutic synthetic DNA vaccine targeting human
papillomavirus 16 and 18 E6 and E7 proteins for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 2/3: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2b trial.
Lancet 2015; 386:2078–2088.
van der Burg SH, Arens R, Ossendorp F, et al. Vaccines for established cancer:
overcoming the challenges posed by immune evasion. Nat Rev Cancer 2016;
16:219–233.
van der Sluis TC, van Duikeren S, Huppelschoten S, et al. Vaccine-induced
tumor necrosis factor-producing T cells synergize with cisplatin to promote
tumor cell death. Clin Cancer Res 2015; 21:781–794.
Wada S, Jackson CM, Yoshimura K, et al. Sequencing CTLA-4 blockade with
cell-based immunotherapy for prostate cancer. J Transl Med 2013; 11:89.
Welters MJ, van der Sluis TC, van Meir H, et al. Vaccination during myeloid cell
depletion by cancer chemotherapy fosters robust T cell responses. Sci Transl
Med 2016; 8:334ra52.
Yuan J, Ginsberg B, Page D, et al. CTLA-4 blockade increases antigen-specific
CD8(+) T cells in prevaccinated patients with melanoma: three cases. Cancer
Immunol Immunother 2011; 60:1137–1146.
Yuan J, Ku GY, Adamow M, et al. Immunologic responses to xenogeneic tyrosinase DNA vaccine administered by electroporation in patients with malignant melanoma. J Immunother Cancer 2013; 1:20.
Zappasodi R, Merghoub T, Wolchok JD. Emerging concepts for immune checkpoint blockade-based combination therapies. Cancer Cell 2018; 33:581–598.

42

Melief et al.

1.4 Biomarkers for Immunotherapy
J. R. Gosney1
A. Haragan1
G. M. Laing2
K. M. Kerr2
Department of Cellular Pathology, Royal Liverpool University Hospital and
Institute of Translational Medicine, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK
2
Department of Pathology, Aberdeen University Medical School, Aberdeen
Royal Infirmary, Foresterhill, UK
1

Introduction
Biomarkers are biological characteristics which are associated with
behavioural properties of disease processes. For malignant diseases,
biomarkers are either prognostic of disease outcome, independent of
treatment or predictive of treatment response. In the context of immunooncology (IO), predictive biomarkers are the main focus but there are
also relevant prognostic issues.

Biological Background for Biomarkers in
Immunotherapy
There are multiple mechanisms and parameters that appear to determine
the outcome of tumour–immune interactions. Some of these overlap,
some appear distinct and there is considerable variation between different
tumours and patients. An approach to rationalise the best way of determining how best to treat a patient based on current and plausible future
biomarkers has been explored in a ‘cancer immunogram’, which proposes
a dynamic approach in adding biomarkers as more data become available.
Within this proposed approach there are seven broad categories where biomarkers are potentially found. These are summarised as follows:

43

(1) The ‘foreignness’ of the tumour
(2) Tumour inflammation
(3) The presence or absence of immune checkpoints
(4) Soluble immune inhibitors
(5) Inhibitory tumour metabolism
(6) The general immune status of the patient, and
(7)	The question of whether or not the tumour cells (TCs) are susceptible
to a re-invigorated immune response
This is an excellent overview of what are a relatively limited number of
trial-proven biomarkers currently in use, as well as a larger number of
potential biomarkers which have still to find their clinical utility. This
chapter focusses on biomarkers for the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) in solid tumours and the discussion will concentrate on those
biomarkers which are already in widespread clinical use or for which
there are emerging trial data. Most available data concern non-small cell
lung cancer (NSCLC) and melanoma.
The immune system has the ability to recognise foreign, non-self antigens (epitopes) and mount a specific immune response through antibody-directed humoural and T cell-driven cellular immunity. Less antigen-specific responses also occur involving natural killer (NK) cells and
macrophages, among other cell types. T cell- and macrophage-driven
responses are very important in anti-tumour immunity. The most important source of neoantigens is probably through gene mutations, leading
to the production of abnormal, new proteins. It is possible, however, that
other aberrant metabolic events in TCs could lead to structurally abnormal proteins which may appear ‘non-self’ to the immune system. Many
solid tumours have a high mutational burden, especially lung cancers
and malignant melanoma, related to tobacco and ultraviolet light carcinogenesis. A high tumour mutation burden (TMB) infers, but does not
guarantee, a high neoantigen load. High antigenicity infers the possibility of high immunogenicity, but this is also not guaranteed. These steps
may fail in malignant cells for various reasons. There is evidence that
when neoantigens are clonal rather than subclonal, they are more likely

44

Gosney et al.

to be associated with better outcome from immune checkpoint blockade
(ICB); this infers more efficient antigenicity. Immunogenicity infers a
specific immune response generated against these neoantigens but this
may not occur.
Even if the immune response occurs, and the specific T cell immunity
is available and present in the tumour, it may not be effective. A range
of regulatory mechanisms (cellular or molecular) may control and
negate the immune response at the point of efficacy in the tumour
microenvironment (TME) – several of these are incorporated into the
‘cancer immunogram’, including checkpoints, soluble immune inhibitors and inhibitory tumour metabolism leading to an immune-suppressive microenvironment. Importantly, among these mechanisms are negative immune-regulatory checkpoints, ligand-receptor moieties which,
when bound, switch off specific immune cell activity.
That clinically apparent tumours can evolve, while bearing a high cellular
mutational load, highlights the existence of mechanisms which allow
TCs to avoid antigen-specific T cell killing. As described, the reasons for
this escape in any one tumour are potentially numerous. This creates the
potential for several concurrent biomarker approaches, not only addressing why the tumour may escape an immune response, but also providing
data on the likelihood of an immune response actually being available.
Among these immune inhibitory mechanisms, the interactions of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4)/CD80/86 and programmed cell
death protein 1 (PD-1)/programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) as negative immune checkpoints are important in a wide range of human solid
tumours and are now also important targets for ICIs.
This simplified description of the tumour immune response and its regulation encapsulates its three essential components. These are:
n
TC immunogenicity rendering the TCs visible to the immune system
n
The successful generation of a specific cellular response to those
immunogenic TCs, and
n
Active mechanisms to escape, avoid or negate that immune response,
either within the TME or lymphoid tissues
1.4 Biomarkers for Immunotherapy

45

These three components also provide the rationale for biomarker
approaches which have been most pursued in IO: TMB, tumour inflammation and immune checkpoint ligand expression, specifically the cellular expression of PD-L1. The other factors alluded to in the Immunogram could be considered as environmental factors. This does not mean
to say that they are less important, but there is less trial-based evidence,
so far, to support their use. Serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels
are a surrogate for an immune suppressive tumour metabolic environment and may prove to be a valuable measure, especially in melanoma
and response to anti-CTLA-4; measures of general immune status could
be helpful but there is conflicting, and limited, evidence to support
their use now. The use of immunohistochemistry (IHC) to determine
PD-L1 expression within tumours is by far the most widely developed
biomarker for ICI therapy and this will be considered first.
PD-L1 Immunohistochemistry
The only biomarker currently in widespread use for selecting patients
for anti-PD-1 axis agents in the treatment of NSCLC is the expression of
PD-L1 on the surface of TCs and the immune cells that infiltrate it. The
current status of various drugs with their trial-validated assays is given in
Table 1. These assays have also been used with variable benefit with various drugs in different indications in melanoma, head and neck squamous
cell carcinoma, and urothelial and renal cell carcinoma.
These differences in the requirement for testing and of ‘cut-offs’ derive
from trial data showing a variable relationship between level of PD-L1
expression and sensitivity to IO drugs. There is, nevertheless, in most
trials a direct relationship between the level of PD-L1 expression, which
is a biological continuous variable, and the likelihood of the tumour
responding to an IO agent, although this is by no means a constant correlation and, as a result, no absolute consensus on the use of PD-L1 expression as a biomarker across tumour types and anti PD-1/PD-L1 agents has
been achieved. The choice of cut-off is driven by a number of factors and
will not create an absolute distinction between ‘responders’ and ‘nonresponders’. Whether used as a companion or a complementary test, the
outcome does provide clinically useful information.

46

Gosney et al.

TCs: ≥25%

pharmDx 73-10 TCs: ≥1%

N/A

N/A

N/A

None

N/A
N/A

TCs ≥1%

None

PD-L1 level
for 2nd line

TCs: ≥50%

N/A

PD-L1 level
for 1st line

Not approved for avelumab in any
setting

Not approved for durvalumab in
any setting

Complementary: testing not required
US: SQ and NSQ NSCLC

Companion: testing required
US/EU: SQ and NSQ NSCLC

Complementary: testing not required
28-8: US/EU: NSQ NSCLC
SP263: EU: NSQ NSCLC

Diagnostic status

Not available

Not available

US: all patients eligible

US/EU: ≥50% (previously
untreated); ≥1% (previously treated)

US/EU: all patients eligible
EU: all patients eligible

Approved in vitro diagnostic
PD-L1 expression levels

Abbreviations: EU, European Union; IC, immune cell; N/A, not applicable; NSCLC, non-small cell lung cancer; NSQ, non-squamous; PD-L1, programmed death-ligand 1; SQ, squamous; TC,
tumour cell; US, United States.

**Ventana SP142 scored with the following cut-offs: TCs: TC0 <1%, TC1 ≥1%–<5%, TC2 ≥5%–<50%, TC3 ≥50%; ICs: IC0 <1%, IC1 ≥1%–<5%, IC2 ≥5%–<10%, IC3 ≥10%.

* All assays score cells at any intensity.

Avelumab

Ventana SP263

Durvalumab

TCs + ICs –
various**

Ventana SP142

Atezolizumab

TCs: ≥1%,
≥5%, ≥10%

pharmDx 22C3 TCs: ≥1%,
Ventana SP263 ≥50%

Ventana SP263

pharmDx 28-8

Cut-offs in
clinical trials

Pembrolizumab

Nivolumab

Bioassay*

Table 1 Approved and Investigational PD-L1 Diagnostic Assays in NSCLC

1.4 Biomarkers for Immunotherapy

47

Implementing PD-L1 testing presents a number of challenges, which can
be framed as four questions:
n
Which diagnostic test should be used?
n
How can accurate assessment be assured?
n
Which types of specimen can be used?
n
How should the results be reported?
Which diagnostic test should be used?
Each of the drugs currently available for treating NSCLC was developed
with its own diagnostic test. It is impractical for laboratories to carry
multiple testing platforms for essentially the same biomarker. Concerted
efforts in harmonising these tests has led to some welcome rationalisation (Table 1).
Studies reveal good correlation between the pharmDx 22C3, pharmDx
28-8 and Ventana SP263 assays, assessing expression on TCs. In contrast,
the Ventana SP142 assay reveals a higher threshold for PD-L1 expression
by TCs, but a higher sensitivity for immune cells. This assay can be positive
through tumour or immune cell expression (Table 1). Comparative data for
the pharmDx 73-10 assay are not yet available. The Ventana SP263 assay
is applicable to guiding the use of nivolumab and pembrolizumab as well
as of durvalumab, the drug for which it was originally developed.
How can accurate assessment be assured?
Assessing PD-L1 expression differs from most other IHC in its subtlety,
heterogeneous expression and confounding staining patterns in many
tumours. Relevant expression is the sometimes delicate delineation of
the cell membrane (Figure 1). Cytoplasmic expression is ignored. For all
assays except SP142, when used in NSCLC, only TCs are assessed – the
tumour proportion score (TPS) is expressed as a percentage. The Ventana
SP142 assay is more complex, since TPS and the area of tumour infiltrated by PD-L1-expressing immune cells are both assessed (Table 1).
Experience in reading PD-L1 tests in one tumour type will not necessarily be transferrable to other tumours, as the characteristics of both
tumours and PD-L1 expression may differ significantly.

48

Gosney et al.

Figure 1 PD-L1 immunohistochemistry. In this example, where the tumour proportion score is
well over 50%, some variation in intensity of membrane staining can be seen in tumour cells.
In the surrounding stroma there are some PD-L1-expressing immune cells. Courtesy: JR Gosney.

300µm

Abbreviation: PD-L1, programmed death-ligand 1.

Which types of specimen can be used?
A major shortcoming in the development of tests for assessing PD-L1
expression in clinical trials was the exclusion of ‘cytology’ specimens.
This led to the belief that only tissue biopsies can be used. There are anecdotal reports but little published evidence that alcohol fixation, commonly
used in many cytology laboratories, is deleterious to PD-L1 epitopes.
More data are required. Cytology is so integral to NSCLC diagnostics
that it will be difficult not to use such samples. Cytology samples do not
permit application of the immune cell staining rules for the SP142 assay.
Heterogeneity of PD-L1 expression within and between tumour deposits
and the possibility of sampling error, leading to unrepresentative PD-L1
scoring, is well appreciated. It is usually impossible to avoid this potential
problem in practice; generous or multiple biopsy specimens reduce its
influence, but obtaining these is not always practicable or even possible.
1.4 Biomarkers for Immunotherapy

49

Can pre-first-line chemotherapy (ChT) archived material be relied upon to
provide a result accurate enough to guide second-line therapy? Clearly, the
ideal specimen is the most recent, but re-biopsy is often not practical or ethical and, in clinical trials where this question was addressed, there was no
significant difference between ‘fresh’ and ‘archive’ material use. As a general
guide, there is evidence to suggest that archived specimens less than 3 years
old are suitable for analysis if no more recent material is available.
How should the results be reported?
Reporting of PD-L1 expression should include objective data with its
interpretation in context. It is important to state which diagnostic test
assay was used and whether at least 100 TCs were assessed – some
assays mandate a 50-cell minimum. An actual TPS is best reported
although sometimes, if the sample is challenging, an indication of which
range of TPS the sample falls into can be given.
Tumour Mutation Burden
The biological rationale for TMB or mutational load as a predictor of
response has been discussed already. It is a surrogate for tumour immunogenicity as it reflects neoantigen load.
There are several ways of assessing tumour mutational load. It may be
measured directly, through whole-exome sequencing, and expressed
as mutations per Mbase in DNA. It may be inferred by the number of
mutations found after large, targeted panel next-generation sequencing,
an approach which correlates with actual ‘whole’ mutational burden.
Specific factors associated with a higher likelihood of high mutational
prevalence, such as loss of function mutations in mismatch repair (MMR)
genes, microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) and DNA polymerase D1
(POLD1) and E (POLE) mutations, are interesting candidate biomarkers,
and have shown very effective enrichment for response to ICIs in some
tumour types such as colorectal and endometrial carcinomas. Common
mutations in NSCLC such as in KRAS and p53 seem to be associated
with more highly mutated disease. These, in turn, are associated with,
in lung cancer, a smoking history, and both this and evidence of tobacco
carcinogen-associated transversions are also biomarkers of interest.

50

Gosney et al.

TMB can predict response to the CTLA-4 inhibitor ipilimumab in melanoma, the PD-1 inhibitors pembrolizumab and nivolumab in NSCLC and
the PD-L1 inhibitor atezolizumab in NSCLC and urothelial carcinoma.
MMR and MSI-H can select patients for benefit from PD-1 axis inhibitors in a range of tumours including gastric and colorectal cancers, while
MSI-H has been approved for the use of pembrolizumab by the Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) as a biomarker independent of tumour type.
KRAS mutation and a smoking history are associated with benefit from
second-line nivolumab versus docetaxel in lung adenocarcinoma, while
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations, which are associated with a low TMB and a never smoking history, favour docetaxel.
There is no consensus about what defines a ‘high’ TMB. It has been
defined in a variety of different ways in different trials. The more
genome that has to be sequenced to estimate TMB, the less practical the
biomarker appears, at least with current technology, in terms of turnaround time, cost and possible feasibility. The prospect of a small number of targeted mutations to predict high TMB is very attractive, but this
surrogate for actual TMB is likely to be different depending on tumour
type. MSI-H is relatively frequent and an established biomarker in
colorectal carcinoma but is extremely uncommon in NSCLC, for example.
p53 and KRAS mutations are common in lung adenocarcinomas but not
so in melanoma. TMB or a surrogate has the potential to select patients
who might benefit from a range of ICIs which might be used currently
or in the future. It does not, however, inform about the actual inhibitory
mechanism(s) active in an individual tumour, which might be targeted by
appropriate therapy.
There is also another potential aspect to the mutational landscape in
tumours with respect to immunotherapy. While a high mutational burden
may present a relatively poor prognostic factor in many tumour types,
there is also emerging evidence that genomic alterations can predict the
possibility of hyper-progression of disease during PD-1/PD-L1 blockade. Data are few but MDM2/MDM4 amplification and some EGFR
alterations have been associated with risk of hyperprogression on immunotherapy. The molecular mechanisms and predictors of this phenomenon require further investigation.
1.4 Biomarkers for Immunotherapy

51

Tumour Inflammation
Immunotherapy using ICB will not work if there is no immune response
available to be released from an inhibited state. It is therefore completely intuitive that evidence of this immune response could be a useful
biomarker to predict response to such drugs. It is important that good
prognostic effects do not confound any predictive effect that a tumour
inflammation biomarker might have in the context of ICB. Tumour
inflammation has been assessed in many ways, from simple assessments
of tumour infiltrating immune cells (TIICs – mostly lymphocytes and
macrophages), microanatomical TIIC localisation in the tumour, and
detailed characterisation of these cells – CD3+ and CD8+ T cells, macrophages (CD68+), myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), inhibitory FoxP3+ T cells and Langerhans antigen-presenting cells (S100+).
The ‘immunoscore’ assessing CD3+ and CD8+ T cells in the tumour core
and invasive margin has bettered Tumour Node Metastasis (TNM) stage
as a prognostic factor, considered as a predictive biomarker in melanoma, gastric and breast cancer among others.
There is already evidence in melanoma that the effects of nivolumab and
ipilimumab are greater in inflamed tumours. Similar studies are ongoing in breast, colorectal, urothelial and other cancers including NSCLC.
In melanoma and NSCLC, immune-related gene expression signatures using mRNA profiling on tumour samples have been used with
some success as a way of enriching for ‘inflamed tumours’. Data have
been published on a number of mRNA-based expression signatures of
genes related to the activity and regulation of the immune response; the
interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) gene has been a consistent member of these
panels. These assessments have shown predictive value for response to
pembrolizumab, nivolumab and atezolizumab in different settings. In
the IMpower150 trial (first-line ChT plus bevacizumab with or without
atezolizumab in NSCLC), however, direct comparison of a three-gene
signature (PD-L1, IFN-γ and CXCL9) and PD-L1 IHC showed there was
no difference in terms of predictive power for outcome between these
two biomarker approaches. In other tumour types, the immune cells are
the focus of attention and more data are awaited. Another important factor, in terms of actual adoption in the clinic, will be the practicality of

52

Gosney et al.

implementation. If complex and expensive biomarker approaches are no
better than simple ones, it will be hard to justify their use.

Future IO Biomarker Strategies
Despite the interest in combining CTLA-4 or PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors with
other immunotherapies or with ChT to improve efficacy and patient inclusivity, it seems likely that biomarkers will continue to be required to select
patients in at least some indications. The CheckMate 026 trial is the first indication, at least in NSCLC, that combining biomarkers may improve patient
selection. This makes sense and combined biomarker approaches could be
used, provided there is clinical validation and the assays are practical.
New checkpoint targets such as T cell immunoglobulin and mucin
domain 3 (TIM-3) and lymphocyte-activation gene 3 (LAG-3) and other
regulators such as indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) are both potential targets and biomarkers for therapy, alone or in combination. These
and established target biomarkers such as PD-L1 may be considered primary IO biomarkers, since they represent an immune inhibitory mechanism which is being targeted. If the biomarker is truly absent and not
active in the tumour, these therapies are very unlikely to work. Biomarkers such as TMB and inflammation are secondary IO biomarkers whose
predictive power is likely independent of the drug/target being considered. They only predict a probability of an available immune response
that might be activated by blockade of inhibitory mechanisms. Emerging
biomarkers such as the gut microbiome, general immune status and an
inhibitory tumour metabolic environment could be seen as over-arching
conditional factors which may offset an effect of treatment, despite
more specific biomarkers suggesting checkpoint inhibition should work.
More data are required to allow us to understand how these additional
factors should be incorporated into any decision-making algorithm.

Conclusion
The need for biomarkers for IO will continue. Due to the multifaceted
nature of the tumour immune response, a single biomarker in this arena is
unlikely to satisfy clinical requirements for high selective performance.
1.4 Biomarkers for Immunotherapy

53

Dissatisfaction with biomarkers to date (mainly PD-L1 IHC) is somewhat
unjustified and reflects unrealistic expectations, but has driven attempts
to find alternatives. For different tumour types and different drugs, these
biomarkers are also likely to be variable. Although not perfect, the most
commonly used IO biomarker is PD-L1 IHC. This is relatively easy to
measure and building on this moderately performing biomarker should
be the way forward.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Gosney is a paid advisor to and speaker for Abbvie, Agilent,
AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Diaceutics,
Lilly & Co, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Novartis, Pfizer and Roche.
Dr Haragan has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Laing has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Kerr is a paid advisor to and speaker for Abbvie, AstraZeneca,
Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Lilly & Co, Merck Sharp
& Dohme, Merck Serono, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche and Roche Diagnostics.

Further Reading
Blank CU, Haanen JB, Ribas A, Schumacher TN. Cancer immunology. The
“cancer immunogram”. Science 2016; 352:658–660.
Chen DS, Mellman I. Elements of cancer immunity and the cancer-immune set
point. Nature 2017; 541:321–330.
Hirsch FR, McElhinny A, Stanforth D, et al. PD-L1 immunohistochemistry
assays for lung cancer: Results from phase 1 of the blueprint PD-L1 IHC
assay comparison project. J Thorac Oncol 2017; 12:208–222.
Pardoll DM. The blockade of immune checkpoints in cancer immunotherapy.
Nat Rev Cancer 2012; 12:252–264.
Ratcliffe MJ, Sharpe A, Midha A, et al. Agreement between programmed cell
death ligand-1 diagnostic assays across multiple protein expression cutoffs in
non-small cell lung cancer. Clin Cancer Res 2017; 23:3585–3591.
Rimm DL, Han G, Taube JM, et al. A prospective, multi-institutional, pathologist-based assessment of 4 immunohistochemistry assays for PD-L1 expression in non-small cell lung cancer. JAMA Oncol 2017; 3:1051–1058.
Rizvi NA, Hellmann MD, Snyder A, et al. Mutational landscape determines
sensitivity to PD-1 blockade in non-small cell lung cancer. Science 2014;
348:124–128.

54

Gosney et al.

Scheel AH, Dietel M, Heukamp LC, et al. Harmonized PD-L1 immunohistochemistry for pulmonary squamous-cell and adenocarcinomas. Mod Pathol
2016; 29:1165–1172.
Shukuya T, Carbone DP. Predictive markers for the efficacy of anti-PD-1/PD-L1
antibodies in lung cancer. J Thorac Oncol 2016; 11:976–988.
Tsao MS, Kerr KM, Dacic S, et al (Eds). IASLC Atlas of PD-L1 Immunohistochemistry Testing in Lung Cancer. IASLC publication. N. Fort Myers, FL:
Editorial Rx Press, 2017.

1.4 Biomarkers for Immunotherapy

55

1.5 Resistance to Immunotherapy
S. Sangaletti
C. Chiodoni
M. P. Colombo
Molecular Immunology Unit, Research Department, Fondazione IRCCS,
Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy

Introduction
Although the immune system is efficiently armed to eliminate tumours
viewed as ‘altered self’, immune responses to developing tumours are
often modulated or suppressed. The main goal of immunotherapy is to
induce and boost the ability of immune cells to destroy cancer. This can
be achieved using different strategies such as cancer vaccines, adoptive
transfer of tumour infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), chimeric antigen
receptor (CAR)-T cells and immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs).
ICIs have demonstrated efficacy in many tumour types including metastatic melanoma and advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC),
also showing durable clinical response. However, the majority of patients
show resistance to ICIs. Such resistance may be either innate, if they
never responded, or acquired, if it follows an objective tumour response
(Figure 1). This resistance can be further subdivided into intrinsic, if elicited by the tumour itself, or extrinsic, when resulting from the interaction
with normal stromal cells in the tumour microenvironment (TME). Environmental factors such as microbiota, diet, hormone levels and metabolism can further contribute in establishing ICI resistance.

56

Figure 1 Mechanisms of resistance to ICI immunotherapy.

Acquired resistance

Tumour intrinsic

Low mutational burden
Low non-synonymous
mutations
β2-microglobulin and
general loss of HLA
IPRES signature
JAK1/2 and IFN
mutations
PTEN loss

Immunosuppression: MDSCs, Treg
T cell exclusion: low TIL
Wnt/β-catenin

Tumour intrinsic

Innate resistance

Loss of non-silent
point mutations
(immunoediting)
Up-regulation of
alternative check
points

Environmental-related
Microbiota
Metabolism
Diet
Hormone status

Abbreviations; HLA, human leukocyte antigen; ICI, immune checkpoint inhibitor; IFN, interferon; IPRES, innate anti-programmed cell
death protein 1 resistance; JAK, Janus kinase; MDSC, myeloid-derived suppressor cell; PTEN, phosphatase and tensin homologue;
TIL, tumour infiltrating lymphocyte; Treg, regulatory T cell.

Tumour-intrinsic Mechanisms of ICI Resistance
Innate Mechanisms
The impact of the mutational status on ICI resistance
The tumour mutation burden (TMB) is a quantitative measure of the total
number of mutations per coding area of the tumour genome, and is considered a new clinical marker able to predict response to immunotherapy.
In this context, recent advances in sequencing technology have led to
the identification of thousands of somatic mutations in single cancer
samples, and the definition of hyper-mutated (melanoma and NSCLC)
versus low-mutated (breast, pancreas) tumour types. In essence, tumours
with high TMB are those caused by exposure to mutagens (such as
ultraviolet radiation for melanoma or cigarette smoke for lung cancer),

1.5 Resistance to Immunotherapy

57

or characterised by defects in DNA damage repair machinery. The idea is
that tumours with the highest number of somatic mutations are likely to
be enriched in neoantigens, and therefore potentially more immunogenic.
According to this hypothesis, the best response rate to ICIs is observed in
tumours with high frequencies of somatic mutations, such as melanoma
and lung cancer. In melanoma, the clinical benefit of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4) blocking has been associated with the neoantigen repertoire. Indeed, Snyder et al (2014) identified a neoantigen signature that was specifically present in patients who strongly responded to
CTLA-4 blockade. The identification of immunogenic peptides and evaluation of the corresponding antigen-specific T cell response is complex and
unlikely to be routinely applied, due to the high costs, high technology
skills and facilities required. In brief, the tumour is analysed for the presence of non-synonymous somatic mutations in expressed genes by exome
sequencing. An algorithm is then used to predict proteasome processing
and human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-class binding, allowing the identification of epitopes likely to be recognised by CD8+ T cells. High affinity predicted peptides are synthesised, and TILs or peripheral blood CD8+
T cells from the patient are tested for reactivity through a tetramer-based
staining strategy. This approach allows monitoring of antigen-specific
T cell activity at different time points: before, during or after treatment.
As for anti-CTLA-4 immunotherapy, the mutational load also influences
the sensitivity to programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) blockade.
Available clinical data indicate a positive correlation between somatic
mutation frequency and the clinical benefit of PD-1/ programmed deathligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitors, and tumours with the highest somatic mutation rate, such as mismatch repair (MMR)-deficient cancers (melanoma
and NSCLC) showed the highest overall response rate. Whole-exome
sequencing of NSCLC treated with pembrolizumab, nivolumab and
atezolizumab showed, in independent cohorts, higher non-synonymous
mutation burden associated with improved objective response, durable clinical benefit and progression-free survival (PFS). Results for
the phase III clinical trial CheckMate 227, presented at the American
Association of Cancer Research (AACR) meeting in April 2018, showed
that in NSCLC patients with high TMB, nivolumab plus ipilimumab

58

Sangaletti et al.

provided improved benefit compared with chemotherapy (ChT) or antiPD-1 monotherapy and yielded durable responses, sparing the use of
ChT in the first-line setting.
Overall, studies on melanoma and NSCLC have shown that high mutational load and presence of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells are associated
with improved overall survival (OS) in patients treated with ICIs. However, despite this favourable genomic landscape, most patients do not
respond to immunotherapy, suggesting that the mutational load could be
only one factor leading to effective patient response. Possible explanation stems from the fact that CD8+ T cell-dependent killing of cancer
cells requires efficient presentation of tumour antigens by HLA-I molecules. Chowell and colleagues (2018) investigated whether germline
HLA-I genotype influences T cell recognition of tumour peptides and
response to ICI immunotherapies. In a large advanced cancer patient
cohort (>1500) they found that heterozygosity at HLA-I loci was associated with better survival than homozygosity for one or more HLA-I
genes. Maximal heterozygosity at all HLA-I loci (‘A,’ ‘B’ and ‘C’)
improved OS after ICIs, compared with patients who were homozygous
for at least one HLA locus.
Data showing that tumours characterised by relatively low mutational
burden (such as renal cell carcinoma) can respond positively to immune
checkpoint blockade (ICB) further support the idea that additional factors
are likely to play an important role in modulating response to ICIs.
Somatic mutations in antigen presentation machinery genes
To avoid recognition and elimination by CD8+ T cells, cancer cells often
harbour mutations in genes associated to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I presentation, such as β2-microglobulin or transporter
associated with antigen processing (TAP). Alternatively, the lack of MHC
molecules can be associated with the partial loss of chromosome 6 that
harbours MHC class I and class II genes. HLA loss variants can appear
at different phases of tumour progression. Indeed, cell lines established
from the same melanoma patient at metastatic stage IV of disease exhibited partial or complete HLA loss, not detectable in cell lines established
earlier at stage III. Consistently, Sucker et al (2014) showed that earlier
1.5 Resistance to Immunotherapy

59

lesions were infiltrated by higher numbers of T cells, and corresponding
cell lines showed higher T cell stimulatory capacity compared with those
derived from stage IV metastases. Such HLA loss may result in escape
variants no longer recognised by specific CD8+ T cells, and represents
the main obstacle in overcoming immunotherapy resistance. Additionally, Chowell et al (2018) showed dependency of ICB responsiveness on
HLA heterozygosity with diminished response in case of loss of HLA
heterozygosity.
Presence of specific transcriptome signatures
Hugo and colleagues (2016) demonstrated that although the TMB is
associated with an improved OS in melanoma patients treated with antiPD-1 immunotherapy, the mutational status was not able to predict the
response to anti-PD-1 therapy, suggesting that other genomic or nongenomic features contribute to ICI response. A transcriptional signature
known as IPRES (innate anti-PD-1 resistance) was found to characterise
innate resistant tumours. Notably, this signature was under-represented
in melanoma patients resistant to anti-CTLA-4 treatment, indicating that
innate mechanisms of resistance to anti-PD-1 or anti-CTLA-4 immunotherapy are likely different. Nevertheless, the IPRES signature was
found to be enriched in other anti-PD-1-resistant solid tumours, including pancreatic adenocarcinoma, clear cell renal cell carcinoma and lung
adenocarcinoma. This signature comprises genes of the epithelial–mesenchymal transition (EMT), immunosuppressive genes, monocyte and
macrophage chemotactic genes, and genes related to wound healing and
neo-angiogenesis. The mechanisms responsible for EMT-induced immunosuppression are not clear but may be related to deregulated expression
of immune checkpoints and alterations in cytokine and chemokine production/activities. A different composition of extracellular matrix (ECM)
molecules is also able to influence the recruitment of immune-suppressive cells and/or to exclude T cell infiltration, and could be considered
a possible mechanism for ICI resistance. Indeed, high-grade breast cancers with high expression of ECM molecules show a suppressive environment characterised by the enrichment in myeloid-derived suppressor
cells (MDSCs) and the lack of T cells, together with EMT features.

60

Sangaletti et al.

Mutations in JAK1/2 and interferon signalling
Another intrinsic mechanism of ICI resistance, found in both melanoma
and colon cancer, is the presence of homozygous loss-of-function
mutations in the Janus kinases, JAK1 and JAK2, tyrosine kinases that are
essential for interferon (IFN) intracellular signalling. In addition to JAK1/2
mutations, alteration in IFN signalling pathways, leading to anti PD-1 or
CTLA-4 resistance, could also be linked to somatic mutations in other
genes related to the IFN-γ pathway, such as the IFN-γ receptor (IFNGR)1
and IFNGR2 and interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1). The potential benefit of IFN-γ produced by T cells reaching the tumour site (i.e. direct tumour
apoptosis, as well as increased antigen presentation by up-regulation of
MHC class I molecules, and production of chemokines that attract T cells)
would be lost by defective IFN-γ signalling. JAK1/2 mutations have also
been found in other tumour histotypes, such as prostate and breast cancers.
Defective JAK1/2 pathways, besides being caused by tumour pre-existing genetic mutations, may also derive from epigenetic silencing and are
therefore considered an acquired mechanism of ICI resistance.
Although IFNs are important in the generation of an anti-tumour
immune response, recent evidence indicates that in conditions of prolonged IFN signalling and antigen exposure, they may have immunosuppressive roles. For example, they are responsible for the up-regulation
of PD-L1 and of other inhibitory pathways that may all contribute to
ICI resistance. Indeed, it has recently been shown that persistent type II
IFN signalling induces signal transducer and activator of transcription 1
(STAT1)-related epigenomic changes in tumours, and enhances expression of ligands for different T cell inhibitory receptors, contributing to
the establishment of a resistance programme.
Phosphatase and tensin homologue loss
Phosphatase and tensin homologue (PTEN) loss commonly occurs in
several cancers, including in approximately 30% of melanomas where it
correlates with resistance to ICI immunotherapy. Knock-down of PTEN
decreases the ability of T cells to kill tumour cells expressing the melanoma tumour antigen gp100. Moreover, silencing of PTEN reduces the
ability of adoptively transferred T cells to kill melanoma tumours in vivo
1.5 Resistance to Immunotherapy

61

when compared with tumours expressing PTEN. Melanoma patients
with tumours that express PTEN generally achieved greater reduction
of tumour size upon ICI treatment in comparison with patients with
tumours not expressing PTEN.
Wnt/β-catenin pathway activation
Aberrant regulation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway has been linked to
cancer development and progression, more aggressive behaviour and
worse prognosis in different types of cancers. For example, active Wnt/βcatenin signalling has been reported in one-third of melanoma tumours;
recently the laboratory of Thomas Gajewski (Department of Pathology,
University of Chicago, IL, USA) provided an elegant demonstration of
activation of Wnt/β-catenin signalling contributing to the lack of T cell
infiltration in melanoma. Using spontaneous mouse melanoma models,
he identified the mechanism by which active β-catenin signalling in the
tumour cells results in T cell exclusion and, consequently, resistance to
anti-PD-1 or anti-CTLA-4 therapy.
Tumour-intrinsic active β-catenin pathway may therefore contribute to
the ‘non-T cell inflamed’ tumour phenotype, alternatively referred to as
‘cold’, in contrast to ‘hot’ tumours, characterised by T cell infiltration.
The latter phenotype shows this positive prognostic value for different
types of early-stage cancer. In the metastatic setting, it is generally associated with better response to different immunotherapies, including ICB,
cancer vaccines and adoptive T cell transfer.
Acquired Mechanisms
Loss of non-silent point mutations
Although neoantigens represent attractive therapeutic targets, they also
contribute to cancer immunoediting. This process involves T cell-selective pressure on cancer cells, which results in the selection of less immunogenic tumour cell clones, which are spared from T cell killing. As an
example, the analysis of matched pre-treatment and resistant tumours
from NSCLC patients identified genomic changes that resulted in loss of
mutation-associated neoantigens in the resistant clones.

62

Sangaletti et al.

Tumour-extrinsic Mechanisms of ICI Resistance
Immunosuppression
Among extrinsic factors that can negatively impact on ICI-based immunotherapy, the generation of an immune-suppressive TME is one of the
most relevant. Tumour immune suppression depends on the recruitment
of a variety of immune cells, including MDSCs, dendritic cells (DCs),
tumour-associated macrophages (TAMs) and regulatory T cells (Tregs),
that through common or cell type-specific mechanisms suppress T cell
recruitment and responses. Several pieces of evidence, mostly obtained
from melanoma patients, suggest that high tumour infiltration by MDSCs
is associated with poor prognosis and resistance to ICI therapy.
MDSCs are mostly characterised by the production of nitric oxide
(NO) that, reacting with O2 in the TME, allows the generation of different reactive nitrogen species (RNS). RNS modify, post-translationally,
chemokines involved in T cell recruitment at the tumour site, including CCL2. Of note, nitrosylated CCL2 maintains its capacity to recruit
immunosuppressive myeloid cells but fails to sustain T cell recruitment.
MDSCs can also release the metabolic enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) that inhibits T cell expansion and promotes the conversion
of naïve T cells into Tregs. On the same line, TAMs can also promote the
immunosuppressive environment by acting on Tregs via immunosuppressive cytokines, such as interleukin-10 (IL-10) and transforming growth
factor β (TGFβ). Notably, the number of intratumoural Tregs could be
responsible for resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy in tumours that would
have been expected to positively respond to immunotherapy because
they are enriched in infiltrating CD8+ T cells.
Emerging evidence also points to an indirect mechanism through which
TAMs and myeloid cells can mediate ICI resistance. These cells can capture anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody (mAb) from the surface of T cells
with a mechanism involving Fcγ receptors (FcγRs), dampening the efficacy of the antibody. On this line, Arlauckas et al (2017) demonstrated
in mice that in vivo blockade of FcγRs before treatment with anti-PD-1
mAb enhanced immunotherapy-induced tumour regression.

1.5 Resistance to Immunotherapy

63

Generation of a Lymphocyte-excluded State
Effective immunotherapy relies on cancer cells being killed by cytotoxic
T cells. Therefore, a relevant step in this process is the physical interaction between antigen-specific T cells, generated within the draining lymph
nodes, and tumour cells. Different factors can impair the recruitment of
T cells in the TME. Cancer cells and cancer-associated fibroblasts can
also contribute to T cell exclusion through ECM fibre production and
cross-linking. Tumours whose genetic programme includes ECM molecules showed a different enrichment in immune-related genes. ECM-rich
high-grade breast tumours are impaired in the expression of genes related
to natural killer (NK), T and B cells, which otherwise are enriched in their
non-ECM rich, less aggressive counterparts. Conversely, tumours with a
high collagen density are enriched in myeloid cells localised in close contact with tumour cells. It has been shown that T cells easily migrate in
a loose collagen matrix, while, on the contrary, a dense collagen matrix
hampers T cell migration. This suggests that the interaction between the
ECM signature with immune and stromal signatures that are independently prognostic, per se, might be informative for patient selection for the
most appropriate immune-based therapeutic approach.
Up-regulation of Alternative Checkpoint Pathways
Immunotherapy may affect the TME up-regulating alternative checkpoint
pathways and therefore contribute to acquiring resistance to ICIs. This
has been demonstrated for T cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain 3
(TIM-3), both in NSCLC patients and corresponding mice models. Similarly, T cells can up-regulate lymphocyte-activation gene 3 (LAG-3) and
CTLA-4 after anti-PD-1 treatment.

Environmental Host Factors
Tumour Metabolism
Accumulating evidence suggests that the metabolic interplay between
cancer and immune cells can play an important role in the regulation of
the immune response and, consequently, in regulating response to immunotherapy. Such cross-talk is based on effector T cell and tumour cell use
of the same metabolic pathway and their competition to obtain energy.

64

Sangaletti et al.

In the TME, the oncogenic mutations, hypoxic condition and/or the low
uptake of blood-borne nutrient shift the metabolism from a mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation towards an aerobic glycolysis (Warburg
effect). A similar shift also occurs in lymphocytes upon activation. During activation, T cells reprogramme themselves from a mitochondrial to
a glycolytic metabolism. As a result, in the TME, highly proliferating
tumour cells would deprive T cells from environmental nutrients, leading
to T cell anergy/inactivation. Interestingly, a direct loop has been identified between PD-L1 and the change in metabolic pathway in tumour cells.
Chang and collaborators (2015) showed that PD-L1 can directly trigger
glycolysis and Akt activation in tumour cells while suppressing mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) activation in T cells through glucose
deprivation. Checkpoint blockade with anti-PD-L1 antibodies reverted
this condition by promoting T cell activation. It is not completely clear
how blocking PD-L1 is sufficient to revert the metabolic pathway in the
different cancer types, but a possible phosphorylation of the short cytoplasmic PD-L1 tail has been suggested. Like glucose metabolism, amino
acid metabolism can impact T cell activation. For example, tumour cells
can produce the enzyme IDO, which depletes the amino acid tryptophan
in the TME, resulting in T cell inhibition. Finally, cancer metabolism
can also be changed by DNA damage repair. DNA damage response has
been shown to regulate metabolic pathways and MMR-deficient patients
showed higher objective clinical responses to anti-PD-1 therapy compared with MMR-proficient patients. Overall, these data suggest considering dietary and pharmacological approaches targeting tumour metabolism for combination treatment in association to immunotherapy.
The Microbiota
Microbiota defines commensal bacteria with homeostatic functions that
are present at mucosal sites. The microbiota can affect different aspects
of tumour biology, including transformation and response to immunotherapy. Alterations in the microbiota can result from exposure to environmental factors (i.e. diet, toxins, drugs) and pathogens. Enteric pathogens have the greatest potential to induce microbial dysbiosis and to
trigger local and systemic auto-inflammatory conditions that, in turn, can
promote cancer development in the gut, but also in other extra-intestinal
1.5 Resistance to Immunotherapy

65

sites (i.e. hepatocellular carcinoma and breast cancer). The mutual relationship between the gut microbiota and the immune system suggests the
potential relevance of the gut microbiota in modulating host response to
immunotherapy. Pioneering studies in murine models showed that antibiotic-mediated disruption of the microbiota impaired the effectiveness
of CpG-based immunotherapy. In humans, some evidence suggests that
the efficacy of CTLA-4 and PD-1 blockade depends on distinct Bacteroides species of the gut microbiota. Specific microbiota can also prevent
the development of colitis, a common side effect of ICI immunotherapy.
Metagenomics, metatranscriptomics and culturomic platforms now provide the opportunity to determine the microbiome of a patient, opening the
possibility of using probiotics, prebiotics and/or carefully selected antibiotics in preparation for subsequent ChT or immunotherapy alone or in
combination.

Unmet Needs
Two of the most important unmet needs are the identification of predictive biomarkers of responsiveness, and the development of suitable
response criteria. The need for biomarkers of response to immunotherapeutic agents relies on the great variability of responses to ICIs and,
therefore, the difficulties of patient selection for appropriateness of care.
One of the most widely used biomarkers to predict response to anti-PD-1
is the expression of PD-L1 on tumour cells detected by immunohistochemistry (IHC). However, contradictory results have been obtained
regarding the role of PD-L1 expression as a marker of response, as in
some cases tumours that were negative for PD-L1 did respond, whereas
PD-L1-expressing tumours did not. Although the different criteria (cytoplasmic versus surface expression) and antibodies used to evaluate
PD-L1 expression partially explain such unexpected results, the biological mechanisms behind this complex picture are still to be identified, but
a match with the co-presence of PD-1-positive CD8 cells should probably identify the responding PD-L1-positive tumours.
Another unmet need is the definition of ICI response criteria. Considering their mechanisms of action, patient response to these treatments

66

Sangaletti et al.

cannot be measured with conventional criteria such as World Health
Organization (WHO) or Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours
(RECIST). In some cases, the initial response is characterised by an
apparent increase in tumour size that, however, is not due to enhanced
tumour cell proliferation but rather to increased T cell infiltration. This
phenomenon, referred to as ‘pseudoprogression’, prompted the proposal
of new response criteria in 2009, the immune-related response criteria
(irRC). Although proven useful in some instances, several issues related
to irRC such as tumour measurement (bidimensional versus unidimensional) and timing of response assessment (4-week window or longer
timeframe) remain to be addressed. The reported cases of hyperprogression quickly following PD-1 or PD-L1 ICI treatment are cause for concern. The remarkable clinical and imaging worsening may affect roughly
20% of treated patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)
alteration and 4% of those with MDM2 family amplification, but other
undefined mechanisms might be involved.
Finally, the many possibilities of combination therapies (with radio/ChT or
immune co-stimulation) that could be given together or that require proper
sequence should be carefully assessed using the adaptive trial design.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Sangaletti has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Chiodoni has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Colombo has reported no potential conflicts of interest.

Further Reading
Alexandrov LB, Nik-Zainal S, Wedge DC, et al. Signatures of mutational processes in human cancer. Nature 2013; 500:415–421.
Arlauckas SP, Garris CS, Kohler RH, et al. In vivo imaging reveals a tumorassociated macrophage-mediated resistance pathway in anti-PD-1 therapy.
Sci Transl Med 2017; 9(389).
Benci JL, Xu B, Qiu Y, et al. Tumor interferon signaling regulates a multigenic
resistance program to immune checkpoint blockade. Cell 2016; 167:1540–
1554.e12.

1.5 Resistance to Immunotherapy

67

Chang CH, Qiu J, O’Sullivan D, et al. Metabolic competition in the tumor microenvironment is a driver of cancer progression. Cell 2015; 162:1229–1241.
Chowell D, Morris LGT, Grigg CM, et al. Patient HLA class I genotype influences cancer response to checkpoint blockade immunotherapy. Science
2018; 359:582–587.
Coulie PG, Van den Eynde BJ, van der Bruggen P, Boon T. Tumour antigens
recognized by T lymphocytes: at the core of cancer immunotherapy. Nat Rev
Cancer 2014; 14:135–146.
De Sanctis F, Sandri S, Ferrarini G, et al. The emerging immunological role of
post-translational modifications by reactive nitrogen species in cancer microenvironment. Front Immunol 2014; 5:69.
Hugo W, Zaretsky JM, Sun L, et al. Genomic and transcriptomic features of
response to anti-PD-1 therapy in metastatic melanoma. Cell 2016; 165:35–44.
Joyce JA, Fearon DT. T cell exclusion, immune privilege, and the tumor microenvironment. Science 2015; 348:74–80.
Kato S, Goodman A, Walavalkar V, et al. Hyperprogressors after immunotherapy: analysis of genomic alterations associated with accelerated growth rate.
Clin Cancer Res 2017; 23:4242–4250.
Koyama S, Akbay EA, Li YY, et al. Adaptive resistance to therapeutic PD-1
blockade is associated with upregulation of alternative immune checkpoints.
Nat Commun 2016; 7:10501.
Marincola FM, Jaffee EM, Hicklin DJ, Ferrone S. Escape of human solid tumors
from T-cell recognition: molecular mechanisms and functional significance.
Adv Immunol 2000; 74:181–273.
Matsushita H, Vesely MD, Koboldt DC, et al. Cancer exome analysis reveals
a T-cell-dependent mechanism of cancer immunoediting. Nature 2012;
482:400–404.
Minn AJ, Wherry EJ. Combination cancer therapies with immune checkpoint
blockade: convergence on interferon signalling. Cell 2016; 165:272–275.
Rizvi NA, Hellmann MD, Snyder A, et al. Cancer immunology. Mutational landscape determines sensitivity to PD-1 blockade in non-small cell lung cancer.
Science 2015; 348:124–128.
Roy S, Trinchieri G. Microbiota: a key orchestrator of cancer therapy. Nat Rev
Cancer 2017; 17:271–285.
Sangaletti S, Tripodo C, Santangelo A, et al. Mesenchymal transition of highgrade breast carcinomas depends on extracellular matrix control of myeloid
suppressor cell activity. Cell Rep 2016; 17:233–248.
Schumacher TN, Schreiber RD. Neoantigens in cancer immunotherapy. Science
2015; 348:69–74.

68

Sangaletti et al.

Shin DS, Zaretsky JM, Escuin-Ordinas H, et al. Primary resistance to PD-1
blockade mediated by JAK1/2 mutations. Cancer Discov 2017; 7:188–201.
Snyder A, Makarov V, Merghoub T, et al. Genetic basis for clinical response to
CTLA-4 blockade in melanoma. N Engl J Med 2014; 371:2189–2199.
Sucker A, Zhao F, Real B, et al. Genetic evolution of T-cell resistance in the
course of melanoma progression. Clin Cancer Res 2014; 20:6593–6604.
Van Allen EM, Miao D, Schilling B, et al. Genomic correlates of response to
CTLA-4 blockade in metastatic melanoma. Science 2015; 350:207–211.
Vétizou M, Pitt JM, Daillère R, et al. Anticancer immunotherapy by CTLA-4
blockade relies on the gut microbiota. Science 2015; 350:1079–1084.

1.5 Resistance to Immunotherapy

69

Section 2:
Immunotherapies in
specific disease groups –
State of the art

2

2.1 Melanoma
R. Teixeira de Sousa1,2
A. Mansinho1
P. Lorigan3
Department of Medical Oncology, Hospital de Santa Maria, Lisbon, Portugal
Department of Medical Oncology, Hospital Lusíadas, Lisbon, Portugal
3
Department of Medical Oncology, University of Manchester and
Christie NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK
1
2

Overview of Immunotherapy in Melanoma
Recent advances in cancer treatment have ushered in a novel era of immunotherapy, providing new treatment options. Melanoma has always been
described as an immunogenic tumour, and several immunomodulatory strategies have been tested. Nevertheless, chemotherapy (ChT) remained the standard-of-care (SoC) for metastatic melanoma (MM) until 2011, with response
rates (RRs) of 15%–20%, albeit with no overall survival (OS) benefit. Before
immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), the only approved immunotherapeutic
agent for MM was high-dose interleukin-2 (IL-2). With an overall response
rate (ORR) of 16% and a median response time of 8.9 months, the main
benefit of this treatment was the possibility of a sustained response, with 28%
of patients showing no signs of progression after 5 years. IL-2 was, however,
susceptible to induce severe treatment-related toxicities, and could therefore
only be considered a treatment option for fit patients in specialised centres.
ICIs revolutionised the treatment of metastatic/unresectable melanoma,
with several randomised clinical trials showing survival benefits, finally
leading to the approval of the first immune checkpoints by regulatory
authorities, FDA (Food and Drug Administration) and EMA (European
Medicines Agency): the anti-CTLA-4 (cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen
4) antibody ipilimumab and subsequently the anti-PD-1 (programmed
cell death protein 1) antibodies nivolumab and pembrolizumab.

73

Immunotherapy in Metastatic/Unresectable
Melanoma
Anti-CTLA-4 Antibodies
Two pivotal phase III trials (CA 184-002 and CA 184-024) led to the
approval of ipilimumab. In previously treated patients, ipilimumab 3 mg/
kg was associated with an improvement in median survival of 3 months
compared with gp100 vaccine therapy. More importantly, there was a
tail on the survival curve, with some patients gaining a sustained benefit.
A phase III trial compared ipilimumab 10 mg/kg in combination with
dacarbazine (DTIC) versus DTIC alone in treatment-naïve patients.
Median OS was significantly better in the combination group (11.2 versus 9.1 months), but, as the combination was associated with unexpectedly high liver toxicity, it was not submitted for approval. Ipilimumab
treatment is associated with a substantial risk of immune-related adverse
events (irAEs). In clinical trials, >80% of patients treated with ipilimumab reported adverse events (AEs): 10%–26% experienced grade ≥3
irAEs (enterocolitis in 34 [6.7%] patients, hepatotoxicity in 8 [1.6%],
dermatitis in 13 [2.5%] and endocrinopathies in 9 [1.8%] patients).
A pooled analysis of 1861 patients treated with ipilimumab with a maximum follow-up (FU) of 10 years revealed a 3-year OS of 21% and a plateau on the OS curve, representing the long-term responders subgroup.
Based on these results, ipilimumab became an SoC in the first and subsequent lines settings.
The superiority shown by anti-PD-1 agents in clinical trials made them
the drugs of choice as first-line immunotherapy, leaving ipilimumab
(when not used in combination with an anti-PD-1) with an uncertain role
in the treatment algorithm of melanoma.
An important question is the activity of ipilimumab after another firstline single-agent PD-1 therapy. A retrospective study of the KEYNOTE-006 trial (see below) showed an RR of 16% and 1-year OS of
68% in patients progressing on pembrolizumab and treated in second
line with ipilimumab. Similarly, in the CheckMate 067 study (below),
26% of patients progressing on nivolumab received ipilimumab, contributing to the 3-year OS of 52% for the nivolumab arm.

74

Teixeira de Sousa et al.

Anti-PD-1 Antibodies
The clinical development of anti-PD-1 antibodies was a milestone in
the treatment of advanced melanoma. Pembrolizumab and nivolumab
are currently approved in this indication. Phase I and II trials showed
significant clinical activity associated with these agents, with a favourable toxicity profile. In the phase III CheckMate 037 trial, nivolumab
(3 mg/kg every 2 weeks [q2w]) was compared with investigator’s choice
ChT in previously treated patients who progressed on ipilimumab
or BRAF inhibitors. ORR, the primary endpoint, was higher in the
nivolumab group: 31.7% versus 10.6%. In first-line setting, nivolumab
was compared with DTIC in BRAF wild-type melanoma patients in the
CheckMate 066 trial. The primary endpoint was met, with a median OS
not reached in the nivolumab group compared with 10.8 months in the
DTIC group. Nivolumab was associated with a better progression-free
survival (PFS) (5.1 versus 2.2 months) and ORR (40.0% versus 13.9%).
The phase III KEYNOTE-006 trial was designed to compare
pembrolizumab with ipilimumab in checkpoint inhibitor-naïve patients.
OS and PFS were co-primary endpoints of this study, and patients were
randomised 1:1:1 to receive one of two schedules of pembrolizumab
(10 mg/kg, q2w or q3w) or ipilimumab 3 mg/kg q3w. Results showed
a median OS not yet reached in the pooled pembrolizumab arms versus
16 months in the ipilimumab arm, and a 2 year-OS also superior for the
anti-PD-1 (55% versus 43% with ipilimumab). The co-primary endpoint
of PFS was met, with a median of 5.6 and 4.1 versus 2.8 months for each
pembrolizumab arm and ipilimumab, respectively, and ORR of 36% and
37% versus 13%, also favouring pembrolizumab.
Pembrolizumab and nivolumab have shown a significantly better safety
profile compared with ipilimumab. The incidence of grade 3–4 treatment-related adverse events (trAEs) with PD-1 inhibitors ranges from
10%–16%, compared with 19%–27% with ipilimumab. The most common anti-PD-1-associated toxicities are fatigue, cutaneous toxicity (rash
and pruritus), diarrhoea and endocrinopathies.
One of the important benefits of immunotherapy is the possibility of
achieving sustained responses, due to activation of the immune system
2.1 Melanoma

75

leading to memory being established. This potential for prolonged clinical response also raises the question of how long to continue treatment
in responding patients. The first glimpse of an answer came from the
long-term results of the KEYNOTE-001 and -006 trials. In the latter,
treatment was halted after 2 years of pembrolizumab. Results from the
104 patients who completed therapy and had a median FU of 9.7 months
revealed that 98% were alive. The estimated PFS at this timepoint was
91% for the overall population, 95% for patients who achieved a complete response (CR), 91% for patients with partial response (PR) and
83% for patients with stable disease (SD). Trials are ongoing or planned
in Canada and the UK to address this question directly.
Combination of Checkpoint Inhibitors
The exciting results achieved with single immune checkpoint agents led
to the investigation of combinations of ICIs with different mechanisms
of action (anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4).
This approach was initially investigated in the phase II CheckMate
069 and in the phase III CheckMate 067 trials. The latter compared
ipilimumab 3 mg/kg plus nivolumab 1 mg/kg or placebo for 4 cycles,
followed by nivolumab 3 mg/kg q2w or placebo, versus single-agent
nivolumab or ipilimumab 3 mg/kg. The trial was designed to compare
the nivolumab arms with ipilimumab, but not to compare the nivolumab
arms directly. ORR and median PFS were significantly higher for the
combination arm (Table 1). At 2 years, the survival curves had separated,
with an OS rate of 64% for the combination versus 59% and 45% for the
single agents nivolumab and ipilimumab, respectively. A recent update
showed a 3-year OS rate of 58% for the combination and 52% for the
nivolumab arm. Subgroup analysis showed that the benefit for combination therapy was higher in younger patients, those with BRAF-mutated
tumours and those with low programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression. These results were, however, at the expense of high toxicity, with
grade 3–4 AEs in 58% of patients treated with the combination. Based
on these results, the combination regimen of ipilimumab plus nivolumab
was approved by the regulatory authorities.

76

Teixeira de Sousa et al.

21–25
4
36–37
13

40.0
13.9

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Pembrolizumab (2 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg; q3w)
vs ChT
(KEYNOTE-002; NCT01704287)

Pembrolizumab (10 mg/kg; q2w or q3w)
vs Ipilimumab (3 mg/kg; q3w)
(KEYNOTE-006; NCT01866319)

Nivolumab (3 mg/kg; q2w)
vs ChT
(CheckMate 037; NCT01721746)

Nivolumab (3 mg/kg; q2w)
vs DTIC (1000 mg/m2; q3w)
(CheckMate 066; NCT01721772)

Nivolumab + Ipilimumab (1 mg/ kg + 3 mg/kg;
q3w x 4 → Nivolumab 3 mg/kg; q2w)
vs Nivolumab (3 mg/kg; q2w)
or Ipilimumab (3 mg/kg; q3w)
(CheckMate 067; NCT01844505)

2.1 Melanoma

21
28
52
34
59
45
74
67
37.6
19.9
6.9
2.9

44
19

Abbreviations: AE, adverse event; ChT, chemotherapy; DTIC, dacarbazine; mOS, median overall survival; mPFS, median progression-free survival; ORR, overall response rate; OS, overall survival;
qXw, every X weeks.

59
58
64
73
–

11.5

58

14
34

17
20

11–14
26

56.3
27.5

Grade 3/4
AEs (%)

11.7
17.6

–

–

–

20.8
12.2

3-year OS
(months)

–

–

55
43

36–38
30

28.5
17.9

2-year OS
(months)

57.7
26.7

–

68–74
59

–

47.3
36.3

1-year OS
(months)

72.9
42.1

15.7
14.4

–
16 .0

13.4–14.7
11

11.2
9.1

mOS
(months)

–
10.8

3.1
3.7

4.6–5.1
2.8

2.9
2.7

3
3

mPFS
(months)

5.1
2.2

27.0
10.0

15.2
10.3

Yes

ORR
(%)

Ipilimumab (10 mg/kg; q3w) + DTIC
vs DTIC (850 mg/m2; q3w)
(CA184-024; NCT00324155)

Treatment
naïve

Table 1 Immunotherapy in Melanoma Clinical Trials

77

Assuming that much of the toxicity seen with combination therapy was
due to the use of full-dose ipilimumab 3 mg/kg, the combination of
pembrolizumab and reduced-dose ipilimumab was investigated in the
phase Ia-Ib KEYNOTE-029 study. Ipilimumab dose was reduced to
1 mg/kg and combined with 4 doses of pembrolizumab 3 mg/kg q3w,
followed by pembrolizumab alone. This combination showed an incidence of grade 3–4 AEs of 42% and an ORR of 57% in the exploratory
analysis. The results of a phase III study are expected soon.
Brain Metastasis
Metastatic disease in the central nervous system is present at diagnosis
in approximately 10% of MM patients, leading to significant morbidity.
Surgery and stereotactic radiotherapy are the main treatment for patients
with small-volume metastases, with BRAF-directed therapy active in eligible patients. Recently, combined checkpoint inhibition has emerged
as a new option for these patients. Compelling evidence from two phase
II studies, CheckMate 204 and Anti-PD-1 Brain Collaboration (ABC),
was recently presented and supports the combined use of nivolumab and
ipilimumab in this subgroup, leading to favourable RRs with concomitant systemic control. Of note, both trials only included asymptomatic
patients with brain metastasis.
The CheckMate 204 trial included steroid-free patients with at least
one brain lesion. The primary endpoint was intracranial clinical benefit – a composite endpoint including CR, PR and SD for more than six
months. The intracranial ORR was 56%, with 19% of patients achieving
CR. Extra-cranial responses were largely concordant with intracranial
responses and the six-month PFS rate exceeded 65%. Similarly, in the
combination cohort of the Australian ABC trial, an intracranial benefit of
42% and a 15% CR rate were achieved.
Talimogene Laherparepvec
Talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) is an oncolytic herpes virus genetically modified to express granulocyte–macrophage colony-stimulating
factor (GM-CSF). Intra-lesional injection results in both tumour destruction and recruitment of dendritic cells, leading to immune activation and

78

Teixeira de Sousa et al.

a distant effect. T-VEC was licensed based on the OPTIM study, which
showed a durable response at 6 months compared with GM-CSF in
patients with inoperable stage IIIc and IVM1a disease. Promising results
have also been seen in combination with ICIs. The phase IB trial Masterkey-265 reported a confirmed ORR of 57.1% and an unconfirmed CR
rate of 28.8% for T-VEC combined with pembrolizumab.

Adjuvant Immunotherapy in Melanoma
Until recently, the adjuvant setting presented a major gap in melanoma
treatment. The treatment of choice in this setting used to be high-dose
interferon-alpha (IFN-α) for stage IIB/III melanomas. Several trials
(Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group [ECOG] E1684, E1690, E1694)
showed a benefit in recurrence-free survival (RFS), but inconsistent results
in terms of survival benefit. A meta-analysis of IFN trials showed a very
modest impact on OS, and no clear impact of dose or duration of treatment.
The FDA approved pegylated-IFN (PEG-IFN) for stage III melanoma
patients, based on the European Organisation for Research and Treatment
of Cancer (EORTC) 18991 trial in 1256 patients, which reported significant improvement in RFS in favour of PEG-IFN-α2b. Updated results
with a median FU of 7.6 years showed that the greatest benefit was seen
in patients with microscopic nodal disease who had ulcerated primary
tumours, and no benefit was seen in non-ulcerated tumours.
Ipilimumab was investigated in the adjuvant setting in two randomised
phase III trials comparing it with placebo (EORTC 18071) and high-dose
INF-α (ECOG 1609). In the EORTC trial, ipilimumab (4 doses of 10
mg/kg q3w, and then every 3 months for 3 years) showed favourable outcomes in RFS, distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS) and OS. Results
evidenced a 5-year RFS of 40.8% versus 30.3%, and a 5-year OS rate of
65.4% versus 54.4% in favour of ipilimumab. Ipilimumab was associated with a high rate of toxicity, with 41.6% of grade 3–4 irAEs and five
deaths. This trial led to the approval of adjuvant ipilimumab (10 mg/kg)
by the FDA, but ipilimumab was not submitted to the EMA for approval.
More recently, the results of CheckMate 238 were reported (Table 2).
This trial tested nivolumab versus ipilimumab for 1 year and included
2.1 Melanoma

79

80
–

1 year

1 year

1 year

Pembrolizumab (200 mg; q3w)
vs placebo
(KEYNOTE-054; NCT02362594)

Dabrafenib + Trametinib (150 mg bid + 2 mg qd)
vs placebo
(Combi-AD; NCT01682083)

Vemurafenib (960 mg bid)

Teixeira de Sousa et al.
78.9
58

Cohort II (stage IIIC)
Vemurafenib
vs placebo
(Brim-8; NCT01667419)

Abbreviations: bid, twice daily; HR, hazard ratio; OS, overall survival; qd, once daily; qXw, every X weeks; RFS, recurrence-free survival.

84.3
66.2

88
56

–

70.5
60.8

Cohort I (stage IIC, IIIA, IIIB)
Vemurafenib
vs placebo

–

30

18

1 year

Minimum follow-up 1-year RFS (%)
(months)

Nivolumab (3 mg/kg; q2w)
vs Ipilimumab (10 mg/kg, q3w x 4 → q12w)
(CheckMate 238; NCT02388906)

Duration of
treatment

0.80

0.54

0.47

0.57

0.65

HR for relapse

–

–

86
77

–

–

3-year OS

–

–

0.57

–

–

HR for OS

Table 2 Adjuvant Immunotherapy in Melanoma Clinical Trials

stage IIIB, IIIC or resected stage IV patients. The primary endpoint was
RFS. Nivolumab showed a higher 12-month RFS rate (70.5% versus
60.8% with ipilimumab), which was significantly longer. The toxicity
profile was also better with nivolumab, with 14.4% of AEs grade 3–4
versus 45.9% with ipilimumab. Nivolumab has recently been approved
as an adjuvant treatment by the FDA. OS data are pending.
Another ongoing phase III clinical trial is evaluating adjuvant pembrolizumab versus placebo in stage III melanoma patients (EORTC 1325/
KEYNOTE-054 trial). In April 2018, a press release reported that the
study had met the primary endpoint with a hazard ratio of 0.57 for RFS
with pembrolizumab (98.4% confidence interval: 0.43–0.74; p<0.0001).

Immunotherapy Versus Targeted Therapy
For patients with a BRAF-driver mutation, the combination of BRAF
with MEK inhibitors is currently an SoC. Targeted treatment is associated with higher responses and shorter time-to-response compared
with immunotherapy, with a distinct toxicity profile. Both treatment
approaches have the potential for sustained durable disease control in
patients with favourable prognostic factors. It is unclear how to optimally sequence treatments for patients with BRAF mutations. Several
clinical trials are ongoing to address this question. There is evidence
that targeting the MAPK pathways has a direct impact on the immune
system, including increased melanoma antigen expression, decreased
immunosuppressive cytokine production, increased CD8+ T cell infiltration, increased T cell clonality, increased PD-L1 expression and Class I
major histocompatibility complex (MHC) upregulation. This benefit is
lost in tumours becoming resistant to targeted therapy. Rather than treat
to progression, one strategy under evaluation is to switch to immunotherapy after a short induction treatment with targeted therapy, and to
switch back if the patient subsequently progresses on immunotherapy, so
that the melanoma would still be sensitive to targeted therapy.
Another approach is a triplet combination of BRAF/MEK and antiPD-1 inhibitors, now under evaluation in clinical trials. In previously
untreated BRAF-mutant melanoma patients, COMB-I (NCT02967692),
2.1 Melanoma

81

a phase III study of dabrafenib + trametinib ± PDR001 (a PD-L1 inhibitor) was developed to explore the efficacy and toxicity of combinations.
TRILOGY (NCT02908672), a phase III study with atezolizumab (antiPD-L1 antibody), vemurafenib and cobimetinib, is also addressing this
question. Management of overlapping toxicities poses a challenge, e.g.
drug-induced versus immune hepatitis (NCT02130466, NCT02967692,
NCT02908672).
In the absence of randomised, prospective data to help guiding current
treatment decisions, it is crucial to consider both patient and disease
characteristics (performance status, tumour-related symptoms, co-morbidities, tumour burden, growth rate) and patient wishes, to select the
best treatment approach.

The Endless Search for a Biomarker
A significant number of patients do not benefit from ICIs, with approximately 30%–40% of patients refractory to single anti-PD-1 treatment.
Identifying a predictive biomarker has been a major focus over the last
few years.
Given the mechanism of action of anti-PD-1 agents, expression of the
target on tumour cells would be a logical biomarker to study. However,
PD-L1 expression is not a very reliable biomarker for many reasons,
including results being dependent on the platform used, expression being
inducible, etc. There is evidence of an increased RR with increased
expression, though tumours with low expression can still respond to PD-1
inhibitors. PD-L1 expression can help to identify patients more likely to
benefit from combination immunotherapy. In the CheckMate 067 study,
patients with low levels of PD-L1 expression responded better to combination ipilimumab plus nivolumab versus single-agent nivolumab (PFS
of 11.2 versus 5.3 months), the PFS for patients with >5% expression of
PD-L1 being similar for both treatment arms at 14 months.
High rates of somatic mutations are believed to translate into increased
neo-epitope formation, contributing to tumour immunogenicity. However, mutational load itself is not enough to account for response to ICIs,
and neoantigen expression (particularly clonal neoantigens) is responsi-

82

Teixeira de Sousa et al.

ble for T cell activation. The presence of key signalling pathways is also
required to allow spontaneous T cell response. Understanding these key
factors on an individual patient basis allows treatment strategies to be
tailored, but remains an experimental approach.
Recent data suggest a link between toxicity and response. A systematic
review of patients treated with immunotherapy showed that those who
developed vitiligo-like depigmentation had a two- to four-fold lower risk
of disease progression and death, respectively. Furthermore, there was
no evidence that patients receiving immunosuppression in the form of
high-dose corticosteroids or infliximab had a lower RR than untreated
patients. Recent subgroup analysis of the CheckMate 067 study has
shown that patients discontinuing treatment because of toxicity had a
higher RR than those not experiencing significant toxicity.

Future Perspectives
The landscape of melanoma treatment has changed dramatically over the
last 7 years, transforming the outcome for patients. There is no evidence
that the pace of progress is slowing. New, rational combinations are
being tested, focusing on increasing the immune response, reducing toxicity and personalising treatment for individual patients. The outcomes
for rare subtype of melanomas (e.g. mucosal, uveal), which are biologically distinct from cutaneous melanoma, remain poor and the development of more effective systemic therapy is mandatory.
While ICIs result in durable responses, this is not the case for all patients.
Many different strategies are being studied to improve outcomes for
patients: strategies to increase T cell infiltration of tumours, antigen
release and recognition, to modulate the tumour microenvironment
(TME), evaluation of new checkpoint inhibitors and combination with
targeted therapy. Combination strategies are being evaluated in many
clinical trials. Some examples are given below, but this is not a comprehensive list and the reader is directed to clinicaltrials.gov for more
information.
IDO-1 (indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1) is overexpressed in several cancers, including melanoma, resulting in suppression of T cell function
2.1 Melanoma

83

within the TME. While IDO-1 inhibitors have no activity as single agents,
an RR of 53% was observed in a phase II study when indoximod, an IDO
inhibitor, was given in combination with pembrolizumab. Similar results
were observed with the epacadostat/pembrolizumab combination.
Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACis) were also combined with ICIs.
The ENCORE 601 phase II trial tested pembrolizumab in combination
with entinostat and demonstrated favourable results that warrant phase
III confirmation.
Another appealing concept is the concurrent engagement of the target
cell antigen and CD3 receptor BITE (bispecific T cell engager), leading
to activation of polyclonal cytotoxic T cells and resulting in target lysis.
Several new BITEs have been developed (carcinoembryonic antigen,
human epidermal growth factor receptor 2, prostate-specific antigen),
and are currently being tested both in monotherapy and in combination
with anti-PD-1 agents.
Adoptive cell therapy can result in a durable benefit in selected patients,
particularly the 20% that achieve a CR. Ongoing studies are comparing
tumour infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) therapy with ICIs and evaluating
the role of low-dose IL-2 to reduce the significant toxicity of this treatment, making it an option for more patients. A major focus is on identifying biomarkers of response, either at the start of or on treatment. These
will allow more rational use of these effective and expensive treatments.
The exciting results from adjuvant trials will undoubtedly translate into
approvals in this setting, but how this will impact on the treatment of
advanced disease is unknown. Immunotherapy in melanoma sets a precedent for advances in many other cancer types, and will continue to do
for the foreseeable future.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Teixeira de Sousa has been a consultant/advisor/paid speaker for
Roche, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Novartis and Bristol-Myers Squibb.
Dr Mansinho has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Lorigan has been a consultant/advisor/paid speaker for Merck Sharp
& Dohme, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Novartis, Amgen, GlaxoSmithKline,

84

Teixeira de Sousa et al.

Nektar, Roche and Neracare, and received support for travel from Merck
Sharp & Dohme and Bristol-Myers Squibb.

Further Reading
Andtbacka RH, Kaufman HL, Collichio F, et al. Talimogene laherparepvec
improves durable response rate in patients with advanced melanoma. J Clin
Oncol 2015; 33:2780–2788.
Johnson DB, Frampton GM, Rioth MJ, et al. Targeted next generation sequencing identifies markers of response to PD-1 blockade. Cancer Immunol Res
2016; 4:959–967.
Larkin J, Chiarion-Sileni V, Gonzalez R, et al. Overall survival (OS) results from
a phase III trial of nivolumab (NIVO) combined with ipilimumab (IPI) in
treatment-naïve patients with advanced melanoma (CheckMate 067). Cancer
Res 2017; 77(13 Suppl):Abstract nr CT075.
Long GV, Atkinson V, Cebon JS, et al. Pembrolizumab (pembro) plus ipilimumab (ipi) for advanced melanoma: results of the KEYNOTE-029 expansion cohort. J Clin Oncol 2016; 35:15_suppl:9506–9506.
Long GV, Atkinson V, Menzies AM, et al. A randomized phase II study of
nivolumab or nivolumab combined with ipilimumab in patients (pts) with
melanoma brain metastases (mets): The Anti-PD1 Brain Collaboration
(ABC). J Clin Oncol 2017; 34:15_suppl:9508–9508.
Long GV, Dummer R, Ribas A, et al. Efficacy analysis of MASTERKEY-265
phase 1b study of talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) and pembrolizumab
(pembro) for unresectable stage IIIB-IV melanoma. J Clin Oncol 2016;
34:15_suppl:9568–9568.
Luke JJ, Flaherty KT, Ribas A, Long GV. Targeted agents and immunotherapies:
optimizing outcomes in melanoma. Nat Rev Clin Oncol 2017; 14:463–482.
Madore J, Vilain RE, Menzies AM, et al. PD-L1 expression in melanoma shows
marked heterogeneity within and between patients: implications for antiPD-1/PD-L1 clinical trials. Pigment Cell Melanoma Res 2015; 28:245–253.
Robert C, Long GV, Schachter J, et al. Long-term outcomes in patients (pts) with
ipilimumab (ipi)-naive advanced melanoma in the phase 3 KEYNOTE-006
study who completed pembrolizumab (pembro) treatment. J Clin Oncol
2017; 35:15_suppl:9504–9504.
Schachter J, Ribas A, Long GV, et al. Pembrolizumab versus ipilimumab for
advanced melanoma: final overall survival results of a multicentre, randomised, open-label phase 3 study (KEYNOTE-006). Lancet 2017;
390:1853–1862.

2.1 Melanoma

85

Schadendorf D, Hodi FS, Robert C, et al. Pooled analysis of long-term survival
data from phase II and phase III trials of ipilimumab in unresectable or metastatic melanoma. J Clin Oncol 2015; 33:1889–1894.
Tawbi HA-H, Forsyth PAJ, Algazi AP, et al. Efficacy and safety of nivolumab
(NIVO) plus ipilimumab (IPI) in patients with melanoma (MEL) metastatic
to the brain: results of the phase II study CheckMate 204. J Clin Oncol 2017;
35:15_suppl:9507–9507.
Weber J, Mandala M, Del Vecchio M, et al. Adjuvant nivolumab versus
ipilimumab in resected stage III or IV melanoma. N Engl J Med 2017;
377:1824–1835.
Zakharia Y, McWilliams R, Shaheen M, et al. Interim analysis of the Phase 2
clinical trial of the IDO pathway inhibitor indoximod in combination with
pembrolizumab for patients with advanced melanoma. Cancer Res 2017;
77(13 Suppl): Abstract nr CT117.
Zimmer L, Apuri S, Eroglu Z, et al. Ipilimumab alone or in combination with
nivolumab after progression on anti-PD-1 therapy in advanced melanoma.
Eur J Cancer 2017; 75:47–55.

86

Teixeira de Sousa et al.

2.2 Merkel Cell Carcinoma
S. Bhatia1
J. Becker 2,3
 epartment of Medicine/Medical Oncology, University of Washington,
D
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle Cancer Care Alliance,
Seattle, WA, USA
2
Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Essen, Essen, Germany
3
Translational Skin Cancer Research (TSCR), German Cancer Consortium
(DKTK), Essen, Germany
1

Overview
Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is an aggressive skin malignancy with
a high disease-associated mortality rate. The carcinogenesis of MCC
in the northern hemisphere is predominantly associated with the Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV) in around 80% of tumours and a high
mutational burden characterised by an ultraviolet (UV) signature in the
remainder. Both viral- and UV-associated carcinogenesis result in persistent expression of immunogenic antigens (viral proteins or neoantigens), which provides a strong rationale for testing immunotherapy in
this disease (Becker et al, 2017). Indeed, immune checkpoint inhibitors
(ICIs) for treatment of metastatic MCC are extremely effective and have
led to a remarkable improvement in patient outcomes. In this chapter,
we review the recent advances in MCC treatment with a special focus
on ICIs. We also discuss the currently unmet treatment needs of MCC
patients and the future directions for MCC research.

Introduction
MCC is an aggressive neuroendocrine skin cancer with a diseaseassociated case fatality rate three times that of malignant melanoma
(46% versus 15%). MCC is an uncommon cancer with an estimated
2500 cases in the United States in 2013. The number of cases in Europe

87

is less clear, since most of the cancer registries are restricted to individual
countries; however, it is assumed that the incidence is comparable to that
of the Caucasian population in the United States (Stang et al, 2018). The
reported incidence is constantly increasing since the initial description
by Toker in 1972. This increase is in part due to heightened awareness
and improved detection, but is also likely due to the higher prevalence of
known risk factors for MCC (immune suppression; Caucasian >50 years
of age with extensive prior sun exposure).
MCC is an aggressive cancer with prognosis dependent on the stage at
presentation. Stages I and II represent low-risk and high-risk primary
disease, respectively, while stages III and IV include the presence of
nodal and distant metastases, respectively. The reported 5-year relative survival (an estimate for disease-specific survival) for patients with
local, nodal and metastatic disease is 64%, 39% and 18%, respectively.
Although surgery and/or radiotherapy (RT) may be curative for patients
with loco-regional MCC without distant metastases, relapse is common
and often difficult to treat. There is no established adjuvant systemic
therapy after definitive management. For patients with distant metastatic
disease not amenable to surgery or RT, systemic chemotherapy (ChT)
was, until recently, the only treatment option beside best supportive
care. The reported objective response rate (ORR) with either mono- or
poly-ChT regimens is high, in some reports up to 60%. However, the
clinical benefit is usually short-lived with a median progression-free survival (PFS) of only 3 months, and the impact on survival is unclear and
thought to be modest at best.
Fortunately, rapid strides have recently been made in our understanding
of the biology of MCC providing a strong rationale for the investigation
of immunotherapies in this aggressive disease. These initial investigations have been extremely successful, leading to remarkable advances in
therapies for metastatic MCC in a relatively short period of time.

Immunology of MCC
Epidemiological data had long suggested a strong link between MCC
and the immune system. Individuals with T cell dysfunction (solid organ
transplant recipients, human immunodeficiency virus [HIV]-infected

88

Bhatia and Becker

patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [AIDS] or chronic
lymphocytic leukaemia patients) have a 5- to 15-fold increased risk of
developing MCC (Stang et al, 2018). MCC tumours sometimes regress
following improvement in immune function. Additionally, there are several reported cases (Pang et al, 2015) of complete spontaneous regression
(a far greater number than expected for its rarity). These epidemiological data had raised the possibility of an infectious aetiology for MCC.
Indeed, the discovery of the MCPyV in 2008 provided the missing link
between MCC and its strong association with the immune system. This
strong association was independently confirmed in an unbiased gene
expression analysis of MCC tumours, which revealed overexpression
of immune response genes in tumours with favourable prognoses (Paulson et al, 2011). Intra-tumoural infiltration of CD8+ lymphocytes was
found to be an independent predictor of improved survival among MCC
patients in a cohort of 156 MCC cases. It should be noted, however, that
a substantial number of these cases did not express the MCPyV-derived
oncoproteins on a messenger RNA (mRNA) level. Indeed, approximately
20% of MCC cases in the United States and Europe, and up to 70% of
cases in Australia, lack detectable tumour-associated MCPyV DNA or
oncoproteins. Strikingly, the mutational burden of virus-negative MCC
is even higher than that of melanoma, and has a signature suggestive of
UV-induced mutations. It is likely that these genetic changes lead to generation and expression of novel epitopes and subsequently, neoantigendirected immune responses. Thus, these observations readily explain the
important role of cellular immune responses in the natural history of
both MCPyV- and UV-associated MCC.
Since the discovery of the prognostic impact of CD8+ tumour infiltrating
lymphocytes (TILs), our understanding of the host–virus immune interactions in MCC pathogenesis has increased rapidly with new insights
into both humoural and cellular immunity in MCC patients. In patients
with MCPyV-positive (MCPyV+) tumours, there is now ample evidence
for ongoing expression of viral proteins in tumour cells and their recognition by the adaptive (humoural as well as cellular) arm of the immune
system. Levels of MCPyV T antigen-specific antibodies correlate with
tumour burden in MCC patients, and this observation has led to the
development of a clinically validated assay (AMERK) for surveillance
2.2 Merkel Cell Carcinoma

89

of high-risk patients with MCPyV+ MCC tumours. MCPyV-specific
T cells have been isolated from the peripheral blood or tumours of
affected patients and are even being investigated for therapy after ex vivo
expansion and adoptive transfer.
Despite this persistent expression of immunogenic proteins, MCCs that
become clinically evident are able to evade host immune responses. Our
understanding of the immune evasion mechanisms employed by MCC
tumours continues to evolve rapidly. The progression from the immune
equilibrium phase to the immune escape phase may occur due to changes
in tumour cell population that may acquire new immune-evasive characteristics, or due to changes in the host immune system that may get
suppressed either generally or more selectively toward the tumour cells.
Both of these broad mechanistic categories appear relevant to MCC. The
tumour cell characteristics include mechanisms such as down-regulation
of antigen presentation, resulting in major histocompatibility complex
(MHC)-I loss to become ‘less visible’ to the adaptive immune system,
or decreased susceptibility to immune control mechanisms to become
‘more resistant’ to the effects of the cytotoxic immune cells. The host
immune features include systemic immune suppression, either therapeutically or due to co-morbid immune suppressive diseases, or more commonly due to immune senescence, an erosion of the immune response
with ageing. MCC tumour cells also establish a local immune suppressive tumour microenvironment (TME) via production of immunosuppressive cytokines, or via recruitment of immunosuppressive cells, such
as CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) or myeloid-derived suppressor
cells. In response to chronic antigen exposure, antigen-specific CD8+ T
cells in the MCC TME often develop an exhausted phenotype with poor
effector function, sustained expression of inhibitory receptors (such as
programmed cell death protein 1 [PD-1], T cell immunoglobulin and
mucin domain 3 [TIM-3]), and a transcriptional state distinct from that
of functional effector or memory T cells.

Immunotherapy of MCC
The above-mentioned data have provided the rationale for immunomodulation to treat MCC. These immunotherapy efforts have focused on a

90

Bhatia and Becker

multitude of approaches aiming to render cancer cells more visible to
the immune cells, reinvigorate existing immune responses, generate new
ones or simply use the viral targets for selective delivery of cancer therapeutics to tumours. Several early phase immunotherapy trials, including
intra-tumoural interleukin-12 (IL-12) injection, intra-tumoural injection of the toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonist G100 and adoptive T cell
therapy, have all provided preliminary evidence of the potential efficacy
of a variety of immune-based approaches in MCC. However, the most
remarkable successes have occurred with the ICIs, which are discussed
in detail below.
ICIs
The discovery of programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression
on tumour and immune cells in both MCPyV+ and MCPyV-negative
(MCPyV-) MCC tumours provided a rationale for investigating checkpoint inhibitors targeting PD-1 or PD-L1 in MCC. The presence of PD-1
and PD-L1 in the MCC TME reflects the result of chronic antigen presentation of processed viral proteins and UV-induced neoantigens. Consequently, anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 antibodies have been investigated
as first-line and as second-line or later therapy in patients with advancedstage MCC.
Pembrolizumab is a humanised immunoglobulin (Ig)G4 anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody (mAb) and is being investigated for first-line systemic
treatment of immunocompetent patients with advanced MCC in a phase
II clinical trial (NCT02267603). The first report of this trial included 26
patients with unresectable stage IIIB or stage IV MCC, of whom 16%
had a complete response (CR) and 40% a partial response (PR), resulting in an ORR of 56% (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours
[RECIST] v1.1). While the ORR is not strikingly different from what
would have been expected from front-line ChT, the responses and PFS
are remarkably more durable than those expected from ChT (Figure 1).
Twelve of the 14 confirmed responses (86%) were ongoing at last follow-up, with the median follow-up being close to 8 months. Response to
pembrolizumab did not correlate significantly with PD-L1 expression, a
biomarker that has been evaluated extensively in several trials of PD-1
2.2 Merkel Cell Carcinoma

91

pathway blockers. Importantly, responses were seen in both MCPyV+
and MCPyV- tumours, consistent with immunogenicity of both subtypes.
Twenty-six patients were included in the safety analysis and treatment
was generally well tolerated, with 77% of patients reporting an adverse
event (AE) of any grade, of which 15% were grade 3 or 4. AEs were
consistent with prior reports in other cancer types and were managed
well through the discontinuation of pembrolizumab and, if necessary,
glucocorticoid treatment. The results also led to the listing of pembrolizumab as a therapeutic option in the 2017 National Cancer Center Network (NCCN) guidelines.
Concurrently with the above-mentioned study, another phase II study
(NCT02155647) was investigating avelumab in immunocompetent
patients with metastatic MCC who had previously received one or more
lines of cytotoxic ChT. Avelumab is a human IgG1 anti-PD-L1 mAb
with a wild-type IgG1 fragment crystallisable (Fc) region that may, in
addition to blocking PD-1/PD-L1 interactions, activate natural killer
(NK) antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). In this much
larger pivotal phase II trial, 88 patients with ChT-refractory distant metastatic (stage IV) disease were treated, of whom 9% had a CR and 23% a
PR, resulting in an ORR of 32%. Responses were impressively durable,
with the proportion of responses of ≥6 months being 92%. Similar to the
pembrolizumab study, responses to avelumab occurred quickly (generally at the time of the first scan at 6 weeks) and occurred irrespective of
PD-L1 expression or MCPyV status of the MCC tumours. Avelumab
was well tolerated, with 70% of patients reporting an AE, but only 5% of
grade 3 and no grade 4 events. Only fatigue (24%) and infusion-related
reaction (17%) occurred in more than 10% of patients. Based on the
impressive results from this phase II study, avelumab received approval
by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA), SwissMedic
and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in 2017 for the treatment
of metastatic MCC, regardless of prior ChT administration. This trial
was expanded to include MCC patients who are treatment-naïve to systemic therapy in the metastatic setting. Preliminary results of the first 39
patients enrolled in part B were presented at the 2017 European Society
for Medical Oncology (ESMO) congress. At the time of the data cut-off,
the ORR with first-line avelumab was 62%, with 14% of patients experi-

92

Bhatia and Becker

Figure 1 Comparison of PFS and other outcomes in patients with advanced MCC treated
with pembrolizumab (panel A) in the first-line setting in a clinical trial (Nghiem et al, 2016)
with patients treated with first-line cytotoxic chemotherapy (panel B) in a retrospective singleinstitution cohort study (Iyer et al, 2016).
Note: These data do not come from a randomised controlled trial, but are derived from two separate studies and,
hence, are fraught with limitations of comparing across studies.
Panel A from Nghiem PT, Bhatia S, Lipson EJ, et al. PD-1 blockade with pembrolizumab in advanced Merkel-cell
carcinoma. N Engl J Med 2016; 374:2542–2552. Reprinted with permission of Massachusetts Medical Society.
Copyright ©2016. Panel B from Iyer JG, Blom A, Doumani R, et al. Response rates and durability of chemotherapy
among 62 patients with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma. Cancer Med 2016; 5:2294–2301.

100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

B

First-line pembrolizumab

First-line chemotherapy

100
80

n=62
Median PFS: 94 days

60
PFS (%)

Progression-free survival (% of patients)

A

n=26
Median PFS: 9 months

40
20
0

0

12

200
400
600
800
1000
Days from start of 1st line chemotherapy

Treatment and outcomes

First-line Pembrolizumab
(N=26)

First-line Chemotherapy
(N=62)

ORR (per RECIST v1.1)

56%

55%

Median DOR

NR
(>8+ months)

2.9 months

Median PFS

9 months

3 months

67%

26%

0

3
6
9
Months since treatment initiation

PFS rate at 6 months

Abbreviations: DOR, duration of response; MCC, Merkel cell carcinoma; NR, not reached; ORR, objective response rate;
PFS, progression-free survival; RECIST, Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours.

encing a CR and 48% of patients experiencing a PR. Sixty-seven per cent
of patients had a PFS rate of 3 months.
Yet another ongoing study (NCT02488759) is investigating nivolumab,
an anti-PD-1 antibody, in patients with virus-associated cancers including MCC. Patients with metastatic MCC are enrolled regardless of
MCPyV status or prior ChT. Preliminary results were presented at the
2.2 Merkel Cell Carcinoma

93

2017 American Association of Cancer Research (AACR) congress.
ORR in 22 patients was an impressive 64%. The majority (75%) of the
responses occurred by ~Week 8. Responses were durable, with 75% of
the responses ongoing at a median follow-up time of ~12 months. As in
the studies mentioned above, responses were noted regardless of PD-L1
expression or MCPyV status. The trial is ongoing and has added another
cohort investigating the combination of nivolumab plus low-dose ipilimumab (1 mg/kg) in metastatic MCC patients. This trial is also investigating the neo-adjuvant use of nivolumab (two doses total) in locoregional MCC prior to surgery (± RT).
The impressive and concordant results from the above-mentioned trials
using three different drugs blocking the PD-1/PD-L1 interaction have
offered powerful new options to clinicians for managing advanced MCC.
All of these ICIs have been remarkably well tolerated with low rates of
≥grade 3 treatment-related AEs and no treatment-related deaths. The
response rates appear to be higher in treatment-naïve patients and lower
in patients with prior ChT exposure. The responses occur quickly and at a
frequency similar to that expected with front-line ChT, but are much more
durable and will likely lead to a meaningful improvement in overall survival, with reasonably good quality of life (QoL). Additionally, these studies suggest that in both MCPyV+ and MCPyV- tumours, a large proportion
of patients have MCC-specific T cells that can be reactivated to provide
clinically beneficial anti-tumour activity. Taken together, these data suggest that PD-1/PD-L1-based immunotherapy should be considered as
the new standard-of-care for treatment of patients with metastatic MCC,
regardless of MCPyV status. This is reflected in the recent listing of avelumab, pembrolizumab and nivolumab as the preferred treatment options
for metastatic MCC in the 2018 NCCN guidelines, although avelumab is
currently the only FDA- and EMA-approved therapy for metastatic MCC.

Unmet Needs and Future Directions
The durable responses to PD-1/PD-L1-blocking antibodies confirm the
importance of immune mechanisms in MCC pathogenesis. However,
not all patients respond to immunotherapy and some develop secondary
resistance. Thus, a key question remains as to what tumour or host char-

94

Bhatia and Becker

acteristics might be used to predict response and/or resistance. In addition
to finding predictive biomarkers, there is a direct unmet need for finding
effective therapies in ~50% of immunocompetent patients who do not
respond to PD-1/PD-L1 blockade. Mechanistic studies to understand both
intrinsic and acquired mechanisms of resistance are critical to uncovering
new rational therapies to overcome these. Given the heterogeneity of MCC
tumours and individual variations in host immune systems, it is unlikely
that one single approach will be effective in all patients. Rather, a combination of various strategies and personalisation to the unique biological
characteristics of MCC tumours in individual patients will be required.
Facilitated by the ongoing excitement surrounding cancer immunotherapy,
several trials of novel immunotherapeutic approaches (both innate and
adaptive) are already ongoing in patients with advanced MCC. One innate
immunotherapy approach is using allogeneic irradiated activated natural
killer (NK)-92 cells (a NK cell line derived from a patient with large granulocytic leukaemia) in combination with an IL-15 agonist in MCC patients who
may have received prior PD-1/PD-L1 blockade (NCT02465957). Another
innate immunotherapy approach is studying intra-tumoural administration
of TTI-621, a recombinant fusion protein targeting CD47, that regulates
phagocytosis in patients with injectable MCC lesions (NCT02890368).
Trials are underway to evaluate the oncolytic virus talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) administered intra-tumourally, both as a monotherapy or in combination with RT (NCT02819843), or with anti-PD-1
(nivolumab) treatment in patients with advanced MCC (NCT02978625).
The profound success with checkpoint inhibitors has also raised interest
in clinical studies using combinations of other therapies with ICIs. A triple-combination study of tremelimumab (an anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte
antigen 4 [CTLA-4] antibody), durvalumab (an anti-PD-L1 antibody), and
TLR3 agonist poly-ICLC in advanced MCC (NCT02643303) is testing the
hypothesis that the TLR3 agonist will influence the TME and potentiate
the activity of the ICIs. A study to investigate localised upregulation of
antigen expression (using RT or interferon) plus adoptive immunotherapy (MCPyV T antigen-specific T cells) with avelumab is also ongoing
(NCT02584829). Efforts are also underway to test the safety and efficacy
of several ICIs (ipilimumab, nivolumab and avelumab) in the adjuvant set2.2 Merkel Cell Carcinoma

95

ting in patients with loco-regional MCC amenable to definitive therapy
with surgery ± RT (NCT02196961 and NCT03271372). It is indeed an
exciting time for investigation of novel targeted and/or immune therapies
in this fascinating malignancy.

Conclusion
An improved understanding of the biology and immunology of MCC
has revolutionised the therapeutic possibilities in advanced MCC. The
immune system appears to be playing a major role in MCC biology,
irrespective of their virus- or UV-associated carcinogenesis. A new era
in the systemic therapy of metastatic MCC has begun with the recent
successes of immune checkpoint blockade. Promising new immunotherapy- and molecularly-targeted therapy approaches are in development.
An improved understanding of tumour immunology and immune escape
mechanisms operative in MCC will facilitate the rational development of
new treatment strategies to overcome primary and secondary resistance
of MCC to immune-modulating therapies.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Bhatia has received advisory board honoraria from Genentech and
EMD-Serono; his institution (University of Washington) has received
research funding from EMD-Serono, Merck, Bristol-Myers Squibb,
Oncosec and Immune Design.
Professor Becker has received speaker honoraria from Amgen, Merck Serono
and Pfizer; he has received advisory board honoraria from Amgen,
CureVac, eTheRNA, Lytix, Merck Serono, Novartis, Rigontec and
Takeda; and he has received research funding from Boehringer Ingelheim,
Bristol-Myers Squibb and Merck Serono. Professor Becker’s activities
with Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck Serono and Pfizer are related to the
submitted report (therapy of advanced MCC).

Further Reading
Afanasiev OK, Yelistratova L, Miller N, et al. Merkel polyomavirus-specific
T cells fluctuate with Merkel cell carcinoma burden and express therapeutically targetable PD-1 and Tim-3 exhaustion markers. Clin Cancer Res 2013;
19:5351–5360.
Bhatia and Becker
96

Becker JC, Stang A, DeCaprio JA, et al. Merkel cell carcinoma. Nat Rev Dis
Primers 2017; 3:17077.
Bhatia S, Afanasiev O, Nghiem P. Immunobiology of Merkel cell carcinoma:
implications for immunotherapy of a polyomavirus-associated cancer. Curr
Oncol Rep 2011; 13:488–497.
Feng H, Shuda M, Chang Y, Moore PS. Clonal integration of a polyomavirus in
human Merkel cell carcinoma. Science 2008; 319:1096–1100.
Goh G, Walradt T, Markarov V, et al. Mutational landscape of MCPyV-positive
and MCPyV-negative Merkel cell carcinomas with implications for immunotherapy. Oncotarget 2016; 7:3403–3415.
Harms PW, Vats P, Verhaegen ME, et al. The distinctive mutational spectra of polyomavirus-negative Merkel cell carcinoma. Cancer Res 2015;
75:3720–3727.
Heath M, Jaimes N, Lemos B, et al. Clinical characteristics of Merkel cell carcinoma at diagnosis in 195 patients: the AEIOU features. J Am Acad Dermatol
2008; 58:375–381.
Houben R, Shuda M, Weinkam R, et al. Merkel cell polyomavirus-infected Merkel cell carcinoma cells require expression of viral T antigens. J Virol 2010;
84:7064–7072.
Iyer JG, Afanasiev OK, McClurkan C, et al. Merkel cell polyomavirus-specific
CD8+ and CD4+ T-cell responses identified in Merkel cell carcinomas and
blood. Clin Cancer Res 2011; 17:6671–6680.
Iyer JG, Blom A, Doumani R, et al. Response rates and durability of chemotherapy among 62 patients with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma. Cancer
Med 2016; 5:2294–2301.
Kaufman HL, Russell J, Hamid O, et al. Avelumab in patients with chemotherapy-refractory metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma: a multicentre, single-group,
open-label, phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 2016; 17:1374–1385.
Nghiem PT, Bhatia S, Lipson EJ, et al. PD-1 blockade with pembrolizumab in
advanced Merkel-cell carcinoma. N Engl J Med 2016; 374:2542–2552.
Nghiem P, Kaufman HL, Bharmal M, et al. Systematic literature review of efficacy, safety and tolerability outcomes of chemotherapy regimens in patients
with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma. Future Oncol 2017; 13:1263–1279.
Pang C, Sharma D, Sankar T. Spontaneous regression of Merkel cell carcinoma: A case report and review of the literature. Int J Surg Case Rep 2015;
7C:104–108.
Paulson KG, Carter JJ, Johnson LG, et al. Antibodies to Merkel cell polyomavirus T antigen oncoproteins reflect tumor burden in merkel cell carcinoma
patients. Cancer Res 2010; 70:8388–8397.

2.2 Merkel Cell Carcinoma

97

Paulson KG, Iyer JG, Tegeder AR, et al. Transcriptome-wide studies of merkel
cell carcinoma and validation of intratumoral CD8+ lymphocyte invasion
as an independent predictor of survival. J Clin Oncol 2011; 29:1539–1546.
Paulson KG, Lewis CW, Redman MW, et al. Viral oncoprotein antibodies as a
marker for recurrence of Merkel cell carcinoma: A prospective validation
study. Cancer 2017; 123:1464–1474.
Schadendorf D, Lebbé C, Zur Hausen A, et al. Merkel cell carcinoma: Epidemiology, prognosis, therapy and unmet medical needs. Eur J Cancer 2017;
71:53–69.
Shuda M, Feng H, Kwun HJ, et al. T antigen mutations are a human tumorspecific signature for Merkel cell polyomavirus. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
2008; 105:16272–16277.
Stang A, Becker JC, Nghiem P, Ferlay J. The association between geographic
location and incidence of Merkel cell carcinoma in comparison to melanoma: an international assessment. Eur J Cancer 2018; 94:47–60.
Toker C. Trabecular carcinoma of the skin. Arch Dermatol 1972; 105:107–110.
Wong SQ, Waldeck K, Vergara IA, et al. UV-associated mutations underlie
the etiology of MCV-negative Merkel cell carcinomas. Cancer Res 2015;
75:5228–5234.

98

Bhatia and Becker

2.3 Thoracic Malignancies
2.3.1 Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
S. Peters
S. Zimmermann
Oncology Department, Lausanne University Hospital, Lausanne, Switzerland

Current Scope of Immunotherapy of NSCLC
Lung cancer, of which non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) represents
85%, accounts for 13% of all cancer diagnoses worldwide, and remains
the leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide. Mortality rates in Europe
and North America are now declining in men, and in some countries
in women, reflecting the evolution of the tobacco epidemic. The aetiological association with exposure to tobacco carcinogens is of particular relevance for cancer immunotherapy, as current approaches targeting immune checkpoints exhibit increased responses in tumours with a
high number of somatic mutations, such as smoking-induced NSCLC.
Conversely, immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) has been significantly
less successful in never-smokers, including a majority of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-rearranged or epidermal growth factor receptor
(EGFR)-mutated NSCLC. Overall, an estimated 25% of NSCLCs are
not directly attributable to smoking, representing 15% in men and 53%
in women, globally.
Blockade of the programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)–programmed
death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) receptor–ligand pair, a dominant mediator of
immune resistance in the tumour microenvironment (TME), represents
the mainstay of current immunotherapy of NSCLC. Anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) nivolumab and pembrolizumab, and anti-PDL1 mAb atezolizumab have all demonstrated an improvement in overall
survival (OS) compared with chemotherapy (ChT) in the second line and

99

later lines of therapy of advanced NSCLC. Pembrolizumab has demonstrated an OS benefit over cisplatin-based doublet ChT in NSCLC
patients with high PD-L1 expression (≥50% on tumour cells [TCs])
in the front-line setting. Furthermore, consolidation therapy with durvalumab delays tumour progression or death after chemoradiotherapy
(CRT) of locally advanced (LA) NSCLC. Studies of adjuvant therapy of
early disease with the same compounds are ongoing. Beyond blockade of
the PD-1/PD-L1 axis, combination approaches directed at other immune
checkpoints including cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4),
immuno-oncology (IO)–IO combinations, IO–ChT combinations, as
well as cellular immunotherapy using tumour infiltrating lymphocytes
(TILs), dendritic cell vaccines and more, are being actively investigated,
but have not yet been established in phase III studies and/or received
regulatory approval. Individual trial results will be further developed in
this chapter.

Predictive Biomarkers of Immunotherapy
Response of Clinical Relevance
Predictive biomarkers that can direct the rational use of PD-1/PD-L1
checkpoint inhibitors are warranted by the low response rates (RRs) in
the range of 20% observed in an unselected pre-treated NSCLC population. Currently, PD-L1 expression level by immunohistochemistry (IHC)
on TCs and possibly on tumour infiltrating immune cells is the only biomarker of immunotherapy response of clinical relevance, and the only
biomarker having been prospectively validated in at least one randomised
trial. PD-L1 expression can be used to prioritise treatment sequencing
(i.e. first-line therapy for high expressors), but it cannot be defined as
an absolute selection criterion, as well demonstrated by the existence of
responses and clinical benefit over standard therapy in pre-treated patients
despite PD-L1 negativity. Due to parallel development of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), a number of antibodies (28-8, 22C3, SP142,
SP263) using various platforms (Dako, Ventana, Leica), methodologies,
tumour material, scoring methods and PD-L1 thresholds have been developed. A robust consensus cannot currently be reached, and harmonisation
as well as quality assessment efforts are urgently needed.

100

Peters and Zimmermann

The Blueprint PD-L1 IHC Assay Comparison Project, an industry–academic collaboration, compared the four assays used in clinical trials.
Despite the observation of an identical performance of three assays out
of four on TCs (28-8, 22C3, SP263), it also showed that interchanging
the testing assay can lead to patient misclassification. In addition, biological limitations of these assays should be highlighted, including temporal
and treatment-related fluctuations, as well as a significant intratumoural
heterogeneity. Of current clinical use is the companion diagnostic test
22C3 required for the use of pembrolizumab in pre-treated patients, for
whom ≥1% positivity is required, and for the use of pembrolizumab in
the front-line setting, where ≥50% positivity is required. Testing is either
not required (28-8 or SP263 for nivolumab, SP142 for atezolizumab)
or not approved in all other clinical situations, outside clinical trials to
date. Other possibly non-correlated immune biomarkers are under active
investigation, including:
n
Tumour mutational load derived from whole-exome sequencing or
gene-panel testing
n
Immune gene signatures using microarray or RNA sequencing
(RNAseq)
n
T cell receptor (TCR) clonality
n
TILs phenotype by multiparametric IHC
First-line Therapy
Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies have become a standard-of-care (SoC) in
the first-line setting for most NSCLC patient subgroups, either as monotherapy, or as part of a ChT-IO or IO-IO combination.
In patients with PD-L1 expression on ≥50% of TCs (as assessed by the
22C3 assay in the trial) and no EGFR-sensitising mutation or ALK gene
rearrangement, pembrolizumab was associated with significantly longer
progression-free survival (PFS) and OS, with fewer adverse events
(AEs) than platinum-based doublet ChT. Median PFS (mPFS), the primary endpoint, reached 10.3 months versus 6 months (hazard ratio [HR]
for progression or death 0.50), and median OS (mOS) 30 versus 14.2
months (HR for death 0.63), with a 24-month OS rate of 51.5% versus
2.3.1 Non-small Cell Lung Cancer

101

34.5% for pembrolizumab and ChT, respectively. Also improved were
RR (44.8% versus 27.8%), median duration of response and grade 3 or
higher treatment-related AEs (trAEs): 26.6% versus 53.3%. These efficacy and tolerability results establish pembrolizumab monotherapy as
the standard first-line therapy in this patient population.
Several randomised phase III studies have demonstrated an OS benefit
for the addition of anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies to platinum-based doublet ChT. In non-squamous NSCLC patients, the addition of pembrolizumab to platinum drugs and pemetrexed improved 12-month survival
from 49.4% to 69.2%, and RRs from 18.9% to 47.6%; the addition of
atezolizumab to carboplatin, paclitaxel and bevacizumab improved OS
(HR for death 0.78). In squamous NSCLC, the addition of pembrolizumab to carboplatin and paclitaxel/nab-paclitaxel improved median OS
from 11.3 to 15.9 months (HR for death 0.64). In all these trials, the OS
benefit was seen across all relevant patient subgroups, including those
with low or absent tumour and/or immune cell PD-L1 expression. Furthermore, the rate of grade 3 or higher AEs, in the range of 58 to 69%,
was not increased by the addition of the checkpoint inhibitors.
Adding further complexity to first-line immunotherapy, a high tumour
mutational burden (TMB), defined as ≥10 mutations (somatic, coding
base substitutions and short indels) per megabase of genome by the
FoundationOne CDx assay, defines a population that derives a significant
PFS benefit from an ipilimumab and nivolumab combination as compared with platinum-based doublet ChT (HR for disease progression or
death 0.58), with 43% versus 13% of patients being progression-free at
1 year. TMB was independent of PD-L1 expression level. While OS data
remain immature at the time of writing, these data support consideration
of both PD-L1 expression levels and TMB as predictive biomarkers for
clinical decision-making in the first-line setting.
Second and Later Lines of Therapy
Nivolumab, pembrolizumab and atezolizumab have all been compared
to SoC docetaxel in NSCLC patients pre-treated with platinum-based
ChT, all showing an improvement in OS. Nivolumab improved OS in
non-squamous NSCLC patients from 9.4 months to 12.2 months (HR

102

Peters and Zimmermann

for death 0.78), and in squamous NSCLC patients from 6 to 9.2 months
(HR for death 0.59). Pembrolizumab improved OS in PD-L1-positive
NSCLC patients pre-treated with one line of platinum-based ChT from
8.2 to 14.9 months (HR for death 0.54). Atezolizumab improved OS in
NSCLC patients pre-treated with one or two lines of ChT from 9.6 to
13.8 months (HR for death 0.73). In the latter trial, OS benefit was consistent across subgroups including PD-L1-negative NSCLC, with the
noteworthy exception of EGFR-mutated NSCLC, where RRs were as
low as 5% and HR for death ranged from 1.18 to 1.24. Never-smokers
derived less benefit, with an HR of 0.71–1.02 compared with current or
former smokers.
PFS is generally not consistently improved in an unselected population.
To date, OS is considered as a better endpoint to evaluate immunotherapy
for the treatment of NSCLC. This specificity might be attributed to the
non-proportional HR observed for the benefit of IO versus ChT, requiring a sufficient observation time, as well as to a combination of factors
including some cases of pseudoprogression and the probable existence
of antitumour immune activity beyond progression and along subsequent
lines of therapies. Duration of responses is consistently longer with ICB
than with docetaxel, in the range of 16–17.2 months. Patient-reported outcomes (PROs) and AEs strongly favour ICB, with patients’ health status
improving from baseline during the first year of treatment, while docetaxel
patients’ health status remained stable relative to baseline during their
shorter time on treatment. The incidence of grade ≥3 trAEs is 15% versus
40%–50% for ICB and docetaxel, respectively. Exploratory analyses of
a randomised trial suggest that treatment should be administered at least
until progression or unacceptable toxicity, rather than for a fixed duration.
Whether this also applies specifically to patients in complete response is
unknown and further data regarding treatment duration are greatly needed.
The efficacy and tolerability results of these four trials establish ICB with
anti-PD-1/PD-L1 mAbs in monotherapy as an SoC after platinum-based
ChT, with the current exception of EGFR-mutant and ALK-rearranged
NSCLC, where tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and docetaxel should be
considered first outside clinical trials, and the benefit of immunotherapy
is reported to be lower although still existing in some of these patients.
2.3.1 Non-small Cell Lung Cancer

103

Immunotherapy in Particular Subsets of NSCLC
The role of ICB has been less well studied in patients with untreated central nervous system (CNS) metastases, with common actionable genetic
driver alterations, in patients with pre-existing autoimmune disorders, in
elderly patients and/or patients with poor PS.
Patients with brain metastases (BMs) have generally been either excluded
from clinical trials or included only after prior local therapy (radiotherapy or surgery). Limited evidence on the safety and activity of ICB in
patients with stable, asymptomatic untreated BMs does not allow firm
conclusions on safety and activity to be drawn. In patients with treated
BMs, ICB is not associated with a higher incidence of AEs. Subgroup
analyses from one phase III trial showed a significant OS benefit of atezolizumab in patients with baseline BMs compared with docetaxel (HR
for death 0.54, versus 0.75 in the cohort without BMs). Furthermore, the
time to development of new BMs was significantly prolonged (HR 0.42).
These data establish ICB as the SoC in the second line, provided BMs
are supratentorial, asymptomatic and have been successfully treated. The
safety and efficacy in patients with spinal metastases or leptomeningeal
disease remains unknown.
ICB in EGFR-mutated or ALK-rearranged NSCLC has only been evaluated in subgroup analyses of phase III trials. A meta-analysis of relevant
trials showed no OS benefit over docetaxel for EGFR-mutated NSCLC
in the second-line setting. Overall, RRs in the EGFR-mutated subgroup
have been significantly lower than in the wild-type population, with
higher PD-L1 expression being associated with higher RRs. The subset
of ALK-positive (ALK+) NSCLC has consistently been too small to reach
meaningful conclusions. The only prospective trial performed in heavily
pre-treated patients nonetheless suggested an encouraging OS, leaving
ICB as an attractive option after platinum-based ChT and at least one
TKI. An ongoing prospective randomised trial is evaluating the role of
ICB after first-line EGFR TKI in T790M- NSCLC patients (CheckMate
722, NCT02864251).
ICB in elderly or poor PS patients relies on limited evidence, but represents an attractive option due to the manageable safety profile. In the large

104

Peters and Zimmermann

CheckMate 171 trial, the safety of nivolumab was consistent with prior
studies of nivolumab in previously treated squamous NSCLC, with no
new safety signals. Tolerability in patients aged ≥70 years (n=279) or with
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) PS 2 (n=98) was comparable with the overall population (Popat et al, 2017).
ICB in patients with pre-existing autoimmune disorders is developed in
Chapter 3.3 (Immunotherapy in Special Populations)

Immunotherapy of Locally Advanced NSCLC
About one-third of NSCLC patients present with locally advanced (LA)
disease, which carries a poor prognosis, with an OS rate of 15% at 5 years,
mainly due to distant relapse. Consolidation therapy with the anti-PD-L1
mAb durvalumab after CRT of unresectable stage III NSCLC increased
mPFS from 5.6 to 16.8 months compared with placebo (HR for progression or death 0.52), with a consistently observed benefit across subgroups.
Also improved was time to death or distant metastasis. OS data were
immature at the time of presentation. The rate of irAEs was 24% in the
durvalumab group versus 8% with placebo, with no significant increase
in the rate of severe (grade ≥3) pneumonitis (3.4% with durvalumab versus 2.6% with placebo); treatment discontinuation rate due to pneumonitis
was 6.3% versus 4.3%. Pending the presentation of OS data, improvement
of PFS of almost 17 months is unprecedented in stage III NSCLC, and
this clinically meaningful difference merits consideration of durvalumab
as a new SoC consolidation therapy after CRT; durvalumab is being further evaluated in resectable NSCLC in randomised trials (CheckMate
816 [NCT02998528]), as well as in unresectable LA-NSCLC after CRT
(CheckMate 816 [NCT02998528]) (Table 1).

Immunotherapy for Early-stage NSCLC
Adjuvant ICB after surgical resection is being investigated in several randomised trials: KEYNOTE-091/PEARLS (NCT02504372), IMpower10
(NCT02486718), BR 31 (NCT02273375) and ANVIL (NCT02595944); see
Table 1. Due to the nature of the disease-free survival (DFS) endpoint, results
are not expected before 2021.
2.3.1 Non-small Cell Lung Cancer

105

Table 1 Ongoing Randomised Phase II and Phase III Trials in Early and Locally
Advanced NSCLC
Strategy
Neoadjuvant IB-IIIA
Neoadjuvant IIIA
Neoadjuvant IA-IIIA
(1 station)
Neoadjuvant IB (>3 cm)–IIIA
Neoadjuvant IB (>4 cm)–IIIA
non N2
Neoadjuvant IB-IIIA
Neoadjuvant IB-IIIA
Neoadjuvant IIIA
Neoadjuvant I (>2 cm)–IIIA

Trial (NCT
reference)
CheckMate 816
(NCT02998528)
(NCT03081689)
(NCT03158129)
TOP 1501
(NCT02818920)
PRINCEPS
(NCT02994576)
MAC
(NCT02716038)
(NCT02927301)
SAKK 16/14
(NCT02572843)
(NCT02904954)

Clinical
Phase
III

Treatment

Patient
target
326

Primary endpoint
MPR

46
66

PFS
MPR

II

Nivo+ipi vs
ChT
Nivo+ChT
Nivo or
Nivo+ipi
Pembro

32

Surgical feasibility

II

Atezo

60

II

Atezo + ChT

30

Toxicities leading to
surgical delay
MPR

II
II

Atezo
Durva + ChT

180
68

MPR
EFS

II

60

DFS

81

R0 resection

II
II

Neoadjuvant IB-II

IONESCO
(NCT03030131)

II

Durva or
Durva +SBRT
Durva

Adjuvant IB (>4 cm)–IIIA

ANVIL
(NCT02595944)
PEARLS
(NCT02504372)
IMpower010
(NCT02486718)
BR-31
(NCT02273375)

III

Nivo vs obs

714

III

Pembro vs
placebo
Atezo vs BSC

1380

DFS
OS
DFS

1127

DFS

Adjuvant IB (>4 cm)–IIIA
Adjuvant IB (>4 cm)–IIIA
Adjuvant IB (>4 cm)–IIIA
Unresectable IIIA/B
Unresectable IIIA/B
Unresectable IIIA/B
Unresectable I

RTOG 3505
(NCT02768558)
ETOP Nicolas
(NCT02434081)
(NCT03102242)
(NCT03050554)

III
III

Durva vs
placebo

1100

DFS

III

CRT —> Nivo
vs placebo
Nivo + CRT

660

OS
PFS
Grade ≥3
pneumonitis
DCR
RFS

II
II
(I) / II

Atezo —> CRT
Avelumab +
SBRT

78
63
56

Abbreviations: Atezo, atezolizumab; BSC, best supportive care; ChT, chemotherapy; CRT, chemoradiotherapy; DCR, diseasecontrol rate; DFS, disease-free survival; Durva, durvalumab; EFS, event-free survival; ETOP, European Thoracic Oncology Platform;
ipi, ipilimumab; MPR, major pathological response; NCT, clinicaltrials.gov identifier; Nivo, nivolumab; NSCLC, non-small cell lung
cancer; obs, observation; OS, overall survival; Pembro, pembrolizumab; PFS, progression-free survival; R0, no tumour at the
margin; RFS, recurrence-free survival; RTOG, Radiation Therapy Oncology Group; SBRT, stereotactic body radiotherapy.

106

Peters and Zimmermann

Potential Future Developments
Securing better outcomes for NSCLC patients requires sharper patient
selection through efficient immune profiling, the rational use of drug
combinations and better study endpoints to accelerate development.
The multiple methods currently available to monitor the mechanisms of
immune escape and the effects of therapeutic measures (in situ immunophenotyping, genomic and transcriptomic analyses, among others) will
be integrated into a bio-informatic routine able to condense the information into the essential features needed to guide clinical decision-making.
Combinations tailored to the immune microenvironment will maximise
efficacy by tackling the mechanisms of immune escape. Agents currently
in clinical and preclinical investigation in NSCLC will lead to combinations that will enlarge the proportion of patients exhibiting a tumour
response, including:
n
Immune checkpoint modulators (anti-PD-1/PD-L1, CTLA-4, T cell
immunoglobulin and mucin domain 3 [TIM-3], lymphocyteactivation gene 3 [LAG-3], KIR, OX40, NKG2A, V-domain
immunoglobulin suppressor of T cell activation [VISTA], etc.)
n
Agents enhancing cellular effector function (CD122-biased interleukin-2 [IL-2] variants, IL-15 superagonists, IL-2-based fusion immunocytokines, transforming growth factor-beta [TGF-β]-traps, etc.)
n
Adjuvants (stimulator of interferon genes [STING] agonists)
n
Metabolic immunotherapy agents (indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase
[IDO] inhibitors, A2a receptor inhibitors)
n
Adjuvants promoting antigen-presenting cell function (toll-like
receptor agonists)

2.3.1 Non-small Cell Lung Cancer

107

5.9‡

0.58
(0.37–0.92)

7.2‡

0.69
(0.45–1.05)

Non-squamous
17.1‡

9.0‡

0.59
17.6††
(0.43–0.82)

9.9††

9.3‡

Squamous

0.90
14††
(0.66–1.24)
15.7

10.1‡

≥1% (TC1/2/3 or IC1/2/3)
Cross histology

Non-squamous
10.4‡

15.6
0.73
(0.59–0.89)†

7.6††

8.7‡

9.36

Squamous

12.19
12.6

#

<1% (TC0 and IC0)
Cross histology

Non-squamous

0.59
(0.43–0.81)*

8.9

6.01

Squamous

Peters and Zimmermann

9.23

13.8

OS
Nivo Doc
HR
N=292 N=290 (95% CI)

Primary endpoint OS
Efficacy
Nivo Doc
HR
N=135 N=137 (95% CI)
Median OS, months
Cross histology

108
11.3††

8.7††

10.3

11.2††

7.1††

8.9

11.2

7.7

9.6

0.72††

0.71††

13.4††

8.6

OS and PFS
2 mg/kg 10 mg/kg Doc
N=344 N=346 N=343

2 mg/kg: 0.73
(0.62–0.87)
10 mg/kg: 0.59
(0.49–0.71)††

HR
(95% CI)

1033
2L+ Metastatic NSCLC (PD-L1 TPS ≥1%)

KEYNOTE-010
• Pembrolizumab 2 mg/kg q3w
• Pembrolizumab 10 mg/kg q3w

0.74
10.5††
(0.58–0.93)

0.75††

0.75
(0.59–0.96)
0.82††

0.73
(0.62–0.87)
0.73
(0.54–0.89)
0.73
(0.60–0.89)

850
2L+ Stage IIIB/IV or recurrent
NSCLC
OS
Atezo Doc
HR
N=425 N=425 (95% CI)

OAK
Atezolizumab 1200 mg q3w

582
2L+ NSQ Stage IIIB/IV NSCLC

CheckMate 057
Nivolumab 3 mg/kg q2w

N
272
Patient population 2L SQ Stage IIIB/IV NSCLC

CheckMate 017
Nivolumab 3 mg/kg q2w

Trial
Study drug

Table 2 Phase III Trials of Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 Checkpoint Inhibitors in Advanced
Pre-treated NSCLC, Median OS Results

0.40

11.6††
8.7††

8.9

11.3††

9.7††

0.57††
0.35††

0.41
14.9
(0.27–0.64)

0.61††

0.67
(0.49–0.90)
0.76††

8.2

2 mg/kg: 0.54
(0.38–0.77)
10 mg/kg: 0.50
(0.36–0.70)††

Abbreviations: 2L, second-line; ASCO, American Society of Clinical Oncology; Atezo, atezolizumab; CI, confidence interval; Doc, docetaxel; HR, hazard ratio;
IC, immune cell; N/A, not applicable;Nivo, nivolumab; NSCLC, non-small cell lung cancer; NSQ, non-squamous; OS, overall survival; PD-1, programmed cell death protein
1; PD-L1, programmed death-ligand 1; PFS, progression-free survival; qXw, every X weeks; SQ, squamous; TC, tumour cell; TPS, tumour proportion score; WCLC, World
Conference on Lung Cancer.

#

*

17.3

KEYNOTE-010
• Pembrolizumab 2 mg/kg q3w
• Pembrolizumab 10 mg/kg q3w

HR 96.85% CI; †HR 95.92% CI; ‡ASCO 2015; ††WCLC 2016.
BMS PD-L1 assay measures PD-L1 expression on tumour cells; Roche PD-L1 assay measures PD-L1 expression on tumour and immune cells.

0.32
(0.20–0.53)

17.5††
22.5††

8‡

Squamous
Non-squamous

19.4‡

18.7††

20.5

0.50
(0.28–0.89)

0.43

Non-squamous
≥50% (TC3 or IC3)#
Cross histology

7.1‡

8.1‡

11‡

18.1‡

Non-squamous
≥10% (N/A)#
Cross histology
Squamous

0.53
(0.31–0.89)

10.4††

6.4‡

10‡

10.8

OAK
Atezolizumab 1200 mg q3w

Squamous

CheckMate 057
Nivolumab 3 mg/kg q2w

16.3

CheckMate 017
Nivolumab 3 mg/kg q2w

≥5% (TC2/3 or IC2/3)#
Cross histology

Trial
Study drug

Table 2 Phase III Trials of Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 Checkpoint Inhibitors in Advanced
Pre-treated NSCLC, Median OS Results (Continued)

2.3.1 Non-small Cell Lung Cancer

109

N
Patient
population
Primary endpoint
Efficacy

110

Peters and Zimmermann

58‡
7‡

25.2

20

3.48

23||

28¶

86‡
57‡

8.4

9

2.83

8||

13¶

23.7

69‡
10‡

18.3§§

19

2.33
0.62
(0.47–0.81)

29||

39§

50.5

88‡
54‡

5.6

12

4.21

16||

23§

39.0

31

40

55

64
15

16.3

13.6

86
43

6.2

13.4

4.0

21

27

41

64||
13||**

NR

18

67||
17||**

NR

18

4.0

OS and PFS
2 mg/kg 10 mg/kg
N=344 N=346

81||
36||**

6.2

9

4.0

Doc
N=343

2 mg/kg:
0.88 (0.73–1.04)
10 mg/kg:
0.79 (0.66–0.94)

HR
(95% CI)

1033
2L+ Metastatic NSCLC (PD-L1 TPS ≥1%)

KEYNOTE-010
• Pembrolizumab 2 mg/kg q3w
• Pembrolizumab 10 mg/kg q3w

0.95
3.9
(0.82–1.10)

850
2L+ Stage IIIB/IV or recurrent
NSCLC
OS
Atezo Doc
HR
N=425 N=425 (95% CI)

OAK
Atezolizumab 1200 mg q3w

0.92
2.8
(0.77–1.11)

OS
Nivo
Doc
HR
N=292 N=290 (95% CI)

OS
Nivo
Doc
HR
N=135 N=137 (95% CI)

42.1

582
2L+ NSQ Stage IIIB/IV NSCLC

CheckMate 057
Nivolumab 3 mg/kg q2w

272
2L SQ Stage IIIB/IV NSCLC

CheckMate 017
Nivolumab 3 mg/kg q2w

‡
ASCO 2015; §ESMO 2015; ¶WCLC 2015; ||ESMO 2016. **Grade 3-5 trAEs
Abbreviations: 2L, second-line; ASCO, American Society of Clinical Oncology; Atezo, atezolizumab; CI, confidence interval; Doc, docetaxel; ESMO, European Society for Medical
Oncology; HR, hazard ratio; mDOR, median duration of response; Nivo, nivolumab; NR, not recorded; NSCLC, non-small cell lung cancer; NSQ, non-squamous; ORR, objective
response rate; OS, overall survival; PD-1, programmed cell death protein 1; PD-L1, programmed death-ligand 1; PFS, progression-free survival; qXw, every X weeks; SQ, squamous;
TPS, tumour proportion score; trAE, treatment-related adverse event; WCLC, World Conference on Lung Cancer.

Safety
trAEs, %
Gr 3-4 trAEs, %

mDOR, months

ORR, %

Median PFS, months

2-year OS, %

18-months OS, %

1-year OS, %

Trial
Study drug

Table 3 Phase III Trials of Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 Checkpoint Inhibitors in Advanced
Pre-treated NSCLC, Landmark OS Results and Further Endpoints

Declaration of Interest:
Professor Peters has reported no conflicts of interest.
Dr Zimmermann has reported no conflicts of interest.

Further Reading
Antonia SJ, Villegas A, Daniel D, et al. Durvalumab after chemoradiotherapy in
stage III non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2017; 377:1919–1929.
Borghaei H, Langer CJ, Gadgeel S, et al. LBA49 – Updated results from KEYNOTE-021 cohort G: a randomized, phase 2 study of pemetrexed and carboplatin (PC) with or without pembrolizumab (pembro) as first-line therapy for
advanced nonsquamous NSCLC. Ann Oncol 2017; 28(suppl_5):v636–637.
Chen DS, Mellman I. Elements of cancer immunity and the cancer-immune set
point. Nature 2017; 541:321–330.
Lee CK, Man J, Lord S, et al. Checkpoint inhibitors in metastatic EGFRmutated non-small cell lung cancer – a meta-analysis. J Thorac Oncol 2017;
12:403–407.
Popat S, Ardizzoni A, Ciuleanu T, et al. 1303PD. Nivolumab in previously treated
patients with metastatic squamous NSCLC: results of a European singlearm, phase 2 trial (CheckMate 171) including patients aged ≥70 years and
with poor performance status. Ann Oncol 2017; 28(suppl_5):v460–v496.
Reck M, Rodríguez-Abreu D, Robinson AG, et al. Pembrolizumab versus chemotherapy for PD-L1-positive non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2016;
375:1823–1833.
Rittmeyer A, Barlesi F, Waterkamp D, et al. Atezolizumab versus docetaxel
in patients with previously treated non-small-cell lung cancer (OAK): a
phase 3, open-label, multicentre randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2017;
389:255–265.

2.3.1 Non-small Cell Lung Cancer

111

2.3 Thoracic Malignancies
2.3.2 Small Cell Lung Cancer
R. Tay1
A. Rossi2
R. Califano1,3
Department of Medical Oncology, The Christie NHS Foundation Trust,
Manchester, UK
2
Department of Medical Oncology, Scientific Institute for Research and Health,
IRCCS Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza, San Giovanni Rotondo (FG), Italy
3
Department of Medical Oncology, Manchester University NHS Foundation
Trust, Manchester; Division of Cancer Sciences, The University of Manchester,
Manchester, UK
1

Introduction
Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) accounts for approximately 15% of all
bronchogenic carcinomas, occurring almost exclusively in current or former smokers. SCLC has distinct clinical and pathological characteristics
defined by rapid growth, propensity for early metastasis, initial response
to chemotherapy (ChT) and radiotherapy (RT) with a high rate of relapse
with treatment-resistant disease.
Initial treatment with concurrent platinum/etoposide and thoracic RT is
the standard-of-care for limited-stage SCLC, yielding response rates of
up to 80%–90%. Data from the phase III CONVERT study confirmed
that there was no significant difference between a once-daily (66 Gy in 33
fractions over 6.5 weeks) and twice-daily (45 Gy in 30 twice-daily fractions over 3 weeks) RT schedule. Patients with stable disease or response
after ChT should be considered for prophylactic cranial irradiation.
Four to six cycles of platinum/etoposide ChT is the standard first-line
treatment for extensive-stage SCLC. No statistically significant difference in overall survival (OS) or progression-free survival (PFS) has been

112

found between cisplatin- and carboplatin-based combinations. Consolidation thoracic RT has been found to improve 2-year OS and PFS in
patients with residual thoracic disease following initial ChT. The survival benefit of thoracic RT does not extend to patients who obtain a
complete response to initial systemic treatment.
Choice of regimen for relapsed disease is dependent on length of
response to initial treatment. Patients with platinum-sensitive disease
(relapse >90 days after completion of ChT) may be re-challenged with
platinum/etoposide. Second-line topotecan or combination therapy
(cyclophosphamide/doxorubicin/vincristine) are acceptable options in
resistant (relapse within 90 days) or refractory (no response to initial
systemic treatment) disease, but have limited efficacy.
Despite good initial response to ChT and availability of second-line
options, the prognosis of SCLC is exceptionally poor. Median OS for limited disease is 15–20 months, diminishing to 8–13 months for extensive
disease, hence the need for novel treatments to improve patient outcomes.
Aside from immunotherapeutic strategies, efforts to identify molecular
targets in SCLC are ongoing. Agents showing potential activity include
the Aurora A kinase inhibitor alisertib and poly(adenosine diphosphateribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors. Molecular targeted agents that
have failed to demonstrate sufficient activity in SCLC include the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor temsirolimus, hedgehog
inhibitor vismodegib and agents targeting insulin-like growth factor 1
receptor (IFG-1R) cixutumumab and linsitinib.
Antibody–drug conjugate rovalpituzumab tesirine (Rova-T) targets
gene delta-like 3 (DLL3). DLL3 is highly expressed in neuroendocrine
tumours, including 80% of SCLC. In a phase I study (NCT01901653),
objective response was observed in 60 patients with progressive SCLC
receiving Rova-T. In 26 patients with high DLL3 expression (>50%), the
objective response rate (ORR) was 39%. On the basis of promising phase
I data, Rova-T is currently under investigation for treatment-naïve and
relapsed/refractory SCLC in a number of ongoing trials.

2.3.2 Small Cell Lung Cancer

113

Rationale for Immunotherapy in SCLC and
Predictors of Response
SCLC is associated with over 200 non-synchronous mutations, of which
95% are single-based substitutions, consistent with exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons present in tobacco smoke. These somatic
mutations are thought to be potential targets for T cells activated by
immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs); however, the individual mutations
predictive for response to checkpoint blockade are yet to be identified. In
certain disease groups associated with a high non-synchronous mutation
load, improved efficacy of ICIs has been observed, leading to a strong
rationale for development of immunotherapy trials in SCLC.
The development of predictive biomarkers is an area of great interest.
Use of tumour programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression as a predictive biomarker has been studied, predominately in the NSCLC population. The methodology for detection and definition of ‘PD-L1 positivity’ is not uniform between trials. Literature suggests that while PD-L1
positivity may enrich for a population that derives the greatest clinical
benefit from anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)/PD-L1 therapy, a low or negative PD-L1 expression does not exclude achieving
a clinical benefit. Use of PD-L1 expression as a predictive biomarker
is also limited by tumour heterogeneity, fluidity of PD-L1 expression
within the tumour microenvironment and lack of standardisation of use
of PD-L1 assays. Further work is required to determine the predictive
impact of PD-L1 expression in SCLC. There is also a fundamental need
to explore additional predictive markers for immunotherapy in SCLC.
Whole-exome sequencing (WES) techniques have been employed to
characterise the mutational landscape in SCLC tumour samples. Exploratory data from CheckMate 032 (NCT01928394) found a correlation
between high tumour mutation burden (TMB) and improved response
rate to combination checkpoint blockade. Further prospective data are
warranted to confirm the predictive nature of TMB.
Early preclinical work in defining the tumour microenvironment in
SCLC associated the presence of tumour infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs)

114

Tay et al.

expressing checkpoint molecules with improved OS. A larger patient
population is required to confirm the predictive and prognostic role of
TILs in SCLC.

Clinical Results
Prior to the era of immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), vaccines and
immunomodulating agents were investigated in SCLC with limited success. The anti-idiotypic antibody Bec2 mimics cell membrane ganglioside GD3, which is overexpressed in up to 60% of SCLCs. Unfortunately,
a randomised phase III study of Bec2/BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guérin)
vaccination failed to show survival benefit in limited-disease SCLC.
Maintenance interferon-alpha (IFN-α) following induction ChT also
failed to demonstrate improved survival.
Contemporary immunotherapy trials in SCLC have largely focused on
ICB. Results from clinical trials investigating immunotherapy in SCLC
are summarised in Table 1.
Table 1 Results from Immunotherapy Trials in SCLC
Drug (Trial
identifier)

Target

a/ Ipilimumab
(NCT01450761)

CTLA-4

Phase N

Regimen

Extensive stage – First-line
1132 PE + Ipi 10 mg/kg q3w
from cycle 3, followed by
Ipi 10 mg/kg q12w
vs
PE + placebo
Extensive stage – Second-line and beyond
I
24
Pembro 10 mg/kg q2w
III

b/ Pembrolizumab
PD-1
(NCT02054806)
c/ Ipilimumab/Nivolumab CTLA-4 / I/II
(NCT01928394)
PD-1

159

Ipi 3 mg/kg + Nivo 1 mg/kg
q3w ×4, followed by Nivo
3 mg/kg q2w
vs
Nivo 3 mg/kg q2w

OS

PFS

ORR

11m vs
10.9m

4.6m vs
4.4m

62% vs
62%

HR 0.94, HR 0.85,
p=0.3775 p=0.0161
9.7m

1.9m

37.5

7.9m vs
4.1m

not
reported

25 vs
11

Abbreviations: CTLA-4, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4; HR, hazard ratio; Ipi, ipilimumab; Nivo, nivolumab; ORR, overall response
rate; OS, overall survival; PD-1, programmed cell death protein 1; PE, platinum/etoposide; Pembro, pembrolizumab;
PFS, progression-free survival; qXw, every X weeks; SCLC, small cell lung cancer.

2.3.2 Small Cell Lung Cancer

115

10

Anti-cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte Antigen 4 (CTLA-4) Blockade
No OS benefit was observed with the addition of ipilimumab to standard
platinum/etoposide for treatment-naïve extensive-stage SCLC in a randomised double-blind phase III trial (NCT01450761, see Table 1, a). In this
study, 1132 patients were assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive cisplatin or carboplatin plus etoposide for 4–6 cycles, plus ipilimumab 10 mg/kg or placebo
every 3 weeks beginning with cycle 3. Following induction, maintenance
ipilimumab or placebo was administered every 12 weeks. OS was evaluated
in the 954 patients who received at least one dose of blinded study therapy.
Median OS was 11 versus 10.9 months (hazard ratio [HR]: 0.94; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.81–1.09; p=0.3775) and median PFS was 4.6 versus
4.4 months (HR: 0.85; 95% CI: 0.75–0.97) for the ChT/ipilimumab and ChT/
placebo arms, respectively. No subgroups demonstrated greater benefit with
the addition of ipilimumab versus ChT alone. Rates of grade 3–4 adverse
events (AEs) and treatment discontinuation were higher (18% versus 2%)
in the ChT/ipilimumab arm. Lack of corresponding T cell activation within
the tumour microenvironment or ChT-induced immunosuppression limiting
T cell activation and proliferation have been hypothesised as contributing
factors to the lack of benefit from additional CTLA-4 blockade.
PD-1 and PD-L1 Blockade
Pembrolizumab
KEYNOTE-028 (NCT02054806, see Table 1, b) was a non-randomised,
multicohort phase Ib study which evaluated the safety and efficacy of
pembrolizumab in 24 patients with extensive-stage SCLC who had progressed after platinum-based ChT. All patients had a PD-L1 expression
≥1% as evaluated by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Pembrolizumab
10 mg/kg was given every 2 weeks for up to 2 years, until progressive disease or intolerable toxicity. Sixteen out of 24 (66.7%) patients
experienced treatment-related AEs (trAEs) with grade 3–5 reported in
two patients (8.3%). ORR was 37.5% (95% CI: 18.8–59.4) with one
complete response and eight partial responses. Durable responses were
observed with a 9-month median duration of response. Median PFS and
median OS were 1.9 months (95% CI: 1.7–5.9 months) and 9.7 months
(95% CI: 4.1 months–not reached), respectively.

116

Tay et al.

Nivolumab
In the SCLC cohort of the phase I/II open-label CheckMate 032
(NCT01928394, see Table 1, c), unselected patients progressing after
at least one previous platinum-containing regimen received either
nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks or nivolumab + ipilimumab (1 mg/
kg + 1 mg/kg, 1 mg/kg + 3 mg/kg or 3 mg/kg + 1 mg/kg, intravenously)
every 3 weeks for 4 cycles, followed by nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 2
weeks. Anti-tumour response and tolerability of nivolumab ± ipilimumab reported at interim analysis led to the addition of a randomised
expansion cohort (3:2) assigned to nivolumab monotherapy (n=147), or
nivolumab + ipilimumab (1 mg/kg + 3 mg/kg) followed by nivolumab 3
mg/kg every 2 weeks (n=95).
Updated analysis from the non-randomised cohort showed a higher ORR
(25% versus 11%) in the combination arm (nivolumab 1 mg/kg + ipilimumab 3 mg/kg, n=61) compared with nivolumab alone (n=98). Combination therapy also improved median OS compared with nivolumab
monotherapy (7.9 versus 4.1 months). Durable responses were observed
in both treatment arms: nivolumab versus combination 1-year OS was
27% versus 40%, and 2-year OS 14% versus 26%. The incidence of any
grade (73% versus 55%) and grade 3–4 toxicity (37% versus 12%) was
higher in the combination arm. These are the first reported data demonstrating durable tumour response and manageable safety profile in SCLC
patients for combination checkpoint inhibition in the second-line setting.
Results from the randomised expansion cohort confirm higher ORR
(21% versus 12%) in the combination arm (n=95) versus monotherapy
(n=147). Mature survival data are awaited.
Within the pooled non-randomised and randomised cohorts (n=401),
exploratory biomarker analysis utilising TMB was undertaken in 211
(53%) evaluable patients and stratified into high, medium and low TMB
subgroups. In patients receiving combination therapy, high TMB was
associated with higher ORR (46%) compared with the medium or low
TMB subgroups (ORR 16% and 22%, respectively). Improved 1-year
survival was observed in the high TMB subgroup (62%) compared with
the medium and low TMB subgroups (20%, 23%).
2.3.2 Small Cell Lung Cancer

117

In patients receiving nivolumab monotherapy, a higher ORR was also
observed in the high TMB subgroup (21%) versus the medium and low
TMB subgroups (7%, 5%), although not to the same magnitude as in
the combination arm. Prospective investigation of TMB is warranted in
future immunotherapy SCLC trials.
A phase I/II study (NCT02247349), evaluating BMS-986012 (fully
human monoclonal antibody targeting fucosyl-GM1) plus nivolumab
after platinum-based first-line therapy, has reported a partial response in
four out of 16 evaluable patients. Updated efficacy and biomarker analysis are awaited.

Future Developments
Several clinical trials investigating ICB in treatment-naïve and pretreated SCLC are currently in progress (Table 2).
Limited Stage
A phase I trial is investigating the combination of pembrolizumab and
concurrent RT either with ChT (cisplatin/carboplatin and etoposide) or
alone (NCT02402920, see Table 2, a). The primary endpoint is to determine the maximum tolerated pembrolizumab dose given in combination
with RT ± ChT. Secondary endpoints are PFS (using immune-related
response criteria [irRC]) and safety. The study plans to enrol 80 patients.
The estimated primary completion date is July 2023.
A phase II trial is assessing the efficacy of pembrolizumab added to concurrent ChT ± RT (NCT02934503, see Table 2, b). The primary endpoint is to evaluate the change in PD-L1 expression status as determined
by IHC in pre-treatment and archival samples. Secondary endpoints are
PFS, OS, ORR and safety. The study plans to enrol 60 patients. The estimated primary completion date is October 2019.
The use of combination nivolumab and ipilimumab as consolidation
therapy after standard chemoradiotherapy (CRT) for limited-stage
SCLC is currently under investigation in the randomised open-label
phase II trial STIMULI (NCT02046733, see Table 2, c). Following
CRT, unselected patients will be randomised to an induction phase of

118

Tay et al.

nivolumab 1 mg/kg + ipilimumab 3 mg/kg every 3 weeks for 4 cycles,
followed by a maintenance phase (nivolumab 240 mg every 2 weeks for
12 months) or observation. Co-primary endpoints are OS and PFS.
Extensive Stage
First-line
Part E of the phase I study KEYNOTE-011 (NCT01840579, see Table
2, d) is enrolling extensive-stage SCLC patients to receive pembrolizumab in combination with either cisplatin or carboplatin plus etoposide to assess the safety and tolerability of the combination therapy. The
primary outcome measure is the number of patients experiencing doselimiting toxicities. The study plans to enrol a total of 75 patients over all
five parts. Recruitment has closed, with an estimated study completion
date in April 2020.
The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)led phase II study REACTION (NCT02580994) will evaluate platinum/
etoposide ± pembrolizumab in the first-line setting for extensive-stage SCLC
patients. The estimated primary completion date is August 2020.
The phase III study KEYNOTE-604 (NCT03066778, see Table 2, f) plans
to enrol 430 patients to receive platinum/etoposide ± pembrolizumab with
PFS and OS as co-primary endpoints. Secondary endpoints are ORR and
safety. The estimated primary completion date is January 2019.
The phase III study IMpower133 (NCT02763579, see Table 2, g) is
investigating carboplatin/etoposide plus atezolizumab or placebo. Coprimary endpoints are PFS and OS. Secondary endpoints include ORR
and safety. The study plans to enrol 500 patients. The estimated primary
completion date is August 2019.
The phase III study CASPIAN (NCT03043872, see Table 2, i) plans to
randomise 795 patients to receive platinum/etoposide versus platinum/
etoposide plus durvalumab versus platinum/etoposide plus durvalumab
and tremelimumab. The primary endpoint is OS and secondary endpoints are PFS, ORR and safety. The estimated primary completion date
is March 2019.
2.3.2 Small Cell Lung Cancer

119

Ipi + Nivo /
CTLA-4
PD-1

Pembro / PD-1

Pembro / PD-1
Pembro / PD-1

Atezo / PD-L1

Tremelimumab
Durva / CTLA-4
PD-L1
Tremelimumab
Durva / CTLA-4
PD-L1

c/ NCT02046733

d/ NCT01840579

e/ NCT02934503
f/ NCT03066778

g/ NCT02763579

h/ NCT02537418

120

Tay et al.

i/ NCT03043872

Pembro / PD-1
Pembro / PD-1

a/ NCT02402920
b/ NCT02934503

Drug / Target

Trial identifier

III

Ib

I/II

II
III

I

II

I
II

In Part E, Pembro + Cisplatin +
Etoposide
PE + Pembro and RT
Pembro + PE
vs
Placebo + PE
Atezo + Carboplatin + Etoposide
vs
Placebo + Carboplatin + Etoposide
Durva + Tremelimumab
vs
Tremelimumab
Durva + Tremelimumab + PE
vs
Durvalumab + PE
vs
PE

260

80
60

N

795

175

500

75 (overall 5 parts of
the study)
60
430

Extensive stage – First-line

Ipi + Nivo followed by maintenance Nivo
vs
Observation

Limited stage
MK-3475 + PE + Thoracic RT
Pembro + PE + Thoracic RT

Phase Regimen

OS, PFS

RP2D

PFS, OS

Number of participants
experiencing DLT
PFS
PFS

MTD
Change in PD-L1
expression status
OS, PFS

Primary endpoint

Recruiting (Mar 2019)

Ongoing but not recruiting
participants (Dec 2018)

Recruiting (Aug 2019)

Ongoing but not recruiting
participants (May 2018)
Recruiting (Oct 2019)
Recruiting (Jan 2019)

Recruiting (Oct 2019)

Recruiting (Jul 2023)
Recruiting (Oct 2019)

Status (estimated primary
completion date)

Table 2 Ongoing Clinical Trials Investigating Immunotherapy in SCLC

Ipi
Nivo / CTLA-4
PD-1
Ipi
Nivo / CTLA-4
PD-1

j/ NCT03043599

Pembro /
PD-1

Tremelimumab
Durva / CTLA-4
PD-L1
Nivo / PD-1

m/ NCT02963090

n/ NCT02701400
III

II

II

I/II

III

I/II

N

Extensive stage – Maintenance
Consolidative Ipi + Nivo and
52
maintenance Nivo with Thoracic RT after
platinum-based ChT
Nivo
810
vs
Ipi + Nivo
vs
Placebo
Extensive stage – Second-line and beyond
Rova-T and Nivo
90
or
Rova-T and Nivo plus Ipi 1 mg/kg
or
Rova-T and Nivo plus Ipi 3 mg/kg
Pembro
98
vs
Topotecan
Tremelimumab + Durva
20
vs
Tremelimumab + Durva + SBRT
Nivo
480
vs
Topotecan
or
Amrubicin

Phase Regimen

OS

PFS, ORR

PFS

Number of participants
experiencing DLT

PFS, OS

RP2D

Primary endpoint

Ongoing but not recruiting
participants (Aug 2018)

Recruiting (Aug 2019)

Ongoing but not recruiting
participants (May 2019)

Recruiting (Feb 2020)

Recruiting (Sep 2018)

Ongoing but not recruiting
participants (Apr 2021)

Status (estimated primary
completion date)

Abbreviations: Atezo, atezolizumab; ChT, chemotherapy; CTLA-4, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4; DLT, dose-limiting toxicity; Durva, durvalumab; Ipi, ipilimumab; MTD, maximum tolerated dose;
Nivo, nivolumab; ORR, objective response rate; OS, overall survival; PD-1, programmed cell death protein-1; PD-L1, programmed death-ligand 1; PE, platinum/etoposide; Pembro, pembrolizumab;
PFS, progression-free survival; Rova-T, rovalpituzumab tesirine; RP2D, recommended phase II dose; RT, radiotherapy; SBRT, stereotactic body radiotherapy; SCLC, small cell lung cancer.

o/ NCT02481830

Ipi
Nivo / CTLA-4
PD-1

l/ NCT03026166

k/ NCT02538666

Drug / Target

Trial identifier

Table 2 Ongoing Clinical Trials Investigating Immunotherapy in SCLC (Continued)

2.3.2 Small Cell Lung Cancer

121

An open label, randomised phase Ib study of durvalumab (MEDI4736)
± tremelimumab with or without standard ChT for solid malignancies will include a cohort of previously untreated patients with SCLC
(NCT02537418, see Table 2, h). Final data collection is expected in
December 2018.
Maintenance treatment
A phase I/II study (NCT03043599, see Table 2, j) is evaluating, in the
safety run-in phase I portion, the recommended dose for the following
phase II study of ipilimumab and nivolumab with combined thoracic RT
(30 Gy in 10 fractions) and nivolumab/ipilimumab following standard
treatment with 4–6 cycles of platinum-based ChT. The phase II portion
of this study aims to estimate the 6-month PFS rate. In both parts, this
trial plans to enrol a total of 52 patients. The estimated primary completion date is April 2021.
The phase III study CheckMate 451 (NCT02538666, see Table 2, k)
is investigating immunotherapy as maintenance treatment after completion of first-line platinum/etoposide. A total of 810 patients will be
randomised to receive nivolumab versus nivolumab/ipilimumab versus
placebo. The co-primary endpoints are PFS and OS with secondary endpoints being ORR and safety. The estimated primary completion date is
September 2019.
Second-line and beyond
The CheckMate 331 phase III trial (NCT02481830, see Table 2, o) randomised 480 pre-treated patients to receive nivolumab versus topotecan
or amrubicin. The primary endpoint is OS of nivolumab versus ChT.
Secondary endpoints are PFS, ORR and safety. The trial has completed
accrual and will report in 2019.
A multicentre, randomised, open-label phase II study of pembrolizumab
versus topotecan (NCT02963090, see Table 2, m) is enrolling 98 patients
with recurrent SCLC in a 2:1 fashion. PD-L1 expression will be determined at baseline although subjects will be enrolled regardless of PD-L1
status. In the topotecan arm, progressing patients will be allowed to

122

Tay et al.

crossover to the pembrolizumab arm. The primary endpoint is PFS. The
study has completed recruitment with an estimated primary completion
date in May 2019.
A randomised phase II trial (NCT02701400, see Table 2, n) is enrolling 20 patients with recurrent SCLC to receive tremelimumab plus durvalumab ± RT. The co-primary endpoints are PFS and ORR. The estimated primary completion date is August 2019.
A phase I/II study (NCT03026166, see Table 2, l) is investigating
the safety of Rova-T administered in combination with nivolumab or
nivolumab plus ipilimumab in 90 patients with recurrent SCLC. The primary endpoint is to evaluate the number of patients experiencing doselimiting toxicities. Secondary endpoints are ORR, PFS and OS. The estimated primary completion date is February 2020.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Tay has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Rossi has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Califano has reported no potential conflicts of interest.

Further Reading
Antonia SJ, López-Martin JA, Bendell J, et al. Nivolumab alone and nivolumab
plus ipilimumab in recurrent small-cell lung cancer (CheckMate 032): a multicentre, open-label, phase 1/2 trial. Lancet Oncol 2016; 17:883–895.
Chu QS-C, van Herpen C, Leighl NB, et al. 1528PD. Initial results of BMS986012, a first-in-class fucosyl-GM1 mAb, in combination with nivolumab,
in pts with relapsed/refractory (rel/ref) small-cell lung cancer (SCLC). Ann
Oncol 2017; 28(Suppl 5):v539–v542.
Facchinetti F, Marabelle A, Rossi G, et al. Immune checkpoint blockade in thoracic
tumors beyond NSCLC. J Thorac Oncol 2016; 11:1819–1836.
Hellmann MD, Ott PA, Zugazagoitia J, et al. Nivolumab (nivo) ± ipilimumab
(ipi) in advanced small-cell lung cancer (SCLC): First report of a randomized
expansion cohort from CheckMate 032. J Clin Oncol 2017; 35(15_suppl):
abstr. 8503.

2.3.2 Small Cell Lung Cancer

123

Ott PA, Elez E, Hiret S, et al. Pembrolizumab in patients with extensive-stage
small-cell lung cancer: results from the phase Ib KEYNOTE-028 study. J Clin
Oncol 2017; 35:3823–3829.
Ott P, Felip E, Hiret S, et al. OA05.01 Pembrolizumab in patients with extensivestage small cell lung cancer: updated survival results from KEYNOTE-028.
J Thorac Oncol 2017; 12:S259.
Reck M, Luft A, Szczesna A, et al. Phase III randomized trial of ipilimumab plus
etoposide and platinum versus placebo plus etoposide and platinum in extensive-stage small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2016; 34:3740–3748.
Rivalland G, Walkiewicz M, Wright GM, et al. Small cell lung cancer: the immune
microenvironment and prognostic impact of checkpoint expression. J Clin
Oncol 2017; 35(15_suppl):abstr. 8569.

124

Tay et al.

2.3 Thoracic Malignancies
2.3.3 Mesothelioma
P. Baas
M. J. Disselhorst
Department of Thoracic Oncology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute,
Amsterdam, Netherlands

Definition
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) has been known for its resistance
to a variety of therapies, and has therefore been the focus of new treatment
approaches such as immuno-oncology treatment. Although mesothelioma
is not a typical immunogenic tumour, in the past it has been observed that
some patients with MPM responded well on instillation of BCG (Bacillus
Calmette-Guérin) or after the development of an empyema (Webster et al,
1982). In the 20th century, some groups observed that immune infiltration
in biopsies predicted for better survival. Mesothelioma is also infiltrated
by immune effector cells, cytokines and regulatory T cells (Hegmans et
al, 2006; Anraku et al, 2008). This led to the idea that the immune system
could play an important role in the biology of MPM.

Predictive and/or Prognostic Biomarkers of
Clinical Relevance
Mesothelioma has a moderate expression of programmed death-ligand
1 (PD-L1); 20%–40% of patients have an expression of >1%. The nonepithelioid histological subtype has a significantly higher number of PDL1-positive (PD-L1+) patients. PD-L1-negative (PD-L1-) patients have
a significantly better prognosis than PD-L1+ patients, with a median
survival of 16.3 months versus 4.8 months, respectively. The effect of
PD-L1 status on prognosis does not depend on the histology (Cedrés et
al, 2015; Mansfield et al, 2014).

125

Mesotheliomas have a low protein-altering mutation rate. Compared
with other cancers, it is in the lowest third of the tumour mutational burden landscape (Chalmers et al, 2017). There is no significant difference
in mutational burden between histological subtypes of mesothelioma
(Bueno et al, 2016). Despite this low mutational burden, in a subgroup of
patients with mesothelioma, immunotherapy is beneficial, possibly due to
the presence of immune cells in the tumour microenvironment.
The prognostic significance of immune cells infiltrating the tumour has
been investigated in several studies. With more CD4-expressing cells or
CD8+ lymphocytes in the mesothelioma, there is a tendency for longer
survival. High levels of interleukin-7 receptor (IL-7R) are associated
with an increased risk of death. CD163+ cells and their ratio to tumour
infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) (CD8+ T cells and CD20+ B cells) are an
independent marker of prognosis in mesothelioma (Ujiie et al, 2015).

Clinical Results
Unlike the turbulent development in melanoma and lung cancer, the number of studies in MPM has developed at a slow pace. The studies reported
in peer-reviewed journals or presented at major meetings are listed in Table
1. Most of these studies focus on the anti-programmed cell death protein 1
(PD-1) monoclonal antibodies nivolumab and pembrolizumab.
Data emerging from these studies indicate that the objective response
rate (ORR) is comparable with the results obtained in lung cancer and
other tumours, but there seems to be no clear correlation between PD-L1
expression level and response. In general, the primary endpoint of the
second-line studies is the disease control rate (DCR) at 12 weeks. Longterm survivors have not yet been reported due to the recent initiation of
these studies.
PD-1 Blockade
One phase Ib study, KEYNOTE-028, examined pembrolizumab in a
variety of tumour types. This is the only study that included patients who
expressed PD-L1 (defined as >1%), including a subset of 25 patients
with MPM. The ORR for mesothelioma was 20% and the DCR was 72%.

126

Baas and Disselhorst

Table 1 Completed Studies of Immuno-oncology Therapy for Mesothelioma Patients
Study
Determine
(Maio et al, 2017)
NivoMes
(Quispel-Janssen et al, 2017)
JAVELIN Solid Tumor
(Hassan et al, 2016)
KEYNOTE-028
(Alley et al, 2017)
Pembrolizumab
(Kindler et al, 2017)
NCT02399371
MAPS 2
(Scherpereel et al, 2017)
INITIATE
NCT03048474
DC vaccine
(Cornelissen et al, 2016)
Antimesothelin immunotoxin
(Hassan et al, 2014)

Drug(s)a
Tremelimumab
vs
placebo
2:1
Nivolumab

Phase # Pts
IIB 571

II

33

Avelumab

IB

53

Pembrolizumab
10 mg/kg q2w

IB

25

II

34

II

125

II

38

DC-based immunotherapy +
Cyclophosphamide

I

10

Cisplatin + Pemetrexed + SS1P

I

24

For PD-L1 >1%
Pembrolizumab

Nivolumab
vs
Nivolumab + Ipilimumab (1:1)
Ipilimumab + Nivolumab

Outcome
DCR: 28% vs 22%
OS: 7.7 vs 7.3 months
DCR: 50%
ORR: 15%
DCR: 57%
ORR: 9.4%
mPFS: 17 weeks
DCR: 72%
ORR: 20%
mPFS: 5.4 months
mOS: 18 months
DCR 76%
ORR 21%
mPFS: 6.2 months
mOS: not reached
DCR: 43% vs 52%
ORR: 17% vs 26%
DCR: 72%
ORR: 28%
DCR: 80%
Reduces regulatory T cells
Safe
Safe
Well tolerated
PR: 77%

a
Standard dosages of therapy, unless otherwise specified
The number between brackets stands for bibliographic references listed at the end of this chapter.
Abbreviations: DC, dendritic cell; DCR, disease control rate; mOS, median overall survival; mPFS, median progression-free
survival; ORR, objective response rate; OS, overall survival; PD-L1, programmed death-ligand 1; PR, partial response; Pts, patients;
qXw, every X weeks.

The clinical benefit (complete response [CR] + partial response [PR] +
stable disease [SD]) at 6 months was 40%. Median overall survival was
18 months. Historical data on median overall survival with second-line
therapy ranges from 5.7 to 10.9 months.
Five patients (20%) presented treatment-related adverse events (trAEs)
of grade ≥3, including thrombocytopaenia, dyspnoea, increase in alanine
aminotransferase, neutropaenia, decrease in appetite and pyrexia (Alley
et al, 2017).
2.3.3 Mesothelioma

127

An interim analysis of a phase II study with single-agent pembrolizumab
confirmed the DCR and limited toxicity profile (Kindler et al, 2017). In
Switzerland, data collected from patients who received pembrolizumab
for relapsed MPM were reviewed retrospectively. Response rates and
survival outcomes were promising in the unselected population, and
comparable with clinical trials for patients with Eastern Cooperative
Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0–1 and second-line treatment (as were the inclusion criteria for KEYNOTE-028).
Comparable results were reported when nivolumab was used (QuispelJanssen et al, 2017).
PD-L1 Blockade
Limited studies have been performed with PD-L1 blockers. The JAVELIN Solid Tumor study, a phase Ib trial, tested the use of avelumab in
53 patients. ORR was 9.4% and DCR 57%. Median progression-free
survival was 17 weeks. The toxicity profile was acceptable; four patients
(7.5%) had trAEs of grade ≥3 (colitis, lymphopaenia, increased gammaglutamyl transferase [GGT] or creatine phosphokinase [CPK]) (Hassan
et al, 2016).
Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte Antigen 4 (CTLA-4) Blockade
One of the largest studies performed in MPM is the use of tremelimumab
in second and third line. A total of 571 patients were randomised to receive
tremelimumab or placebo (2:1). The preliminary safety profile of tremelimumab was acceptable. This was a negative study, since no difference
in the primary endpoint (overall survival) was noted (Maio et al, 2017).
Combination Checkpoint Inhibitors
In the MAPS2 trial, 125 patients were included and received either
nivolumab or nivolumab plus ipilimumab. Interim analysis for the first
108 patients showed a DCR of 43% at 12 weeks with nivolumab and 52%
with nivolumab plus ipilimumab. ORR was 17% with nivolumab alone
and 26% with nivolumab plus ipilimumab (Scherpereel et al, 2017).
An interim analysis of 26 patients in the Dutch INITIATE trial

128

Baas and Disselhorst

(NCT03048474), a phase II trial in which patients receive nivolumab
plus ipilimumab, showed comparable results with a DCR of 69% and ORR
of 27% at 12 weeks. Toxicity was relatively low.

Potential Future Developments
In Table 2, ongoing studies are reported. For checkpoint inhibitors, two trials explore the toxicity and changes in immunological microenvironment
with immunotherapy as neoadjuvant treatment for surgery. One study
investigates the toxicity of pembrolizumab when given after radiotherapy.
A few studies investigate the difference in efficacy for chemotherapy
(ChT) versus immunotherapy, some in first line and some in further lines.
Adoptive Cell Therapy
A few phase I studies are investigating the safety and feasibility of intrapleural
or intravenously administered human chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)modified T cells in patients with mesothelin (MSLN)-expressing cancers. No
results have been published for mesothelioma.
Anticancer Vaccines
Dendritic cells (DCs) have been used in tumour cell vaccinations for
mesothelioma. Cornelissen et al described 10 patients in whom DC vaccination was given after immune modulation of the body with cyclophosphamide. This resulted in radiographic disease control in 8 out of
10 patients. Seven of these 10 patients survived 24 months or more, and
two patients were alive at 50 and 66 months after treatment (Cornelissen
et al, 2016).
This approach is now being investigated in two other trials (see Table 2).
The European DENIM phase III trial will test DC-based immunotherapy with
allogeneic tumour lysate as maintenance treatment after ChT.
Immunotoxin Immunotherapy
MSLN is overexpressed in mesothelioma. SS1P is an immunotoxin consisting of an anti-MSLN antibody fragment fused to pseudomonas exotoxin.
Hassan et al showed that SS1P can be administered safely and had an impres2.3.3 Mesothelioma

129

sive tumour response in mesothelioma. Thirteen out of 24 patients received
the maximum tolerated dose, and 77% demonstrated a partial response with
SS1P in combination with ChT (Hassan et al, 2014).
Another MSLN-targeted immunotoxin currently being investigated is
Table 2 Ongoing Studies of Immuno-oncology Therapy for Mesothelioma Patients
Study

Drug(s)

Phase

# Pts Primary endpoint

Remarks

Neoadjuvant pembrolizumab
NCT02707666
Adjuvant pembrolizumab
NCT02959463
Durvalumab tremelimumab
+ surgery
NCT02592551

Pembrolizumab before
surgery
RT + adjuvant Pembro
(± surgery or ChT)
Durva + surgery
Durva+ tremelimumab
+ surgery
Control arm + surgery
Cisplatin + pemetrexed
Cisplatin + pemetrexed
+ Pembro
Pembro alone
Pembro vs standard
of care
Durva q4w +
tremelimumab q4w

I

15

I

24

Toxicity
γ gene expression
Toxicity

II
Window of
opportunity
study
II

8
8

CD8/Treg ratio and
ICOS

University of
Chicago
MD
Anderson
Single centre
Houston

4
126

PFS

Canada

III

142

PFS

ETOP study

II

40

ORR

Dana-Farber
Institute

II
1st line
III
1st line

55

OS

ECOG study

600

OS and PFS

Multinational

Pembro vs ChT
NCT02784171
PROMISE
NCT02991482
Durvalumab and
tremelimumab
NCT03075527
PrE0505
NCT02899195
CheckMate 743
NCT02899299
NIBIT-MESO-1
NCT02588131
KEYNOTE-158
Pembrolizumab
NCT02628067
MesoDec
NCT02649829
MesoCancerVac
NCT02395679
Oncolytic virus
NCT02714374
NCT01503177

Durva q4w + ChT
Nivo + ipi
vs
platinum+ pemetrexed
Durva + tremelimumab
Pembro
Autologous DC
vaccination
DCs loaded with
allogeneous cell lysate
Neoadjuvant GL-ONC1
vaccinia ± eculizumab
Intrapleural measles virus

II
1st and 2nd line
II

40

ORR

Italian study

1350

ORR

Multinational

I/II

20

I

9

Feasibility and
safety
Tolerability

IB

36

trAE

I

36

AE

Single centre
Antwerp
Single centre
Rotterdam
Single centre
San Diego
Mayo Clinic

Abbreviations: AE, adverse event; ChT, chemotherapy; DC, dendritic cell; Durva, durvalumab; ECOG, Eastern Cooperative
Oncology Group; ETOP, European Thoracic Oncology Platform; ICOS, inducible T cell co-stimulator cells; Ipi, ipilimumab; OS,
overall survival; ORR, objective response rate; Nivo, nivolumab; Pembro, pembrolizumab; PFS, progression-free survival; Pts,
patients; qXw, every X weeks; RT, radiotherapy; trAE, treatment-related adverse event; Treg, regulatory T cell.

130

Baas and Disselhorst

LMB-100.
Oncolytic Viral Therapy
For vaccinia immunotherapy, there is still only preclinical research. Two
phase I studies are investigating the toxicity of oncolytic viral therapy for
mesothelioma (see Table 2, NCT02714374 and NCT01503177).
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Baas has received research grants from or has served as a consultant
for Merck and Bristol-Myers Squibb.
Dr Disselhorst has reported no potential conflicts of interest.

Further Reading
Alley EW, Lopez J, Santoro A, et al. Clinical safety and activity of pembrolizumab
in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma (KEYNOTE-028): preliminary results from a non-randomised, open-label, phase 1b trial. Lancet Oncol
2017; 18:623–630.
Anraku M, Cunningham KS, Yun Z, et al. Impact of tumor-infiltrating T cells on
survival in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma. J Thorac Cardiovasc
Surg 2008; 135:823–829.
Bueno R, Stawiski EW, Goldstein LD, et al. Comprehensive genomic analysis of
malignant pleural mesothelioma identifies recurrent mutations, gene fusions
and splicing alterations. Nat Genet 2016; 48:407–416.
Cedrés S, Ponce-Aix S, Zugazagoitia J, et al. Analysis of expression of programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1) in malignant pleural mesothelioma
(MPM). PloS One 2015; 10:e0121071.
Chalmers ZR, Connelly CF, Fabrizio D, et al. Analysis of 100,000 human cancer genomes reveals the landscape of tumor mutational burden. Genome Med
2017; 9:34.
Cornelissen R, Hegmans JP, Maat AP, et al. Extended tumor control after dendritic cell vaccination with low-dose cyclophosphamide as adjuvant treatment
in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma. Am J Respir Crit Care Med
2016; 193:1023–1031.
Hassan R, Sharon E, Thomas A, et al. Phase 1 study of the antimesothelin immunotoxin SS1P in combination with pemetrexed and cisplatin for front-line
therapy of pleural mesothelioma and correlation of tumor response with serum

2.3.3 Mesothelioma

131

mesothelin, megakaryocyte potentiating factor, and cancer antigen 125. Cancer
2014; 120:3311–3319.
Hassan R, Thomas A, Patel MR, et al. Avelumab (MSB0010718C; anti-PD-L1) in
patients with advanced unresectable mesothelioma from the JAVELIN solid
tumor phase Ib trial: Safety, clinical activity, and PD-L1 expression. J Clin
Oncol 2016; 34(15_suppl):abstr. 8503.
Hegmans JP, Hemmes A, Hammad H, et al. Mesothelioma environment comprises
cytokines and T-regulatory cells that suppress immune responses. Eur Respir
J 2006; 27:1086–1095.
Kindler H, Karrison T, Tan Y-HC, et al. OA13.02. Phase II trial of pembrolizumab
in patients with malignant mesothelioma (MM): interim analysis. J Thorac
Oncol 2017; 12:S293–S294.
Maio M, Scherpereel A, Calabrò L, et al. Tremelimumab as second-line or thirdline treatment in relapsed malignant mesothelioma (DETERMINE): a multicentre, international, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2b
trial. Lancet Oncol 2017; 18:1261–1273.
Mansfield AS, Roden AC, Peikert T, et al. B7-H1 expression in malignant pleural
mesothelioma is associated with sarcomatoid histology and poor prognosis. J
Thorac Oncol 2014; 9:1036–1040.
Quispel-Janssen J, Zago G, Schouten R, et al. OA13.01. A phase II study of
nivolumab in malignant pleural mesothlioma (NivoMes): with translational
research (TR) biopsies. J Thorac Oncol 2017; 12:S292–S293.
Scherpereel A, Mazières J, Greillier L, et al. Second- or third-line nivolumab
(Nivo) versus nivo plus ipilimumab (Ipi) in malignant pleural mesothelioma
(MPM) patients: Results of the IFCT-1501 MAPS2 randomized phase II trial.
J Clin Oncol 2017; 35(18_suppl):abstr. LBA8507.
Ujiie H, Kadota K, Nitadori JI, et al. The tumoral and stromal immune microenvironment in malignant pleural mesothelioma: A comprehensive analysis reveals
prognostic immune markers. Oncoimmunology 2015; 4:e1009285.
Webster I, Cochrane JW, Burkhardt KR. Immunotherapy with BCG vaccine in 30
cases of mesothelioma. S Afr Med J 1982; 61:277–278.

132

Baas and Disselhorst

11

2.3 Thoracic Malignancies
2.3.4 Other Thoracic Malignancies:
Thymic Malignancies and Others
N. Girard1
C. Merveilleux du Vignaux2
Institut du Thorax Curie-Montsouris, Institut Curie, Institut Mutualiste
Montsouris, Paris, France
2
Université de Lyon, Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lyon, France
1

Thymic Malignancies
Definition
Thymic malignancies represent a heterogeneous group of rare thoracic
cancers, which may be aggressive and difficult to treat. Thymic epithelial tumours are classified according to the World Health Organization
(WHO) system, which distinguishes thymomas from thymic carcinomas. Thymomas combine epithelial tumour cells with lymphocytes and
are further subdivided into different types (so-called A, AB, B1, B2 and
B3), based on the relative proportion of non-tumoural lymphocytic component and resemblance to normal thymic architecture. Thymic carcinomas are similar to their extra-thymic counterpart, the most frequent
subtype being squamous cell carcinoma – which may be differentiated
from primary lung squamous cell carcinoma as thymic squamous cell
carcinoma shows expression of CD5 and CD117. While thymomas are
usually slow-growing tumours with a tendency toward local and regional
invasion, thymic carcinomas are more aggressive tumours with frequent
metastatic spread to lymph nodes and distant sites.

133

Key Points to Consider for Immunotherapy
Autoimmunity in the thymus and in thymomas
The physiological role of the thymus is to induce central tolerance to
self-antigens, through the control of the differentiation and the subsequent positive and negative selection of immature T cells. This process is
deregulated along with thymic carcinogenesis:
n
Immature thymoma-derived lymphocytes may escape the disorganised tumour environment without passing through the thymic medulla
where self-tolerance is induced.
n
Medullary thymic epithelial cells present with defects with regard to
their unique capability to express tissue-related antigens, related to
a loss of expression of the transcription factor AIRE (autoimmune
regulator), similar to that described in APECED (autoimmune polyendocrinopathy candidiasis ectodermal dystrophy). This leads to selfreactive thymocytes not driven to programmed cell death, and thereby
not deleted from the immune repertoire.
n
Thymic carcinogenesis may be associated with genetic changes that
impair the development of T cells and generate an increased number
of self-reactive lymphocytes. The finding that patients can develop
an autoimmune disease after thymectomy has been challenging these
concepts and is currently not fully understood.
In the non-neoplastic thymus, programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)/
programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) interaction negatively regulates
beta selection. However, it also modulates positive selection, as PD-1
deficiency may lead to a significant alteration of the mature T cell repertoire. PD-1 is also involved in CD8+ T cell tolerance through peripheral
intrinsic mechanisms, such as deletion or functional inactivation. PD-1
also facilitates the peripheral differentiation of CD4+ T cells into regulatory T cells (Tregs).
Autoimmune disorders are a clinical hallmark of thymomas
One-third of patients diagnosed with thymoma present at the time of
diagnosis with autoimmune disorders, the most frequent being myasthenia gravis. Other frequent disorders include pure red cell aplasia (5% of

134

Girard and Merveilleux du Vignaux

cases) and hypogammaglobulinaemia (5% of cases). Those disorders are
therefore not paraneoplastic syndromes which would recover after resection of the tumour. As they are more related to self-reacting lymphocytes
than escaped from negative selection in the thymus, those autoimmune
diseases usually have a course that is independent from the evolution of
the tumour.
Systematic immunological check-up is recommended when a diagnosis
of thymic epithelial tumour is suspected; autoimmune disorders, even
if latent at the time of diagnosis, may significantly impact any therapeutic intervention, including surgery, radiotherapy (RT), chemotherapy
(ChT) and especially immunotherapy, with a risk of acute exacerbation.
Autoimmune disorders are not observed in thymic carcinomas, which
may still be associated with true paraneoplastic syndromes related to the
direct secretion of cytokines or hormones by tumour cells.
PD-L1 Expression in the Thymus and in Thymic Epithelial Tumours
PD-L1 expression, while observed in >90% of epithelial cells of the
normal thymus with a medullar tropism respecting Hassall’s corpuscles,
was also identified in thymomas and thymic carcinomas using various
immunohistochemistry (IHC) protocols (Table 1) (Arbour et al, 2017;
Cho et al, 2017; Giaccone et al, 2017; Padda et al, 2015; Weissferdt et al,
2017; Yokoyama et al, 2016a; Yokoyama et al, 2016b). The significance
of this finding as a rationale for the assessment of immune checkpoint
inhibitors (ICIs) targeting PD-1 or PD-L1 remains debatable, given:
n
The high frequency of PD-1 and PD-L1 expression in the non-neoplastic thymus
n
The fact that in thymomas, the presence of immature and mature T
cells surrounding tumour cells is part of the prototypic architecture,
and not a marker of actual antitumour response
n
The potential immune modulation induced by ChT or targeted agents
(such as reported with sunitinib), which are part of the standard treatment strategy in advanced disease and may lead to modulation of
PD-L1 expression in immune cell populations including Tregs

2.3.4 Other Thoracic Malignancies:Thymic Malignancies and Others

135

Table 1 Selected Studies Assessing PD-L1 Expression in Thymoma and
Thymic Carcinoma
Techniques

Thymoma

Thymic carcinoma

Antibody

n

n

National Cancer Center
Tokyo
Stanford University

TMA, clone E1L3
(H-score, 1% cut-off)
TMA, clone 5H1
(intensity high)
Memorial Sloan Kettering
Slides, clone E1L3
Cancer Center
(25% of tumour cells cut-off)
Kurume University
EPR1161
(H-score, 20% cut-off)
MD Anderson Cancer Center Slides, clone E1L3
(5% of tumour cells cut-off)
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center Clone SP142
(1% of tumour cells cut-off)

PD-L1 positive
(n, %)
101 22 (23%)

38

PD-L1 positive
(n, %)
26 (70%)

65

44 (68%)

4

3 (75%)

12

11 (94%)

12

4 (34%)

82

44 (54%)

25

20 (80%)

74

47 (64%)

26

14 (54%)

38

35 (92%)

8

4 (50%)

Abbreviations: PD-L1, programmed death-ligand 1; TMA, tissue micro-array.

Clinical Results with PD-1 and PD-L1 ICIs
About 20%–30% of thymomas and 70%–80% of thymic carcinomas
may present with unresectable, recurrent and/or metastatic disease. In
this setting, current options include cytotoxic combination regimens,
combining platin with anthracyclines, etoposide or taxanes, and targeted
agents such as sunitinib; response and survival rates are usually limited,
ranging from 20%–30%, and 6–7 months, respectively.
To fulfil the unmet need for prolonged survival in this setting, several
phase II trials were initiated using ICIs targeting PD-1 or PD-L1, after
several case reports were published. Concerns include both safety, with
the potential risk of worsening latent autoimmune disorders, and efficacy, in the setting of a low tumour mutation burden potentially limiting
immunogenicity.
One phase II trial was conducted with pembrolizumab, a fully humanised immunoglobulin (Ig)G4 antibody that targets the PD-1 receptor, in
patients with advanced refractory thymic carcinomas (NCT02364076).
In this study, any history of autoimmune disease or other malignancy
requiring treatment were exclusion criteria. Pembrolizumab was given at

136

Girard and Merveilleux du Vignaux

200 mg every 3 weeks. Out of 41 patients, six (15%) patients developed
serious autoimmune disorders: two cases of polymyositis and myocarditis, with complete recovery with steroids but requiring a pacemaker for
complete auriculo-ventricular block; one case of pancreatitis, hepatitis
and diabetes mellitus type 1; one case of bullous pemphigoid, recovering with steroids; one case of polymyositis and hepatitis; and one case
of transaminitis; three patients had to discontinue treatment after one of
these adverse events (AEs). Response rate was 23% including one complete response (CR), eight partial responses (PRs) and 21 (53%) patients
with stable disease (SD); median duration of response was 23 months.
Median progression-free and overall survival (PFS and OS) were 4.2
and 24.9 months, respectively. PD-L1 expression (using IHC with Dako
22C3 antibody) was observed in ≥50% of tumour cells for 10 patients,
six of whom had response to pembrolizumab; only three patients out of
the 27 with PD-L1 expression by tumour cells <50% had any response.
Correlation between response to pembrolizumab and T cell inflammation signature was also reported in 32 patients.
A similar trial was conducted in Korea (NCT02607631). This phase II
trial enrolled 26 patients with thymic carcinoma and seven patients with
thymoma, and results were presented at the ASCO 2017 Annual Meeting. Response and SD rates were 24% and 55% respectively, with PFS
6.1 and 9 months, respectively. Treatment-related AEs (trAEs) ≥ grade
3 associated with immune-related AEs (irAEs) included hepatitis (four
cases), myocarditis (three cases), myasthenia gravis (two cases), thyroiditis (one case), anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated
rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (one case), colitis (one case) and
subacute myoclonus (one case). Despite management with high-dose
corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive agents, eight patients discontinued study treatment.
Finally, a phase I trial is ongoing with avelumab, a fully human, IgG1 antiPD-L1 antibody under clinical development (NCT03076554). In this trial,
eight patients (seven with thymoma [2 type B3, 1 type B2/B3, 3 type B2,
and 1 type B1] and one with thymic carcinoma) were treated; two patients
with thymoma had confirmed PR, two had unconfirmed responses, three

2.3.4 Other Thoracic Malignancies:Thymic Malignancies and Others

137

(including the patient with thymic carcinoma) had SD, and one had progressive disease. Interestingly, three patients experienced tumour response
after a single dose of avelumab. In five patients, trAEs were also irAEs,
including myositis, precluding continuation of avelumab. Following treatment with oral steroids, these events resolved completely in three cases
and incompletely in one case. Correlative studies suggested that avelumab
induces infiltration of the tumour by macrophages, natural killer (NK)
cells and activated T lymphocytes, suggesting real induction of antitumour
responses, not only lymphocytic depletion with the treatment.
Overall, the conclusions of those studies are the following:
n
Immunotherapy with ICIs targeting PD-1 or PD-L1 shows promising
efficacy in thymic malignancies, with response rates and duration of
response in line with reported studies in other solid tumours
n
Toxicity is a major concern, despite systematic baseline workup for
autoimmunity, with frequent occurrence of severe autoimmune AEs,
mostly consisting of myocarditis, myositis and hepatitis, possibly
favoured by previous treatments with anthracyclines and RT
n
Immunotherapy is therefore not a standard-of-care in thymic carcinoma and should not be delivered in an off-label setting, especially if
the patient is eligible for ongoing clinical trials
Potential Future Developments
In Europe, the European Organization for Research and Treatment
of Cancer (EORTC) and the European Thoracic Oncology Platform
(ETOP) are now starting a single-arm, multicentre, phase II study – the
NIVOTHYM trial – to assess the efficacy of nivolumab alone or combined with ipilimumab in patients with advanced, refractory type B3 thymomas and thymic carcinomas. A strict autoimmune workup is planned
(NCT03134118). A phase I/II trial with pembrolizumab in thymic carcinoma and thymoma is also being initiated (NCT03295227).

Other Rare Thoracic Malignancies
Rare thoracic tumours are defined as lung, pleural, mediastinal or cardiac
tumours with unusual histology. Overall, these tumours account for <1%

138

Girard and Merveilleux du Vignaux

Table 2 Reported Results of Clinical Trials with Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 in
Thymic Malignancies
Thymoma
n

Response
n (%)

Thymic carcinoma
Stable Outcome
disease
n (%)

Giaccone
et al
(2017)

n

Grade ≥3 adverse
events

Response Stable
Outcome Rate
disease
n (%)
n (%)
n (%)
41 9 (23%) 21 (53%) mPFS: 4.2 6 (15%)
months
mOS: 24.9
months

Cho et al
(2017)

7

2 (29%)

5 (72%) mPFS: 6.1
months

26 6 (23%)

13 (50%) mPFS: 6.1
months

Rajan et al
(2017)

7

4 (57%)

2 (28%) NR

1

1 (100%) NR

0 (0%)

Events

Myositis,
myocarditis,
pancreatitis,
hepatitis,
pemphigoid
9 (27%) Myositis,
myocarditis,
myasthenia,
hepatitis
5 (71%) Myositis

Abbreviations: mOS, median overall survival; mPFS, median progression-free survival; NR, not reached; PD-1, programmed cell
death protein 1; PD-L1, programmed death-ligand 1.

of all primary thoracic tumours, while they correspond to more than 100
different histological, clinical, radiological and prognostic entities. Some
rare histological subtypes are specific to the lung or the pleura, whereas
others, rarely occurring within the thorax, correspond to tumours more
frequent in other organs. The most frequent rare pulmonary tumours are,
in decreasing order of frequency: neuroendocrine tumours (carcinoids
and large cell carcinomas), inflammatory myofibroblastic tumours,
mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma and sarcomatoid carcinomas. Limited data about immune checkpoint expression and
immunotherapy have been reported so far in rare pulmonary tumours,
with the exception of large cell neuroendocrine carcinomas.
Definition
Neuroendocrine tumours of the lung are a distinct family of tumours,
sharing morphological, immunohistochemical, molecular, clinical
and outcome characteristics. The major categories of neuroendocrine
tumours of the lung include small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and large cell
neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC), both of which are high-grade neuroendocrine tumours, while typical carcinoid and atypical carcinoid are
2.3.4 Other Thoracic Malignancies:Thymic Malignancies and Others

139

considered as low- and intermediate-grade malignant tumours, respectively. The diagnosis of LCNEC requires IHC for neuroendocrine markers, including NCAM/CD56, chromogranin A and synaptophysin.
PD-L1 Expression in LCNEC
PD-L1 expression was observed in 10% of LCNEC cases in a series of
106 surgical cases from Japan, using the E1L3N antibody and a 1% cutoff using the H-score method.
Clinical Results with PD-1 and PD-L1 ICIs
A retrospective cohort of 18 patients treated with nivolumab (nine cases)
or pembrolizumab (one patient) was reported at the 2016 World Conference on Lung Cancer; response was observed in one patient, SD in eight
patients, and progression in eight patients. Median PFS was 57 weeks.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Girard has reported consultancy from AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers
Squibb, Hoffman-La Roche, Merck Sharp & Dohme and Pfizer.
Dr Merveilleux du Vignaux has reported no potential conflicts of interest.

Further Reading
Arbour KC, Naidoo J, Steele KE, et al. Expression of PD-L1 and other immunotherapeutic targets in thymic epithelial tumors. PloS One 2017; 12:e0182665.
Cho J, Ahn MJ, Yoo KH, et al. A phase II study of pembrolizumab for patients
with previously treated advanced thymic epithelial tumor. J Clin Oncol 2017;
35(15_suppl):abstr. 8521.
Gadj Levra M, Mazières J, Audigier Valette C, et al. P1.07-012 Efficacy of immune
checkpoint inhibitors in large-cell neuroendocrine lung cancer: results from a
French retrospective cohort. J Thorac Oncol 2017;12 S702–S703.
Giaccone G, Thompson J, McGuire C, et al. Pembrolizumab in patients with
recurrent thymic carcinoma: results of a phase II study. J Clin Oncol 2017;
35(15_suppl):abstr. 8573.
Girard N, Ruffini E, Marx A, et al. Thymic epithelial tumours: ESMO Clinical
Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol 2015;
26(Suppl 5):v40–v55.

140

Girard and Merveilleux du Vignaux

Katsuya Y, Fujita Y, Horinouchi H, et al. Immunohistochemical status of PD-L1
in thymoma and thymic carcinoma. Lung Cancer 2015; 88:154–159.
Marchevsky AM, Walts AE. PD-L1, PD-1, CD4, and CD8 expression in neoplastic and nonneoplastic thymus. Hum Pathol 2017; 60:16–23.
Nishimura H, Honjo T, Minato N. Facilitation of beta selection and modification
of positive selection in the thymus of PD-1-deficient mice. J Exp Med 2000;
191:891–898.
Padda SK, Riess JW, Schwartz EJ, et al. Diffuse high intensity PD-L1 staining in
thymic epithelial tumours. J Thorac Oncol 2015; 10:500–508.
Rajan A, Heery C, Mammen A, et al. OA18.03: Safety and clinical activity of
avelumab (MSB0010718C; anti-PD-L1) in patients with advanced thymic
epithelial tumours (TETs). J Thorac Oncol 2017;12:S134–S135.
Tsuruoka K, Horinouchi H, Goto Y, et al. PD-L1 expression in neuroendocrine
tumors of the lung. Lung Cancer 2017; 108:115–120.
Weissferdt A, Fujimoto J, Kalhor N, et al. Expression of PD-1 and PD-L1 in
thymic epithelial neoplasms. Mod Pathol 2017; 30:826–833.
Yokoyama S, Miyoshi H, Nakashima K, et al. Prognostic value of programmed
death ligand 1 and programmed death 1 expression in thymic carcinoma.
Clin Cancer Res 2016a; 22:4727–4734.
Yokoyama S, Miyoshi H, Nishi T, et al. Clinicopathologic and prognostic implications of programmed death ligand 1 expression in thymoma. Ann Thorac
Surg 2016b; 101:1361–1369.

2.3.4 Other Thoracic Malignancies:Thymic Malignancies and Others

141

2.4 Genitourinary Malignancies
2.4.1 Renal Cancer
L. Albiges1
M. Strijbos2
A. Rodriguez-Vida3
B. Escudier1
 ustave Roussy, Université Paris-Saclay, Department of Cancer Medecine,
G
Villejuif, France
2
Medical Oncology Department, Algemeen Ziekenhuis Klina, Antwerp, Belgium
3
Medical Oncology Department, Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Spain
1

Introduction
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) has long been known as an
appropriate tumour model for the development of immune agents. The
rationale beyond this assumption relied on:
n
The high lymphocytic infiltration observed in this disease
n
Clinical observations of spontaneous systemic disease regression
after resection of the primary tumour, and
n
The long-term remissions observed in some patients with cytokines
such as high-dose interleukin-2 (IL-2)
Therefore, investigators have rapidly integrated new immune-modulatory
treatment regimens for advanced RCC patients into their clinical trials. Over
the past 3 years, checkpoint inhibitors have transformed the standard-of-care
(SoC) not only in second line but now also in first line, creating a real paradigm shift after a decade of anti-angiogenic supremacy in this disease.
The objective of this chapter is to present the clinical results of immune-modulating agents in RCC and to frame the future developments in this disease.

142

Clinical Results
Until 2015, the treatment of metastatic RCC was built on two classes
of drugs: the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)/VEGF receptor (VEGFR) axis inhibitors, and the mammalian target of rapamycin
(mTOR) inhibitors.
Nivolumab Single Agent in Second and/or Third Line
Nivolumab, an immunoglobulin (Ig)G1 monoclonal antibody directed
against programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1), was initially tested in
33 patients with refractory ccRCCs in a phase I trial (Topalian et al,
2012) demonstrating strong antitumour activity at every dose level, ranging from 0.1 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg, with an objective response reported in
nine out of 33 patients (27%). Responses were durable, ongoing after
one year of treatment for five patients. Eighteen patients had disease
control, including stable disease (SD) and partial response (PR), with
a 54% progression-free survival (PFS) rate at 24 weeks. Subsequently,
a large phase II study with 168 patients randomised to three dose levels of nivolumab (0.3 mg/kg, 2 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg) reported a response
rate (RR) in the range of 20%–22% in previously treated patients, and a
median overall survival (OS) of 18.2 months (80% confidence interval
[CI]: 15.3–26.0), with 11% of grade 3 or 4 adverse events (AEs) (Motzer
et al, 2015a).
These findings prompted the CheckMate 025 phase III trial of nivolumab
versus everolimus in advanced ccRCC following one or two lines of
prior anti-angiogenic therapy (Motzer et al, 2015b). OS was improved by
nivolumab, with a median OS of 25 months (95% CI: 21.8–not evaluated
[NE]), versus 19.6 months (95% CI: 17.6–23.1) with everolimus (hazard ratio [HR] 0.73; 98.5% CI: 0.57–0.93, p=0.0018). Among patients
treated with nivolumab (n=410), the objective response rate (ORR) was
25% versus 5% with everolimus (odds ratio: 5.98; 95% CI: 3.68–9.72).
No difference in PFS was observed: median PFS with nivolumab was
4.6 (3.7–5.4) months versus 4.4 (3.7–5.5) months with everolimus,
HR 0.88 (95% CI: 0.75–1.03). Consistent benefit of nivolumab over
everolimus was seen across all pre-specified subgroups (Escudier et al,
2017a), including across the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center
2.4.1 Renal Cancer

143

(MSKCC) risk classification groups, irrespective of the number of prior
anti-VEGFR therapies (one versus two). Interestingly, treatment benefit beyond progression was reported with a 14% RR after progression
(Escudier et al, 2017b). It is noteworthy that the use of programmed
death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) staining did not allow patient selection, with
similar magnitude of benefit between PD-L1-negative (PD-L1-) patients
(HR 0.79) and PD-L1-positive (PD-L1+) patients (HR 0.77). However,
as in previous reports, the PD-L1+ patients carried a dismal prognosis
compared with PD-L1- patients. Safety analyses reported that 76 out
of 410 patients (19%) treated with nivolumab experienced grade 3 or
4 treatment-related AEs (trAEs). The most frequent AEs were fatigue
(33%), pruritus (14%) and nausea (14%). Immune-related AEs (irAEs)
encompassed pneumonia, rash or endocrinopathies. Most of them were
reversible following treatment with corticosteroids.
Based on these results, nivolumab was granted approval by the Food
and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Medicines Agency
(EMA) for the treatment of ccRCC following prior anti-angiogenic
therapy. Therefore, nivolumab has been integrated into the guidelines
for second and later lines of treatment, and is widely used depending
on national reimbursement policies (Escudier et al, 2016; Powles et al,
2016; Choueiri and Motzer, 2017).
Nivolumab + Ipilimumab Combination in First Line
Combination of two checkpoint inhibitors, namely nivolumab and ipilimumab (a cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 [CTLA-4]) inhibitor, have
demonstrated encouraging results in the phase I setting of CheckMate
016 (Hammers et al, 2017). Two different regimens of this combination
have been evaluated, with similar efficacy but better tolerability for the
nivolumab 3 mg + ipilimumab 1 mg regimen. Furthermore, CheckMate
214 was a global randomised phase III trial, testing the combination of
two immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), ipilimumab and nivolumab (3
mg/kg nivolumab intravenously [i.v.] + 1 mg/kg ipilimumab i.v. every
3 weeks for 4 doses, then 3 mg/kg nivolumab i.v. every 2 weeks), compared with sunitinib (50 mg sunitinib orally once daily for 4 weeks out
of each 6-week cycle) (Motzer et al, 2018a). The patient population con-

144

Albiges et al.

sisted of treatment-naïve advanced or metastatic ccRCC patients. The
trial had three co-primary endpoints of RR, PFS and OS in intermediateand poor-risk groups as defined by the International Metastatic Renal
Cell Carcinoma Database Consortium (IMDC). Outcomes in the overall
population (intention to treat [ITT]) were a secondary endpoint.
Overall, 1096 patients were randomised in the ITT population, including 847 with intermediate- or poor-risk disease. Respectively 23%, 61%
and 17% of patients were in good-, intermediate- and poor-risk groups;
24% of the ITT population and 28% of the intermediate-/poor-risk population were PD-L1+ (>1% of tumour cell staining with 288 antibody).
With a median follow-up of 25.2 months, the study was positive on
two of the co-primary endpoints. The ORR was 42% for the patients
treated with the combination versus 27% for patients treated with sunitinib (p<0.0001). Median OS was not reached for the immuno-oncology
(IO) combination (95% CI: 28.2–not reached [NR]) versus 26 months
for sunitinib (95% CI: 22–NR) (HR 0.63; 99.8% CI: 0.44–0.89). The
third endpoint, PFS, did not reach statistical significance: median PFS
for nivolumab + ipilimumab was 11.6 (8.5–15.5) months versus 8.4
(7–10.8) months for sunitinib (HR 0.82; 99.1% CI: 0.64–1.05). Furthermore, a higher rate of complete responses (CRs), 9%, as well as durable
response, were reported in the nivolumab + ipilimumab arm. Taken altogether, these results will establish nivolumab + ipilimumab as a new SoC
in first line for intermediate- and poor-risk patients. Secondary endpoints
included investigating outcomes in the ITT population. Results showed
nivolumab + ipilimumab was associated with a significant advantage for
both ORR (39% versus 32%) and OS (HR 0.68; 99.8% CI: 0.49–0.95).
Notably, in the nivolumab + ipilimumab arm, 79% of patients received
all four doses of ipilimumab. Treatment discontinuation due to AEs was
15% and 7% for nivolumab + ipilimumab and sunitinib, respectively.
Grade 3–5 AEs were more common with sunitinib than with the IO combination (63% versus 46%, respectively). The most common grade 3–4
AEs with nivolumab + ipilimumab were fatigue (37%), pruritus (28%)
and diarrhoea (27%), compared with diarrhoea (52%), fatigue (49%) and
palmar-plantar erythema (43%) for sunitinib.

2.4.1 Renal Cancer

145

Exploratory endpoints investigated outcomes in favourable-risk patients
and according to tumour PD-L1 expression level. Results in the favourable-risk population showed RRs of 29% (95% CI: 21–38) versus 52%
(95% CI: 43–61), and median PFS of 15.3 months (95% CI: 9.7–20.3) versus 25 months (95% CI: 20.9–NE) for nivolumab + ipilimumab and sunitinib, respectively (HR 2.18; 95% CI: 1.29–3.68). These results support
the use of sunitinib over the combination in the favourable-risk population.
Exploratory analysis of the biomarker identified that PD-L1+ tumours were
associated with better outcomes for both RR and PFS with the doublet
IO than with sunitinib (HR 0.48; 95% CI: 0.28–0.82). In contrast, in the
PD-L1- tumours, PFS was similar (HR 1.0; 95% CI: 0.74–1.36), suggesting that in this study this biomarker appears potentially predictive for PFS.
Atezolizumab + Bevacizumab Combination
Improving long-term survival of patients might rely on ICI combinations
associated with anti-angiogenic therapies; this hypothesis is under investigation in a large number of combination trials.
The first results have included phase I combination as well as randomised
phase II for the doublet atezolizumab + bevacizumab. The phase I study
initially highlighted the biological rationale behind the combination, thanks
to sequential tumour biopsies providing preliminary evidence of enhanced
anti-tumour immune responses following treatment with bevacizumab and
atezolizumab + bevacizumab (Wallin et al, 2016). The randomised phase
II IMmotion 150 study compared atezolizumab single agent (1200 mg i.v.
every 3 weeks) versus atezolizumab + bevacizumab (15 mg/kg every 3
weeks) versus sunitinib (50 mg daily 4-weeks on/2-weeks off) as first-line
treatment for metastatic ccRCC. It is noteworthy that, at progression, a crossover was allowed from the two single-agent arms to the combination arm.
Overall, 305 patients have been enrolled and stratified based on PD-L1
expression (on tumour cells and immune cells) as well as on MSKCC
prognostic groups. The primary endpoint was OS in the ITT population and in the PD-L1+ population. With a median follow-up of 20.7
months, there was no difference in primary endpoint (HR 1.00; 95% CI:
0.69–1.45) in the atezolizumab + bevacizumab arm versus the sunitinib
arm, nor in the atezolizumab single-agent arm (HR 1.19; 95% CI: 0.82–

146

Albiges et al.

1.71) compared with the sunitinib arm. However, a signal was reported
in the biomarker-selected population (PD-L1+), as median PFS in this
population was 14.7 (8.2–25.1) months versus 7.8 (3.8–10.8) months
for sunitinib (stratified HR 0.64; 95% CI: 0.38–1.08). Median PFS for
atezolizumab as single agent was 5.5 months (stratified HR 1.03; 95%
CI: 0.63–1.67) compared with the sunitinib arm. Additionally, the RR
was higher (36% in the combination arm versus 28% for sunitinib in
the PD-L1+ population). On the safety analysis, the most common AEs
were similar to the ones known for each agent, and grade 3 or 4 AEs
were reported in 40%, 16% and 57% of patients for the atezolizumab
+ bevacizumab, bevacizumab and sunitinib arms, respectively. Interestingly, efficacy of the combined arm was further reported in the monotherapy arms (atezolizumab or sunitinib) after crossover upon progression (Atkins et al, 2017). Overall, 26% of patients achieved objective
response after crossover, with a median PFS of 8.8 (5.6–13.7) months.
More recently, the randomised phase III IMmotion 151 trial compared
atezolizumab + bevacizumab (15 mg/kg every 3 weeks) versus sunitinib
(50 mg daily 4-weeks on/2-weeks off) as first-line treatment for metastatic ccRCC (Motzer et al, 2018b). Overall, 915 patients have been
enrolled, including 362 patients with PD-L1+ tumours. The primary endpoint was PFS in the PD-L1+ population. With a median follow-up of
15 months, there was a benefit on PFS (HR 0.74; 95% CI: 0.57–0.96) in
the atezolizumab + bevacizumab arm with a median PFS of 11.2 (8.9–
15) months, compared with the sunitinib arm with a median PFS of 7.7
(6.8–9.7) months. The same benefit was reported in the ITT population:
median PFS was 11.2 (9.6–13.3) months for the atezolizumab + bevacizumab arm versus 8.4 (7.5–9.7) months for the sunitinib arm (HR 0.83;
95% CI: 0.7–0.97). Furthermore, the RR was higher (43% in the combination arm versus 35% for sunitinib in the PD-L1+ population). At time
of reporting, data for OS analysis were not mature, given that only 30%
of patients had an OS event at data cut-off, with a median OS NR for
the atezolizumab + bevacizumab arm versus 23.3 (21.3–NR) months for
sunitinib (HR 0.68; 95% CI: 0.46–1.00). On the safety analysis, grade 3
or 4 AEs were reported in 40% and 54% of patients for the atezolizumab
+ bevacizumab and sunitinib arms; AEs leading to treatment discontinuation were reported in 5% and 8% of patients, respectively.
2.4.1 Renal Cancer

147

Other Combinations
Many other combinations have been investigated in phase I/II. Table 1
presents the studies with available results focusing on RCC populations.
This representation is not meant to encourage cross-trial activity comparison, but to highlight the ORRs seen in treatment-naïve populations
ranging from 45% to 73%. These results have prompted several phase III
trials, summarised below.
Table 1 Combination Phase I/II Studies of VEGFR TKI with PD-1/PD-L1 Inhibitors in
Patients with Metastatic RCC: Activity
Combination Nivolumab + Nivolumab + Pembrolizumab + Avelumab +
Sunitinib
Pazopanib
Axitinib
Axitinib

Pembrolizumab + Nivolumab +
Lenvatinib
Tivozanib

Reference

Amin et al
(2014)

Amin et al
(2014)

Atkins et al
(2018)

Choueiri et al Lee et al
(2017)
(2018)

Escudier et al
(2018)

N

33

20

52

55

30

18

ORR

52

45

73

58

63

64

CR

NE

NE

7.7

5.5

0

0

PR

NE

NE

65.4

53

63

64

Abbreviations: CR, complete response; NE, not evaluated; ORR, objective response rate; PD-1, programmed cell death protein 1;
PD-L1, programmed death-ligand 1; PR, partial response; RCC, renal cell carcinoma; TKI, tyrosine kinase inhibitor; VEGFR, vascular
endothelial growth factor receptor.

Potential Future Developments
Ongoing Phase III Combination Trials
Table 2 presents the ongoing phase III trials of VEGF/VEGFR-targeted
therapy with IO agents in the first-line setting. All these trials have been
designed to compare the combination therapy against SoC single-agent
VEGF therapy with sunitinib. However, given the recent results of the
CheckMate 214 pivotal study (nivolumab + ipilimumab versus sunitinib), a new standard is being set and head-to-head comparison of the
different doublet approaches would have been of interest both for the
community and the regulatory agencies.

148

Albiges et al.

Table 2 Ongoing Randomised Phase III Combination Checkpoint Inhibitors in the
First-line Setting for Metastatic RCC
Study

IMmotion151 MK-3475-426/ JAVELIN Renal 101 Study 307
KEYNOTE-426

Investigational
arm(s)

Atezolizumab + Pembrolizumab + Avelumab +
Bevacizumab Axitinib
Axitinib

CheckMate 9ER

Lenvatinib + Everolimus
Cabozantinib +
or
Nivolumab
Lenvatinib + Pembrolizumab
Sunitinib
Sunitinib
NCT02811861
NCT03141177

Control arm Sunitinib
Sunitinib
NCT reference NCT02420821 NCT02853331

Sunitinib
NCT02684006

N

830

840

830

735

630

Primary
objective

• PFS in
PD-L1+
population
• OS

• PFS
• OS

• PFS in PD-L1+
population
• OS in PD-L1+
population

PFS

PFS in
intermediate-/
poor-risk
randomised
participants

Abbreviations: NCT, clinicaltrials.gov identifier; OS, overall survival; PD-L1+, programmed death-ligand 1-positive;
PFS, progression-free survival; RCC, renal cell carcinoma.

Open Questions with IO Use
Sequence trials
None of the previously discussed trials addresses the question of combination versus sequence trials. Therefore, it is unknown if a sequential
strategy of priming the immune system with a VEGF/VEGFR-targeting
agent first is superior to an upfront combination approach. Ongoing trials of sequencing single agents may help to define the optimal strategy,
such as the SUAVE Trial (NCT03035630), a randomised phase II study
planned to randomise patients in a 1:1 ratio to one of two first-line medication treatment arms (sunitinib or avelumab); once disease progression has been documented, subjects will receive second-line medication
(either avelumab or axitinib).
Adjuvant use
The role of PD-1/PD-L1 axis inhibition in the perioperative setting for
localised RCC is unknown. Several small phase I/II studies are investigating the neoadjuvant approach, while large phase III trials have
been launched in the post-nephrectomy population. Interestingly, disease-free survival (DFS) as primary endpoint, commonly accepted by
the FDA and EMA, may be discussed with this class of agents. Once
2.4.1 Renal Cancer

149

again, the question of the comparator arm is being discussed, given the
heterogeneous results of the role of sunitinib in the subset of high-risk
patients. To date, five phases III studies have been initiated: nivolumab
pre- and post-nephrectomy is investigated against surveillance (PROSPER, NCT03055013), atezolizumab against placebo (NCT03024996),
nivolumab + ipilimumab against placebo (NCT03138512), durvalumab
± tremelimumab versus observation (RAMPART, NCT03288532), and
finally pembrolizumab against placebo (NCT03142334), with further
trials in development. These adjuvant trials are summarised in Table 3.
Until now, only clinico-pathological features are being used for patient
selection for these trials. No integration of biological recurrence score is
currently used as selection criteria.
Table 3 Adjuvant Trials for Metastatic RCC
Trial

PROSPER
NCT03055013

IMmotion010
NCT03024996

CheckMate 914
NCT03138512

KEYNOTE-564
NCT03142334

RAMPART
NCT03288532

Agent

Nivolumab

Atezolizumab

Nivolumab +
Ipilimumab

Pembrolizumab

Control
Duration

Observation
Placebo
1 month in
12 months
neoadjuvant +
9 months adjuvant

Placebo
6 months

Placebo
12 months

Arm B: durvalumab
Arm C:
durvalumab +
tremelimumab
Observation
12 months

N

766

664

800

950

1750

Endpoint

DFS

IRF-assessed DFS

DFS

DFS

DFS

Specificity Neoadjuvant and Cohort of

Multi-arm
multi-stage design

RCC of any
Study
Population histology

RCC of any
histology
Leibovich score
3–11

adjuvant

≥T2NxM0 or
T any N+ M0
disease for which
radical or partial
nephrectomy is
planned

Cohort of
metastasectomy
patients
ccRCC
ccRCC
ccRCC
• T2 Gr4
• pT2a, Gr3 or
Intermediate-/high-risk
• T3a Gr3–4
Gr4, N0
RCC:
• T3b/c any Gr
• pT2b, any Gr, N0 • p T2, Gr 4 N0, M0
• T4 any Gr
• pT3, any Gr, N0
• N+ any T, Gr
• pT4, any Gr, N0 • p T3, any Gr, N0, M0
High-risk RCC:
• or
• pT any, any Gr,
• p T4, any Gr N0, M0
metastasectomy N1 M0
• p T, any stage, any
of lung, soft
tissue, LN >12
Gr, N+
months
•M
 0 M1 NED
metastasectomy
patients

Abbreviations: ccRCC: clear cell renal cell carcinoma; DFS, disease-free survival; Gr, grade; IRF, independent review facility;
LN, lymph node; NED: no evidence of disease; N, node; M, metastasis; RCC, renal cell carcinoma; T, tumour.

150

Albiges et al.

Biomarkers
As for many other tumour types, the quest for predictive biomarkers for IO
raises more questions than answers. The pitfalls of these investigations are
discussed in Chapter 1.4 (‘Biomarkers of Response to Immunotherapy’).
Specifically, in RCC, PD-L1 biomarker expression carries an unfavourable
prognostic value. Regarding the predictive value of PD-L1 immunohistochemistry staining for nivolumab, or the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab, no selection based on PD-L1 biomarkers should be recommended.
With regards to the staining performed in the IMmotion 150 and the IMmotion 151 studies (atezolizumab + bevacizumab versus sunitinib), the potential interest of biomarkers is still a matter of debate, and may be related to
the potential immune-modulating role of VEGF inhibition by bevacizumab.
Other unsolved questions
While nivolumab has been integrated into all guidelines for systemic
therapies for RCC, and nivolumab + ipilimumab combination is likely to
become the new SoC in the first-line setting for intermediate- and poorprognosis patients, many unanswered questions, more class-related, are
being identified. These include the question of treatment duration for long
responders, the question of treatment beyond progression in patients with
unconventional response and the potential role of rechallenge after treatment discontinuation in responding patients. Some academic trials are
being developed to address some of these questions. As an example, the
TITAN RCC (NCT02917772) study investigated the role of the addition
of ipilimumab to single-agent nivolumab as a rescue strategy in resistant
disease to single-agent nivolumab, either upfront or as acquired resistance.

Conclusion
Over the past 2 years, single-agent nivolumab has integrated the treatment landscape of metastatic RCC with demonstration of OS benefit over
active agents in second line and, more recently, nivolumab combined
with ipilimumab has shown superiority over sunitinib in the first-line setting. These major changes are shifting the paradigm of VEGF inhibition
as the cornerstone of RCC systemic therapy strategy and opening the
way for combination strategies.
2.4.1 Renal Cancer

151

Further research is ongoing, especially combination of PD-1/PD-L1
inhibitors with VEGF/VEGFR axis inhibition, as well as combination
with other ICIs. The appropriate timing for IO use in RCC is under investigation, including clinical trials in the perioperative setting (adjuvant or
neoadjuvant). A major limitation with this class of agents is related to the
lack of biomarkers for patient selection.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Albiges has declared advisory / consulting roles for Novartis, Pfizer,
Sanofi, Amgen, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Ipsen, Roche and Astellas.
Dr Strijbos has declared advisory / consulting roles for Novartis, BristolMyers Squibb, Sanofi and Janssen Pharmaceuticals; research grants from
Janssen Pharmaceuticals.
Dr Rodriguez-Vida has declared advisory / consulting roles for Novartis,
Pfizer, Sanofi, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Roche, Astellas, Janssen and Bayer.
Dr Escudier has declared advisory / consulting roles for Bayer, Novartis,
Pfizer, Exelixis, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Ipsen and EUSA pharma; honoraria from Pfizer, Novartis, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Ipsen, Exelixis
and Roche/Genentech.

Further Reading
Amin A, Plimack ER, Infante JR, et al. Nivolumab (anti-PD-1; BMS-936558,
ONO-4538) in combination with sunitinib or pazopanib in patients (pts)
with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC). J Clin Oncol 2014; 32(15_
suppl):abstr. 5010.
Atkins MB, McDermott DF, Powles T, et al. IMmotion150: A phase II trial in
untreated metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) patients (pts) of atezolizumab (atezo) and bevacizumab (bev) vs and following atezo or sunitinib
(sun). J Clin Oncol 2017; 35(15_suppl):abstr. 4505.
Atkins MB, Plimack ER, Puzanov I, et al. Axitinib in combination with pembrolizumab in patients with advanced renal cell cancer: a non-randomised,
open-label, dose-finding, and dose-expansion phase 1b trial. Lancet Oncol
2018; 19:405–415.
Choueiri TK, Larkin J, Oya M, et al. Preliminary results for avelumab plus
axitinib as first-line therapy in patients with advanced clear-cell renal-cell
carcinoma (JAVELIN Renal 100): an open-label, dose-finding and doseexpansion, phase 1b trial. Lancet Oncol 2018; 19:451–460.

152

Albiges et al.

Choueiri TK, Motzer RJ. Systemic therapy for metastatic renal-cell carcinoma.
N Engl J Med 2017; 376:354–366.
Escudier B, Porta C, Schmidinger M, et al. Renal cell carcinoma: ESMO Clinical
Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol 2016;
27(suppl 5):v58–v68.
Escudier B, Sharma P, McDermott DF, et al. CheckMate 025 randomized phase
3 study: Outcomes by key baseline factors and prior therapy for nivolumab
versus everolimus in advanced renal cell carcinoma. Eur Urol 2017a;
72:962–971.
Escudier B, Motzer RJ, Sharma P, et al. Treatment beyond progression in patients
with advanced renal cell carcinoma treated with nivolumab in CheckMate
025. Eur Urol 2017b; 72:368–376.
Escudier B, Barthelemy P, Ravaud A, et al. Tivozanib combined with nivolumab:
Phase Ib/II study in metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC). J Clin Oncol
2018; 36(6_suppl):abstr. 618.
Hammers HJ, Plimack ER, Infante JR, et al. Safety and efficacy of nivolumab in
combination with ipilimumab in metastatic renal cell carcinoma: the CheckMate 016 study. J Clin Oncol 2017; 35:3851–3858.
Lee C-H, Makker V, Rasco D, et al. A phase 1b/2 trial of lenvatinib plus
pembrolizumab in patients with renal cell carcinoma. Ann Oncol 2017;
28(suppl_5):v295–v329.
Motzer RJ, Rini BI, McDermott DF, et al. Nivolumab for metastatic renal cell
carcinoma: results of a randomized phase II trial. J Clin Oncol 2015a;
33:1430–1437.
Motzer RJ, Escudier B, McDermott DF, et al. Nivolumab versus everolimus in
advanced renal-cell carcinoma. N Engl J Med 2015b; 373:1803–1813.
Motzer RJ, Tannir NM, McDermott DF, et al. Nivolumab plus ipilimumab
versus sunitinib in advanced renal-cell carcinoma. N Engl J Med 2018a;
378:1277–1290.
Motzer RJ, Powles T, Atkins MB, et al. IMmotion151: A randomized phase III
study of atezolizumab plus bevacizumab vs sunitinib in untreated metastatic
renal cell carcinoma (mRCC). J Clin Oncol 2018b; 36(6_suppl):abstr. 578.
Powles T, Staehler M, Ljungberg B, et al. Updated EAU guidelines for clear
cell renal cancer patients who fail VEGF targeted therapy. Eur Urol 2016;
69:4–6.
Topalian SL, Hodi FS, Brahmer JR, et al. Safety, activity, and immune correlates
of anti-PD-1 antibody in cancer. N Engl J Med 2012; 366:2443–2454.
Wallin JJ, Bendell JC, Funke R, et al. Atezolizumab in combination with bevacizumab enhances antigen-specific T-cell migration in metastatic renal cell
carcinoma. Nat Commun 2016; 7:12624.
2.4.1 Renal Cancer

153

2.4 Genitourinary Malignancies
2.4.2 Bladder Cancer
A. Necchi1
V. Crolley2
T. Powles2
F ondazione IRCCS, Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy
Barts Cancer Centre, Barts & The London School of Medicine & Dentistry,
Queen Mary University of London, London, UK

1

2

Introduction and Context
Despite improvements in the clinical, surgical and medical management of locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC), little
progress has been made over the past three decades and the outcomes
of patients with advanced disease remain poor (Necchi et al, 2017). In
general, UC is considered to be a chemosensitive disease, and systemic
platinum-based combination chemotherapy (ChT) is the standard-ofcare (SoC) for neoadjuvant, adjuvant and first-line therapy. The objective
response rate (ORR) to cisplatin-based first-line ChT is approximately
50%, with some differences according to baseline prognostic factors.
However, most patients ultimately progress on first-line ChT, and no
ChTs have yet demonstrated a survival benefit over active comparators
in these patients. Commonly used second-line agents include taxanes,
pemetrexed and vinflunine, all of which have demonstrated only limited
activity and an ORR of 5%–20%. The ‘median’ overall survival (OS)
was 6.9 months in the most up-to-date trial-level meta-analysis (Raggi
et al, 2016).
Of note, standard ChT for UC often causes significant haematological
and non-haematological adverse events (AEs), usually seen after either
first-line cisplatin- or non-cisplatin-based ChT. Another limitation in

154

ChT administration is frequent ineligibility for cisplatin due to the standard criteria adopted in UC (for example, patients being required to have
a creatinine clearance greater than 60 mL/minute). As a result, the overall rates of ChT administration in UC are rather low, particularly in the
early stage perioperative setting. Thus, there is a need for new drugs at
all stages of the disease, with comparable or better ORRs and favourable
toxicity profiles when compared with standard ChT.
The treatment of various solid cancers has been revolutionised by the
advent of various immunotherapeutic strategies, particularly those targeting T cell inhibitory pathways such as the immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). In 2014 Powles et al reported the results of a phase I basket study describing the clinical activity of atezolizumab in metastatic
UC. This anti-programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) antibody rapidly
received breakthrough designation status from the United States Food
and Drug Administration (FDA) in June 2014, and was approved by the
FDA in May 2016 for the treatment of patients with platinum-refractory
metastatic UC. The use of systemic immunotherapy is not completely
novel, since UC is known to be immunogenic. Immunotherapy for UC
has already been pursued with the establishment of Bacillus CalmetteGuérin (BCG) intra-vesical therapy as the SoC for high-grade non-muscle invasive bladder UC (NMIBC), which was the first immunotherapy
approved by the FDA for malignancy.
Basic research over the last few decades has provided vital insight into
the molecular pathogenesis and characteristics of UC, as documented
by the updated findings from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) project (Robertson et al, 2017). Epitopes induced by random mutations in
tumour cells play an important role in the immunogenicity of tumours
and the generation of an adaptive immune response, and UC is considered to be one of the most immunogenic cancers among all malignancies, due to its high mutational frequency, rating first in the retrospective
analysis from the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (Zehir et al,
2017). In this chapter, we present the latest evidence on the role, efficacy
and safety of immunotherapy in patients with advanced metastatic UC.

2.4.2 Bladder Cancer

155

Clinical Results
Use of ICIs as Front-line Therapy for Metastatic UC
To date, there is no established standard first-line ChT in UC patients
unable to receive cisplatin-based ChT, and ineligibility to cisplatin affects
approximately 50% of patients diagnosed with metastatic UC (according
to internationally recognised criteria). Although cisplatin can be safely
replaced by carboplatin in unfit patients, carboplatin-based ChT is less
effective, with an inferior ORR (averaging 30%–40%) and shorter median
OS (8–10 months according to baseline prognostic factors) (Necchi et
al, 2017). Therefore, more effective and less toxic treatments are greatly
needed, and immunotherapy targeting the programmed cell death protein
1(PD-1)/PD-L1 axis offers a unique opportunity for these patients.
In this context, atezolizumab has received accelerated approval from the
FDA and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for the treatment of
patients with advanced UC ineligible for cisplatin-containing ChT. This
approval was based on the results of Cohort 1 from the open-label, single-arm, phase II IMvigor 210 study (Balar et al, 2017a). In this cohort,
119 patients received 1200 mg of atezolizumab intravenously (i.v.) every
21 days, until unacceptable toxicity occurred or there was evidence of
progressive disease (PD). The ORR in the intention-to-treat (ITT) population was 23% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 16–31), including a
complete response (CR) in 9% of patients. Disappointingly, there was
no improved response in patients with demonstrated immune cell (IC)
PD-L1 expression, as the ORR was 28% (95% CI: 14–47) in IC2/3-positive (IC2/3+), and 21% in IC-negative patients. Similar trends were seen
regarding OS, as median OS was 12.3 months (95% CI: 6–not estimable) for IC2/3+ patients and 19.1 months (95% CI: 9.8–not estimable)
for IC0/1+ patients. Overall, the incidence of treatment-related adverse
events (trAEs) of any grade was 66%, and fatigue, diarrhoea and pruritus
occurred in more than 10% of patients.
In May 2017, the FDA also granted pembrolizumab conditional approval
for the same patient population. This approval was based on data from the
open-label, single-arm, phase II KEYNOTE-052 study (Balar et al, 2017b).

156

Necchi et al.

The trial evaluated pembrolizumab in 370 patients, in a design very similar
to that of IMvigor 210. Patients received 200 mg of pembrolizumab every
3 weeks until PD or the development of unacceptable toxicity. The ORR
was 24% in the total population (95% CI: 24–34), including 5% CR. PD-L1
expression was assessed in this study using the Dako antibody clone 22C3,
and the combined positivity score (CPS) was developed. This score evaluates the number of PD-L1-staining cells (tumour cells and ICs) out of the
total number of viable tumour cells. A CPS cut-off of 10% was determined
to be the optimal enrichment cut-off for predicting response using receiver
operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis along with the ORR and biomarker prevalence profile. At the time of the most recent update, the ORR
in all patients was 29% (95% CI: 25–34), and a trend toward improved
responses was observed in PD-L1-positive (PD-L1+) patients (39% in
patients with CPS ≥10%). Mature data from KEYNOTE-052 were presented at the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) 2018 Annual
Meeting by Vuky et al (2018). The median duration of response was not
reached (95% CI: 21.4 months–NR), including 82% who had a response of
≥6 months and 68% who had a response of ≥12 months. The median OS was
11.5 months (95% CI: 10.0–13.3) and the 6- and 12-month OS rates were
67% and 48%, respectively. The median PFS was 2.3 months (95% CI: 2.1–
3.4) and the 6- and 12-month PFS rates were 34% and 22%, respectively.
The safety profile was consistent with previous trials using pembrolizumab.
Additional data are awaited from multiple ongoing, randomised,
phase III studies (NCT02853305, NCT02807636, NCT02516241,
NCT03036098). These studies compare single-agent anti-PD-1/PD-L1
immunotherapy combined with anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4
(CTLA-4) antibodies with standard ChT, or a chemo-immunotherapy
combination with the SoC. Of note, all patients may be included in these
studies, regardless of cisplatin eligibility. There are also clinical trials
dedicated to cisplatin-ineligible patients. In particular, KEYNOTE-672/
ECHO-307 (NCT03361865) is a randomised phase III trial comparing
the combination of pembrolizumab with an anti-indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO)1 compound, epacadostat, versus a combination of pembrolizumab and placebo. The reason for combining pembrolizumab with
epacadostat is based on the promising results obtained in salvage therapy
for metastatic UC, which will be presented later.
2.4.2 Bladder Cancer

157

To date, there are no data to support the use of ICIs as first-line treatment in
patients eligible for cisplatin-based therapy outside of clinical trials, as well as
no evidence supporting the use of the PD-L1 biomarker for selecting patients
for immunotherapy in ChT-naïve patients. However, new developments
in immunotherapy treatments may result in substantial changes in the entire
therapeutic paradigm of UC over the next couple of years.
Immunotherapy as Salvage Therapy for Platinum-treated, Advanced UC
An explosion of clinical trials has greatly changed the therapeutic paradigm of platinum-treated advanced UC, as illustrated in Figure 1 and
Table 1. Multiple studies with single-agent ICIs targeting the PD-1/
PD-L1 axis have shown promise in patients with metastatic UC treated
with ChT. Several agents are currently FDA-approved in UC, and some
of them (nivolumab, pembrolizumab and atezolizumab) are also EMAapproved (Necchi et al, 2018).
Figure 1 Future development of PD-L1/PD-1 inhibitors in urothelial cancer.
Non-muscle-invasive
bladder cancer
Low grade
In development

High grade
ICI+BCG

1st line

2nd line
and beyond

Muscle-invasive
bladder cancer
Neoadjuvant
ICI alone
ICI+ChT

Metastatic
urothelial cancer

Adjuvant

Cisplatin-eligible

Cisplatin-ineligible

ICI alone

ICI alone
ICI+ChT
ICI combination

ICI alone
ICI+ChT
ICI combination

BCG-unresponsive

Trimodality

Maintenance

Platinum-refractory

ICI alone
ICI+BCG

ICI+RT
ICI+ChT+RT

ICI alone

ICI combinations
Personalised
medicine

Abbreviations: BCG, Bacillus Calmette-Guérin; ChT, chemotherapy; ICI, immune checkpoint inhibitor; PD-1, programmed cell death
protein-1; PD-L1, programmed death-ligand 1; RT, radiotherapy.

Atezolizumab
Atezolizumab was the first ICI approved in ChT-treated, metastatic UC.
Accelerated FDA approval was granted on the results of a single-arm,
phase II study (IMvigor 210, Cohort 2), which included 310 patients
with locally advanced or metastatic UC previously treated with platinum-based therapy (Rosenberg et al, 2016). The primary outcome of

158

Necchi et al.

ORR was obtained in 15% (45/310) of patients, with 5% experiencing
CR. Patients with a higher expression of PD-L1 (i.e. IC score 2 or 3
using the Ventana antibody SP142) in the infiltrating ICs in the tumour
microenvironment had better ORR (26%) than patients with no or weak
expression (IC 0-1). With a median follow-up duration of 21 months
at the time of the most recent update, the median duration of response
(DOR) had not yet been reached in all patients and a few delayed CRs
(from previous partial response [PR]) or PRs (from previous stable disease [SD]) had occurred. The safety profile was consistent with the data
from Cohort 1. However, substantial controversy has been raised from
the results of the IMvigor 211 trial. This study was an open-label, randomised, phase III trial comparing atezolizumab versus standard ChT as
second- or third-line therapy after the failure of platinum-based therapy.
In a hierarchical statistical approach, the study failed to meet the primary
endpoint of improved OS in PD-L1+ patients (hazard ratio [HR]: 0.87,
95% CI: 0.63–1.21, p=0.41). However, atezolizumab showed clinical
OS benefit versus ChT in the ITT population (median follow-up: 17.3
months), durable responses were demonstrated in the ITT population
and ongoing response was achieved in the majority of responders with a
favourable safety profile when compared with ChT (Necchi et al, 2018).
Table 1 Immunotherapy in Second-line Treatment of Urothelial Carcinoma:
A Summary of Efficacy and Toxicity
Trial
Atezolizumaba
Pembrolizumabb
Nivolumabc
Durvalumabd
Avelumabe

Efficacy

Grade 3–4 Adverse Events

ORR

PFS

OS

Total

Immune-mediated

15%
(95% CI: 11–19)
21.1%
(95% CI: 16.4–26.5)
19.6%
(95% CI: 15.0–24.9)
17.8%
(95% CI: 12.7–24.0)
17%
(95% CI: 12–24)

2.7 months
(95% CI: 2.1–3.9)
2.1 months
(95% CI: 2.0–2.2)
2.0 months
(95% CI: 1.87–2.63)
1.5 months
(95% CI: 1.4-1.9)
1.5 months
(95% CI: 1.4-2.6)

7.9 months
(95% CI: 6.6–9.3)
10.3 months
(95% CI: 8.0–11.8)
8.74 months
(95% CI: 6.05–NR)
18.2 months
(95% CI: 8.1–NR)
6.5 months
(95% CI: 4.8–9.5)

16%

5%

15%

4.5%

18%

7%

6.8%

2.1%

8%

8%

Abbreviations: CI, confidence interval; NR, not reached; ORR, objective response rate; OS, overall survival; PFS, progression-free survival.
a
IMvigor 210 (Necchi et al, 2018; Rosenberg et al, 2016)
b
KEYNOTE-045 (Necchi et al, 2018)
c
CheckMate 275 (Necchi et al, 2018)
d
A phase I/II study to evaluate MEDI4736 (Necchi et al, 2018)
e
Phase I JAVELIN Solid Tumor trial (Necchi et al, 2018)

2.4.2 Bladder Cancer

159

A 1-year OS of 39% in the ITT population of IMvigor 211 was consistent with the efficacy seen in previously reported studies, including a
1-year OS of 37% in Cohort 2 of IMvigor 210.
Pembrolizumab
Pembrolizumab was first investigated in the expanded cohort of the phase
I KEYNOTE-012 trial. Patients with locally advanced or metastatic UC,
with no limit on previous therapies, were treated with pembrolizumab
10 mg/kg every two weeks until CR, progression or unacceptable toxicity. Thirty-three patients were enrolled, of whom 33% had received ≥3
prior therapies and 66% had presented with visceral or bone metastases.
The ORR was 25%, with 3 (11%) CRs and 4 (14%) PRs. After a median
follow-up duration of 13 months, median DOR had not been reached and
the 12-month PFS rate was 19%. ORR in patients with PD-L1 expression was 38%, and safety outcomes were comparable with those reported
with atezolizumab (Necchi et al, 2018).
Based on these results, the phase III KEYNOTE-045 trial was initiated
with the aim of comparing pembrolizumab with standard ChT according
to physicians’ choice as a salvage therapy for UC (Bellmunt et al, 2017).
In this study, 542 patients were randomised to receive pembrolizumab
200 mg i.v. every 3 weeks for a maximum of 2 years, versus 3-weekly
docetaxel, paclitaxel or vinflunine. The OS analysis of patients with CPS
≥10% showed a 43% reduction in the risk of death in patients treated
with pembrolizumab compared with standard ChT (HR: 0.57; 95% CI:
0.37–0.88; p=0.0048). The median OS was 8 months (95% CI: 5.0–12.3)
with pembrolizumab, versus 5.2 months (95% CI: 4.0–7.4) with ChT,
and more sustained responses were seen with pembrolizumab compared
with ChT. Fewer trAEs were seen with pembrolizumab compared with
ChT for any grade (60.9% versus 90.2%), and especially for grade 3–5
AEs (15.0% versus 49.4%). Findings from this landmark trial represent the first immunotherapy agent to demonstrate an OS benefit over
an active comparator in locally advanced or metastatic UC, with level I
evidence.

160

Necchi et al.

Durvalumab
Additional results from other phase II trials using checkpoint inhibitors
have now also been presented, leading to overlapping results (Necchi et
al, 2018). Durvalumab 10 mg/kg given every 2 weeks was evaluated in
20 patients unselected for PD-L1 expression in the expanded cohort of a
phase I trial in UC. Patients were then selected based on tumour cell PD-L1
expression, with a cut-off of 5% (using Ventana SP263 antibody). Sixty-one
patients were enrolled, with an ORR of 31%, 46.4% in the PD-L1+ subgroup (with a 25% cut-off in both tumour cells and ICs) and 0% in the PDL1-negative subgroup. The median DOR was not reached after a median
follow-up of 6.5 months. According to the most recent study update (n=191),
disease response was observed regardless of PD-L1 expression (ORR
27.6% [n=27; 95% CI: 19.0–37.5] and 5.1% [n=4; 95% CI: 1.4–12.5] in
patients with high and low or negative expression of PD-L1, respectively).
Avelumab
Avelumab was also administered at 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks in a total
of 249 patients enrolled in the expansion cohort of a phase I study; and
the confirmed ORR was 17% (95% CI: 12–24), regardless of PD-L1
expression. Nivolumab results presented from the CheckMate 275
phase II study included 275 patients who had progressed on a platinumbased regimen. The ORR was 19.6% in all patients, and a trend toward
enriched responses was found in PD-L1+ patients (5% cut-off on tumour
cells only; Dako antibody, clone 28-8). The ORR was 28.4% in patients
expressing PD-L1 ≥5% and 15.8% in patients expressing PD-L1 <5%.
Similar trends were observed for OS.

Potential Future Developments
Although salvage combination immunotherapy with the use of a double
regimen (i.e. anti-PD-1/PD-L1 plus anti-CTLA-4) or even a triple regimen (by adding cabazitaxel) may result in improved ORR and enhanced
survival benefit compared with single-agent ICIs, the toxicity and
sustainability of such combinations will likely limit their overall use
(Necchi et al, 2018). The combination of pembrolizumab and epacadostat
appears to be among the combinations demonstrating the most promis2.4.2 Bladder Cancer

161

ing trade-off between efficacy and safety. Epacadostat, an anti-IDO1
agent, was combined with pembrolizumab in the phase I-II ECHO-202/
KEYNOTE-037 trial. The study enrolled 40 patients with UC previously
treated with ChT and reported an ORR of 35% (Smith et al, 2017). However, the development of epacadostat in UC is currently on hold based on
the negative results achieved in the phase III KEYNOTE-252/ECHO-301
trial (NCT02752074) in unresectable or metastatic melanoma (Long et al,
2018).
Several uncertainties remain regarding the optimal use of these therapies.
One issue is that the optimal duration of treatment for responders, as well
as the optimal interruption of treatment for patients who progress, is still
under debate. In a post-hoc analysis of the IMvigor 210 study, approximately 5% of delayed responses were observed after the first evidence of
PD, denoting a disease-modifying activity induced by immunotherapy that
is still largely unaccounted for. Response to ChT after ICIs will represent
another future challenge, and the optimal sequence of chemo-immunotherapy will require further information from ongoing phase III trials.
Retrospective studies have aimed to improve clinical prognostic factors in
the salvage setting, and to apply new prognostic models to the context of
salvage immunotherapy. In particular, a new validated 6-factor prognostic model for OS (including Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status [ECOG-PS], liver metastases, platelet count, neutrophil–lymphocyte ratio, lactate dehydrogenase [LDH] and anaemia) was proposed in
the setting of salvage atezolizumab for advanced UC. The applicability of
this model to other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors and PD-L1 immunohistochemistry assays warrants additional investigation (Pond et al, 2018).
The search for the optimal biomarker approach will require further new
research. For example, two key factors were associated with a response
to atezolizumab in the IMvigor 210 trial: the Teff gene signature and the
TCGA luminal II subtype (p=0.0072). Luminal-I tumours displayed
low Teff expression, and may be regarded as an ‘immune desert’ in their
microenvironment according to Rosenberg et al (2016). Interestingly,
fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) mutations appear to be
more common in luminal-I UC, which has a low expression of markers associated with an immune response, including CD8-T-effector gene

162

Necchi et al.

expression levels. This suggests that FGFR3 mutations occur within a
group of tumours less likely to benefit from immune checkpoint inhibition. In fact, the reported ORR to previous anti-PD-1/PD-L1 treatment
and time-to-progression for patients with specific FGFR alterations are
lower than those reported in studies of a population unselected for FGFR
alterations. Of note, the outcomes of patients with FGFR2/3 mutations
or gene fusions, previously treated with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors and
included in the BLC2001 study (erdafitinib in patients with advanced
UC), have been presented: the ORR to anti-PD-1/PD-L1 agents was
only 3.6% (95% CI: 0.1–18.3), and the median time-to-progression was
3.4 months (Siefker-Radtke et al, 2018). A combination of ICIs and panFGFR inhibitors might therefore be particularly beneficial for molecularly-selected patients.
Tumour mutation burden (TMB), evaluated by quartile split using
the FoundationOne test, was significantly associated with improved
response and survival to atezolizumab (Rosenberg et al, 2016). Similar
findings were reported for patients treated with nivolumab from translational analyses of the CheckMate 275 study, as well as in patients treated
with avelumab.
Future investigations in this field will include efforts to develop clinical
trials with ICIs in patients with non-metastatic disease, and such clinical
trials in early-stage disease may help to reinvigorate the collaboration
between urologists and medical oncologists. Three phase III adjuvant
immunotherapy trials comparing ICIs with placebo or observation alone
(NCT02450331, NCT02632409 and NCT03244384) are now recruiting
patients. These trials focus on the population of patients with pathological evidence of high-risk disease at radical cystectomy who have already
received neoadjuvant ChT or cannot receive cisplatin-based adjuvant
ChT. Additionally, preoperative (neoadjuvant) trials are evaluating
ICIs, especially pembrolizumab and atezolizumab (NCT02736266,
NCT02662309). Pending the initiation of large randomised trials of
chemo-immunotherapy compared with standard neoadjuvant ChT, these
studies are harnessing the window-of-opportunity approach by providing
a short treatment course preceding radical cystectomy, and the pathological response to treatment represents their primary endpoint.
2.4.2 Bladder Cancer

163

Most noteworthy, multiple phase II trials have now entered the NMIUC
field, particularly for patients who develop BCG-refractory disease and
for whom no standard conservative options exist. Interestingly, there
is no need for randomised control arms in these studies, as the objective is to improve outcomes while preserving the quality of life of these
patients. The study furthest ahead in recruitment is the KEYNOTE-057
study (NCT02625961), which provides up to 2 years of pembrolizumab
therapy in a single-arm design, and the results are highly anticipated. It
is hoped that the results of these ongoing and upcoming trials will greatly
expand our knowledge of the optimal timing and combinations of immunotherapy, and will lead to the widespread use of chemo-immunotherapy
as the first-line SoC in urothelial cancer.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Necchi has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Crolley has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Powles has reported no potential conflicts of interest.

Further Reading
Balar AV, Galsky MD, Rosenberg JE, et al. Atezolizumab as first-line treatment
in cisplatin-ineligible patients with locally advanced and metastatic urothelial
carcinoma: a single-arm, multicentre, phase 2 trial. Lancet 2017a; 389:67–76.
Balar AV, Castellano D, O’Donnell PH, et al. First-line pembrolizumab in cisplatin-ineligible patients with locally advanced and unresectable or metastatic
urothelial cancer (KEYNOTE-052): a multicentre, single-arm, phase 2 study.
Lancet Oncol 2017b; 18:1483–1492.
Bellmunt J, de Wit R, Vaughn DJ, et al. Pembrolizumab as second-line therapy for
advanced urothelial carcinoma. N Engl J Med 2017; 376:1015–1026.
Long GV, Dummer R, Hamid O, et al. Epacadostat (E) plus pembrolizumab (P)
versus pembrolizumab alone in patients (pts) with unresectable or metastatic
melanoma: Results of the phase 3 ECHO-301/KEYNOTE-252 study. J Clin
Oncol 2018; 36(15_suppl):abstr.108.
Necchi A, Rink M, Giannatempo P, et al. Immunotherapy for metastatic urothelial
carcinoma: status quo and the future. Curr Opin Urol 2018; 28:1–7.
Necchi A, Sonpavde G, Lo Vullo S, et al. Nomogram-based prediction of overall
survival in patients with metastatic urothelial carcinoma receiving first-line
platinum-based chemotherapy: Retrospective International Study of Invasive/

164

Necchi et al.

Advanced Cancer of the Urothelium (RISC). Eur Urol 2017; 71:281–289.
Pond GR, Niegisch G, Rosenberg JE, et al. New 6-factor prognostic model for
patients (pts) with advanced urothelial carcinoma (UC) receiving post-platinum atezolizumab. J Clin Oncol 2018; 36(6_suppl):abstr. 413.
Powles T, Eder JP, Fine GD, et al. MPDL3280A (anti-PD-L1) treatment leads to
clinical activity in metastatic bladder cancer. Nature 2014; 515:558–562.
Raggi D, Miceli R, Sonpavde G, et al. Second-line single-agent versus doublet
ChT as salvage therapy for metastatic urothelial cancer: a systematic review
and meta-analysis. Ann Oncol 2016; 27:49–61.
Robertson AG, Kim J, Al-Ahmadie H, et al. Comprehensive molecular characterization of muscle-invasive bladder cancer. Cell 2017; 171:540–556.e25.
Rosenberg JE, Hoffman-Censits J, Powles T, et al. Atezolizumab in patients with
locally advanced and metastatic urothelial carcinoma who have progressed following treatment with platinum-based ChT: a single-arm, multicentre, phase 2
trial. Lancet 2016; 387:1909–1920.
Siefker-Radtke AO, Necchi A, Rosenbaum E, et al. Efficacy of programmed death
1 (PD-1) and programmed death 1 ligand (PD-L1) inhibitors in patients with
FGFR mutations and gene fusions: Results from a data analysis of an ongoing
phase 2 study of erdafitinib (JNJ-42756493) in patients (pts) with advanced
urothelial cancer (UC). J Clin Oncol 2018; 36(6_suppl):abstr. 450.
Smith DC, Gajewski T, Hamid O, et al. Epacadostat plus pembrolizumab in
patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma: Preliminary phase I/II results of
ECHO-202/KEYNOTE-037. J Clin Oncol 2017; 35(15_suppl):abstr. 4503.
Vuky J, Balar AV, Castellano DE, et al. Updated efficacy and safety of KEYNOTE-052: A single-arm phase 2 study investigating first-line pembrolizumab
(pembro) in cisplatin-ineligible advanced urothelial cancer (UC). J Clin Oncol
2018; 36(15_suppl):abstr. 4524.
Zehir A, Benayed R, Shah RH, et al. Mutational landscape of metastatic cancer
revealed from prospective clinical sequencing of 10,000 patients. Nat Med
2017; 23:703–713.

2.4.2 Bladder Cancer

165

2.5 Gastrointestinal Malignancies
2.5.1 Microsatellite Instability-high
L. Aulakh1, 2, 3, 4
D. T. Le1, 2, 3
M. V. Karamouzis5, 6
G. Argilés7, 8
J. Tabernero7, 8
 loomberg-Kimmel Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy at Johns Hopkins,
B
Baltimore, MD, USA
2
Swim Across America Laboratory at Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, MD, USA
3
Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins, Baltimore,
MD, USA
4
Ludwig Center and Howard Hughes Medical Institute at Johns Hopkins,
Baltimore, MD, USA
5
Molecular Oncology Unit, Department of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece
6
First Department of Internal Medicine, Laiko General Hospital, Medical
School, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece
7
Vall d’Hebrón Institut of Oncology (VHIO), Barcelona, Spain
8
Vall d’Hebrón University Hospital, Barcelona, Spain
1

Cancer is the second leading cause of death globally. Gastrointestinal
(GI) cancers of the colon, rectum and stomach accounted for 1 518 000
of the 8.8 million cancer-related deaths documented in 2015. Early
diagnosis, access to evidence-based approaches and quality healthcare
services are critical for improved prognosis and survival. Historically,
GI cancers have been treated with cytotoxics and biological therapies.
Clinicians have traditionally used clinical parameters, such as laboratory tests, imaging and pathological results as key drivers for therapeu-

166

tic decision-making. However, the molecular profiles of tumours are
becoming more and more important for optimal treatment. The field of
oncology is increasingly shifting toward novel targets detected in the
genome as predictors of therapeutic benefit. One of these novel targets is
mismatch repair deficiency (dMMR). dMMR tumours are also microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H). A new era in cancer care is emerging and
allows for tissue/site-agnostic therapeutic methods to be a critical part
of standard-of-care therapeutic decision-making, as evidenced by the
recent registration of pembrolizumab for dMMR tumours by the Food
and Drug Administration (FDA), and nivolumab for MSI-H metastatic
colorectal cancers (CRCs).
The aim of this chapter is to describe the differential pathogenesis of
MSI-H tumours, methods of detection for MSI status and clinical implications for therapy.

Pathogenesis of MSI
Short tandem repeats found in DNA are repeats of the same base or
sequence of bases and are found in microsatellite regions. Microsatellite
regions are error-prone due to the greater likelihood of slippage caused
by DNA polymerases mistakenly inserting or deleting bases. Mismatch
repair (MMR)-proficient cells recognise and correct these different base–
base mispairs introduced into microsatellites during DNA synthesis. In
the case of dMMR tumours, these errors are not corrected. Nucleotide
mutation rates can depend on the intrinsic stability of nucleotides, their
sensitivity to mutagens and the fidelity of DNA replication and repair.
MSI is a function of broken MMR proteins and is used as a marker for
dMMR. MMR machinery defects are caused by a deficiency in one of
the four MMR proteins (MSH2, MSH6, MLH1 and/or PMS2,), which
leads to defects in the core heterodimers MLH1/PMS2 and MSH2/
MSH6, responsible for correcting mismatches as they are encountered.
Pathogenesis of MSI is dependent on the biallelic inactivation of MMR
genes caused by either (1) germline mutations, i.e. Lynch syndrome
(LS), (2) sporadic mutations or (3) epigenetic silencing. LS, also known
as hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC), is an autosomal
2.5.1 Microsatellite Instability-high

167

dominant disease caused by a germline mutation found in one or more
of the MMR genes. Biallelic inactivation of the remaining wild-type
allele can be caused by either loss of heterozygosity, somatic mutations
or hypermethylation of MSH2 due to a germline deletion of the epithelial
cell adhesion molecule.
Screening for HNPCC is critical because individuals are at a higher
risk of developing cancer of the colon, endometrium, ovaries, kidneys,
bladder, stomach, small bowel, bile ducts and brain; thus screening has
implications for family members. The highest increase of risk is for
development of endometrial and colorectal cancers. On the other hand,
epigenetic silencing of the MLH1 promoter gene seems to be the primary cause of sporadic MSI, and is associated with a global increase
of aberrant DNA methylation of CpG islands. Additionally, sporadic
MSI is often associated with a somatic BRAF V600E mutation, which is
less common in Lynch-associated cancers. Although rare, sporadic MSI
can arise from biallelic somatic inactivation of the genes encoding for
a component of the MMR heterodimer complex. Lastly, accumulating
evidence indicates a new subtype of MSI-H CRC caused by a mutated
microRNA (miRNA) pathway which may be correlated with prognosis.

Who Does This Apply To?
A broad range of tumour types have at least a small percentage of MSI-H
cancers, with the highest incidence in colon, oesophageal, rectal, stomach, small intestine and endometrial cancers. Furthermore, dMMR
occurs in cancers of the biliary tract, pancreas, ovary and prostate. Estimated percentages for dMMR are the following: approximately 7% of
oesophageal cancer, 15% of colon cancers (2.5% germline mutations,
12.5% sporadic mutations), 22%–33% of endometrial cancers, 8% of
cervical cancer, 22% of sporadic gastric cancer and 0%–2% of skin and
breast cancers. More studies are underway to discover the percentage of
dMMR tumours in other cancer types, as seen recently with Warth and
colleagues (2016), testing for MSI status in pulmonary carcinomas and
finding approximately four MSI-H cases of the 480 tested.

168

Aulakh et al.

Clinical, Pathological and Genetic Criteria Involved
in Detection of dMMR
Detection of MMR status is necessary, due to the globally recognised
importance in identifying patients with LS. For detection of LS status,
the Amsterdam II criteria and revised Bethesda guidelines are currently
used. However, Bethesda guidelines seem to have both a higher sensitivity and specificity. Both criteria use information regarding family history
of cancer, age at diagnosis and tumour histology. These criteria may not
be applicable in some populations. Yan et al (2016) questioned the use
of these criteria in Chinese populations, where the large number of small
families (attributable to the historical one-child policy) makes it harder
to meet all the specified criteria.
In addition to clinical criteria, MMR testing is required and can be done
in multiple ways. Clinicians commonly use immunohistochemistry
(IHC) staining and polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based MSI testing,
with a sensitivity upwards of 90% for phenotypic detection of loss of
dMMR protein expression and MSI status. Both are acceptable methods
to screen for dMMR and, most importantly, LS. Currently, the National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) and the European Society for
Medical Oncology (ESMO) recommend universal testing for MSI-H
status in all patients with CRC. MSI testing is performed on fresh, frozen or paraffin-embedded tumour tissue using the approved National
Cancer Institute (NCI) panel. Initially, the NCI created a panel with five
microsatellite markers to determine MSI status, including two mononucleotide (BAT25/26) and three dinucleotide (D2S123, D5346 and
D17S249) repeats. This has been modified and an alternative molecular
method for detection has been established, which has proven to be more
specific and sensitive than the original NCI panel, and is based exclusively on mononucleotide markers.
IHC is an additional method for detecting MSI status, and is globally
available. IHC can identify the affected gene by detecting loss of its protein product. Loss of expression of a protein can help direct testing for
germline mutations associated with LS. If loss of MLH1 protein expression is evident in a CRC sample, it is also recommended to test for a
2.5.1 Microsatellite Instability-high

169

mutation in the BRAF oncogene. This is the most cost-effective approach
to confirm a sporadic case and exclude LS as a clinical diagnosis. In the
absence of a mutation in BRAF, germline testing for a mutation in MLH1
should be completed. IHC testing has a sensitivity of 83%, regardless
of the MMR gene involved, with a specificity of 89%. It is convenient,
inexpensive and may detect loss of MSH6 protein that can be missed
with PCR-based MSI testing. However, the most common issue with
IHC testing is the variability in fixation of the tumour tissue, which can
affect the quality of staining detected. Biopsies may be a possible solution to circumvent variability, as they show complete and uniform rather
than variable fixation.
MSI and IHC testing have shown to be highly concordant with a sensitivity of >90% and specificity of 100%. A recent study demonstrated the
equivalence of MSI testing and MMR IHC in a cohort of patients with
endometrial carcinomas, supporting previously reported concordance
rates of over 92%.
A newer technology available for dMMR detection is next-generation
sequencing (NGS), which enables detection of MSI as well as genetic
mutations, allowing for massive parallel sequencing. NGS allows for
high-yield output of dozens to hundreds of genes which can be simultaneously sequenced, as well as determination of epigenetic methylation
patterns. NGS- and MSI PCR-based testing present a high degree of correlation in the fraction of unstable loci detected (R-squared values of 0.86
and 0.94, respectively). When compared with PCR-based testing, NGS:
n
Might eliminate the need for separate testing for MSI status (of note,
using tumour tissue to test for biomarkers can give rise to a few challenges, which include insufficient samples and inadequate tumour
cellularity, so that repeated testing as in the case of IHC and subsequent PCR-based MSI testing might not be feasible)
n
Allows for a far greater number of microsatellite markers to be examined
n
Has the capacity to quantify the degree of MSI displayed by a tumour
in terms of number and distribution of novel microsatellite repeatlength polymorphisms

170

Aulakh et al.

One major limitation of using NGS for solely MSI screening is the utilisation of expensive targeted gene-capture sequencing. However, technologies such as MiSeq allow for a less costly platform using smaller
NGS machinery and a streamlined data processing pipeline which is easier to operate, does not require a large computational infrastructure and
requires less time. Results from MiSeq when compared with PCR-based
testing showed high concordance (100% concordance with a few exceptions). BAT25 and BAT26 were 100% accurate when compared with traditional MSI testing, yielding 100% sensitivity (95% confidence interval
[CI]: 83.2–100) and 100% specificity (95% CI: 88.4–100). Furthermore,
technologies such as MANTIS (Microsatellite Analysis for Normal Tissue InStability) allow for the rapid detection of pan-cancer MSI and have
shown highest overall sensitivity of 99.68% compared with MSI Sensor
(96.48%) and MSINGS (76.06%). However, NGS is not the gold standard testing method to detect MSI, as inadequate sample cellularity and
cost remain the major concerns.

Historical Prognostic and Predictive Value of MSI
Before the advent of immuno-oncology, testing for MSI has been
restricted to localised CRC, where MSI status has been shown to have
both prognostic and predictive value.
Popat et al (2005) stratified survival in CRC patients with MSI status and
confirmed the relationship between MSI-H and improved survival rates,
with a combined hazard ratio (HR) for overall survival (OS) of 0.65
(95% CI: 0.59–0.71). When it comes to different pathological stages,
the excellent prognosis for stage II CRC patients with dMMR supports
observation in this group. However, Mohan and colleagues (2016) suggested that MSI-H status was associated with worse outcomes in stage
III versus stage I/II CRC, thus supporting the use of adjuvant chemotherapy (ChT) in patients with positive lymph nodes. In stage IV patients,
MSI status seems to confer a worse prognosis.
Regarding the predictive value of MSI status to ChT in CRC, studies have
examined the relationship between MSI status and response to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based adjuvant ChT. Studies demonstrated the lack of benefit
2.5.1 Microsatellite Instability-high

171

of 5-FU single-agent therapy for MSI-H patients, a situation that could
be reverted by adding oxaliplatin to the ChT backbone, which is clearly
recommended for stage III patients. However, it is unclear whether MSI
can be used as a predictive biomarker for 5-FU-based therapy in the metastatic setting, as researchers suggest that the molecular and epigenetic
heterogeneity of MSI-H tumours may prevent the use of MSI status alone
as a biomarker to guide ChT decisions in metastatic CRC.
In line with the observations made in CRC, the MAGIC trial for gastric
cancer, which tested perioperative ChT, found that patients with dMMR
and MSI-H may be better served by a surgery-only approach. However,
this finding has to be prospectively validated.

Clinical Rationale of Using MSI as a Predictive
Biomarker for Programmed Cell Death Protein 1
Antibody Response
Certain histopathological and genetic parameters related to disease prognosis
in MSI-H tumours support the immunogenicity of these tumours: (1) a hypermutated phenotype, (2) the degree of T cell infiltrate and (3) the level of
programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression. Tumours that exhibit a
high mutation rate due to a defective MMR system are especially sensitive to
recognition by an endogenous anti-tumour immune response. This is seen
either in LS-associated cancers and sporadic GI and endometrial cancers, causing accumulation of anywhere from hundreds to thousands of somatic mutations because of the dMMR system. Clinical trials have used this rationale to
test immune checkpoint inhibition in tumours known to have both a
hypermutable nature and large number of mutations. Based on this rationale,
Le and colleagues (2017) clinically confirmed in a phase II study that a large
proportion of mutation-associated neoantigens (MANAs) in dMMR tumours
do in fact make MSI-H patients good candidates for programmed cell
death protein 1 (PD-1) axis inhibition.
Furthermore, MSI-H tumours have a high number of tumour infiltrating
lymphocytes (TILs) in dMMR CRCs. MSI-H cancers with marked T cell
infiltration may have a more favourable prognosis, which would warrant using this marker for clinical decisions. It is evident that MSI-H

172

Aulakh et al.

cancers have a strong cytotoxic immune response present; so why do
patients still progress? The answer lies in the well-researched PD-1/
PD-L1 pathway. PD-L1 (CD 274) is a ligand to PD-1 and is expressed
on the cell surface of tumour cells with some exceptions (CRCs often
express PD-L1 proteins on TILs and/or myeloid cells rather than the
tumour itself). PD-L1 expression down-modulates infiltrating T cells in
the tumour microenvironment through upregulation of PD-L1 protein,
enabling tumours to survive and harbour immune resistance. Blocking
the binding of PD-1 to PD-L1 may lead to the reactivation of cytotoxic
T-lymphocytes, therefore helping the immune system to recognise and
attack the cancer. However, the expression of PD-L1 is not a definitive
marker of response to anti-PD-1 blockade. Studies using PD-1 inhibitors
(nivolumab and pembrolizumab) in advanced MSI-H CRCs have shown
durable responses regardless of PD-L1 expression.

Clinical Implications
Clinical trials have demonstrated the utility of MSI status as a biomarker of response to PD-1 blockade. In 2015, data from a PD-1 blockade clinical trial testing response to pembrolizumab in patients with
dMMR tumours showed that MMR status predicted clinical benefit
from immune checkpoint blockade for patients with advanced metastatic
CRC and non-CRCs. MSI status was a significant predictor of both the
immune-related objective response rate (ORR; 40% in dMMR CRC,
71% in dMMR non-CRC, 0% in MMR-proficient CRC) and immunerelated progression-free survival (PFS) rate at 20 weeks (78%, 67% and
11%, respectively). Follow-up data on a larger cohort showed an objective radiographic response in 46 of 86 patients (53%; 95% CI: 42–64)
with 21% (n=19) achieving a complete radiographic response. Disease control was achieved in 66 of 86 patients (77%; 95% CI: 66–85).
It is important to note that ORR was similar between CRC and other
cancer subtypes, providing further evidence that MSI-H status may be
considered a strong predictive biomarker across tumour types.
Data from KEYNOTE-016, -164, -012, -028 and -158 included 148 patients
and resulted in accelerated approval of pembrolizumab by the FDA for
adult and paediatric patients with unresectable or metastatic MSI-H or
2.5.1 Microsatellite Instability-high

173

dMMR refractory solid tumours, for whom there are no alternative treatment options, as well as for patients with MSI-H or dMMR CRC who are
resistant to fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin and irinotecan. KEYNOTE-158
and KEYNOTE-164 provided early evidence that MSI-H metastatic
advanced refractory CRC and non-CRC patients benefit tremendously
from immunotherapy. Patients enrolled in these trials had a median follow-up of 7.4 months for MSI-H CRC and 4.5 months for MSI-H nonCRC; ORR for both cancer types was 26.2% (95% CI: 15.8–39.1) and
42.9% (95% CI: 21.8–66), respectively.
Similarly, nivolumab, also a PD-1 inhibitor, showed efficacy in treating MSI-H/dMMR colorectal tumours, and was granted approval by the
FDA for treatment of patients aged 12 years and older with dMMR and
MSI-H metastatic CRC that had progressed following treatment with
fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin and irinotecan. CheckMate 142 enrolled
patients with MSI-H metastatic refractory CRC to evaluate the clinical benefit of immune checkpoint inhibition therapy for patients with a
faulty MMR system. Results from this trial showed that nivolumab was
well tolerated and provided durable response and disease control. Furthermore, these results were achieved in dMMR/MSI-H metastatic CRC
across all subgroups tested for PD-L1 expression, BRAF and/or KRAS
mutations, as well as LS. This study also tested the combination therapy
of ipilimumab plus nivolumab in patients with dMMR metastatic CRC,
and has shown promising preliminary efficacy. CheckMate 032 tested
nivolumab alone or in combination with ipilimumab and demonstrated
clinical activity in both MSI-H and non-MSI-H ChT-refractory metastatic oesophagogastric cancer. Of note, MSI-H patients had an ORR
of 29% in the three nivolumab groups versus non-MSI-H patients who
showed an 11% ORR. This study also showed clinical benefit independent of PD-L1 status across all groups. Furthermore, both CheckMate 142
and 032 found that most adverse events were manageable, and consistent
with the reported safety profile for ipilimumab and nivolumab in other
solid tumours.
Molecular characterisation of cancers has ushered in the age where it
is increasingly important to identify predictive and prognostic markers
before making any treatment decisions. Analysis of molecular hetero-

174

Aulakh et al.

geneity and subsequent incorporation of these new insights into clinical
practice has led to a substantial shift in the way clinicians think about
treatment for cancer. MSI is present at a low but definite rate across
multiple solid tumour histologies. Given the durable clinical benefit of
PD-1 inhibitors in patients with advanced, treatment-refractory MSI-H
disease, it is becoming increasingly important for clinicians to identify
these patients. Planned studies will investigate if this treatment strategy
could be moved to earlier lines of therapy as well, potentially changing
the therapeutic landscape for these patients. Further efforts are needed to
identify the resistance mechanisms to immune activation, which would
increase the degree of benefit from immunotherapies in this population.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Aulakh has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Le has declared research funding and advisory board honoraria for
Bristol-Myers Squibb, and research funding, advisory board and speaking honoraria for Merck.
Dr Karamouzis has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Argilés has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Tabernero has declared participation in advisory boards of Bayer,
Boehringer Ingelheim, Genentech/Roche, Lilly, Merck Sharp & Dohme,
Merck Serono, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi, Symphogen and Taiho.

Further Reading
Cancer Genome Atlas Network. Comprehensive molecular characterization of
human colon and rectal cancer. Nature 2012; 487:330–337.
Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network, Kandoth C, Schultz N, Cherniack AD,
et al. Integrated genomic characterization of endometrial carcinoma. Nature
2013; 497:67–73.
Cortes-Ciriano I, Lee S, Park WY, et al. A molecular portrait of microsatellite
instability across multiple cancers. Nat Commun 2017; 8:15180.
Dienstmann R, Vermeulen L, Guinney J, et al. Consensus molecular subtypes
and the evolution of precision medicine in colorectal cancer. Nat Rev Cancer
2017; 17:79–92.
Dudley JC, Lin MT, Le DT, Eshleman JR. Microsatellite instability as a biomarker for PD-1 blockade. Clin Cancer Res 2016; 22:813–820.
2.5.1 Microsatellite Instability-high

175

Global Burden of Disease Cancer Collaboration, Fitzmaurice C, Allen C, Barber
RM, et al. Global, regional, and national cancer incidence, mortality, years
of life lost, years lived with disability, and disability-adjusted life-years for
32 cancer groups, 1990 to 2015: a systematic analysis for the global burden
of disease study. JAMA Oncol 2017; 3:524–548.
Guastadisegni C, Colafranceschi M, Ottini L, Dogliotti E. Microsatellite instability as a marker of prognosis and response to therapy: a meta-analysis of
colorectal cancer survival data. Eur J Cancer 2010; 46:2788–2798.
Kautto EA, Bonneville R, Miya J, et al. Performance evaluation for rapid detection of pan-cancer microsatellite instability with MANTIS. Oncotarget 2017;
8:7452–7463.
Le DT, Durham JN, Smith KN, et al. Mismatch repair deficiency predicts
response of solid tumors to PD-1 blockade. Science 2017; 357:409–413.
Le DT, Uram JN, Wang H, et al. PD-1 blockade in tumors with mismatch repair
deficiency. N Engl J Med 2015; 372:2509–2520.
Le DT, Uram JN, Wang H, et al. Programmed death-1 blockade in mismatch
repair deficient colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2016; 34 (15_suppl):abstr.
103.
Llosa NJ, Cruise M, Tam A, et al. The vigrous immune microenvironment of
microsatellite instable colon cancer is balanced by multiple counter-inhibitory checkpoints. Cancer Discov 2015; 4:43–51.
Mohan HM, Ryan E, Balasubramanian I, et al. Microsatellite instability is associated with reduced disease specific survival in stage III colon cancer. Eur J
Surg Oncol 2016; 42:1680–1686.
Overman MJ, McDermott R, Leach JL, et al. Nivolumab in patients with metastatic DNA mismatch repair-deficient or microsatellite instability-high colorectal cancer (CheckMate 142): an open-label, multicentre, phase 2 study.
Lancet Oncol 2017; 18:1182–1191.
Popat S, Hubner R, Houlston RS. Systematic review of microsatellite instability
and colorectal cancer prognosis. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23:609–618.
Ribic CM, Sargent DJ, Moore MJ, et al. Tumor microsatellite-instability status
as a predictor of benefit from fluorouracil-based adjuvant chemotherapy for
colon cancer. N Engl J Med 2003; 349:247–257.
Salipante SJ, Scroggins SM, Hampel HL, et al. Microsatellite instability detection by next generation sequencing. Clin Chem 2014; 60:1192–1199.
Sargent DJ, Marsoni S, Monges G, et al. Defective mismatch repair as a predictive marker for lack of efficacy of fluorouracil-based adjuvant therapy in
colon cancer. J Clin Oncol 2010; 28:3219–3226.

176

Aulakh et al.

Sinicrope FA, Foster NR, Thibodeau SN, et al. DNA mismatch repair status and
colon cancer recurrence and survival in clinical trials of 5-fluorouracil-based
adjuvant therapy. J Natl Cancer Inst 2011; 103:863–875.
Snyder A, Makarov V, Merghoub T, et al. Genetic basis for clinical response to
CTLA-4 blockade in melanoma. N Engl J Med 2014; 371:2189–2199.
Van Cutsem E, Cervantes A, Adam R, et al. ESMO consensus guidelines for the
management of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. Ann Oncol 2016;
27:1386–1422.
Vedeld HM, Merok M, Jeanmouqin M, et al. CpG island methylator phenotype
identifies high risk patients among microsatellite stable BRAF mutated colorectal cancers. Int J Cancer 2017; 141:967–976.
Warth A, Körner S, Penzel R, et al. Microsatellite instability in pulmonary adenocarcinomas: a comprehensive study of 480 cases. Virchows Arch 2016;
468:313–319.
Yan WY, Hu J, Xie L, Cheng L, et al. Prediction of biological behavior and
prognosis of colorectal cancer patients by tumor MSI/MMR in the Chinese
population. Onco Targets Ther 2016; 9:7415–7424.

2.5.1 Microsatellite Instability-high

177

2.5 Gastrointestinal Malignancies
2.5.2 Gastric and Oesophageal
Malignancies

1

D. Arnold1
E. Smyth2
Instituto CUF de Oncologia (I.C.O.), Lisbon, Portugal
Cambridge University Hospitals, Cambridge, UK

1
2

Introduction
Gastric and oesophageal cancer are diagnosed in more than 1 million
patients annually. For patients with advanced or metastatic gastric or
oesophageal cancer, limited treatment options are available. Standard
cytotoxic chemotherapy (ChT) in first- and second-line settings results
in a median overall survival (OS) of generally <18 months, and, except
for trastuzumab in human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive cancers and the anti-angiogenic monoclonal antibody (mAb)
ramucirumab, development of targeted therapies has fallen short of
expectations in gastro-oesophageal adenocarcinoma. For squamous cell
oesophageal cancer, there are no targeted therapies available.

The Immune Environment in Gastro-oesophageal
Cancer
Molecular Subtypes and the Immune Response
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and microsatellite instability (MSI) subtypes of
gastric cancer have characteristics associated with enhanced rates of response
to immuno-oncology therapies. EBV tumours demonstrate frequent
amplification of the chromosome 9p, which encodes programmed deathligand 1 (PD-L1) and PD-L2; and PD-L1 expression is high in EBV-positive

178

(EBV+) gastric tumours. Mismatch repair-deficient (dMMR) gastric cancers display a hypermutated genome and are also associated with high levels of PD-L1 expression and tumour infiltrating lymphocytes. EBV and
MSI gastric tumours also demonstrate a high interferon (IFN)-γ response
gene signature compared with chromosomal instable (CIN) and genomic
stable (GS) tumours; this signature has been associated with increased sensitivity to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) therapy. However,
immunogenic MSI and EBV+ tumours are less commonly found in patients
with metastatic gastric cancer than in patients with operable disease.
There are less data regarding the implications of the CIN and GS subgroups and the immune response; however, gene expression data suggest
that inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-2, IL-3, IL-21,
IL-27 and INF-γ, which are highly expressed in EBV+ tumours, are suppressed in CIN cancers. Emerging data suggest that chromosomal instability
and resulting aneuploidy and copy number alterations may act as a mechanism of immune evasion; therefore, CIN cancers, which are characterised by
genomic instability, may be intrinsically immunologically evasive.
PD-L1 Expression and Cytotoxic T Cells in Gastro-oesophageal Cancer
The proportion of gastric and gastro-oesophageal cancers which are PDL1-positive is sensitive to the methodology used to determine PD-L1
status; tumour cells are less frequently PD-L1-positive (PD-L1+) than
immune infiltrating cells, and the infiltrating edge of the tumour is more
likely to contain PD-L1+ cells than the centre. In gastric cancer, CD8+
T cell infiltration and PD-L1 expression are both linked to OS in
multiple datasets.

Immune Checkpoint Blockade in
Gastro-oesophageal Cancer
Single-agent Immune Checkpoint Blockade (ICB)
Nivolumab
ONO-4538-12. Nivolumab is a humanised, immunoglobulin G4 mAb
against PD-1 which is licensed to treat melanoma, non-small cell
lung cancer (NSCLC) and renal cell carcinoma. In the ONO-4538-12
2.5.2 Gastric and Oesophageal Malignancies

179

(ATTRACTION-2) trial, which was a phase III randomised study, patients
with unresectable advanced or recurrent gastro-oesophageal cancer who
were refractory or intolerant to ≥2 standard ChT regimens were randomised
to either nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks or placebo. The primary endpoint of the trial was OS. Recruitment was limited to patients from Asian
countries (Japan, Korea and Taiwan). A total of 493 patients were recruited
and randomised in a 2:1 ratio to nivolumab or placebo. Nivolumab significantly improved median OS from 4.1 to 5.3 months (hazard ratio [HR]
0.63; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.50–0.78, p<0.0001). Additionally,
survival at 12 months was almost doubled for nivolumab-treated patients;
this was 26.6% for nivolumab and 10.9% for placebo. RECIST (Response
Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours) responses were observed in 12% of
nivolumab-treated patients; however, some reduction in tumour size was
observed in 40% of patients. Results according to PD-L1 status were available for 192 patients (39%). PD-L1 expression on ≥1% tumour cells was
observed in 13.5% of patients. In ATTRACTION-2, a survival benefit for
nivolumab treatment was observed for patients with and without PD-L1
expression. Therefore, nivolumab is effective in chemorefractory gastric
cancer, regardless of PD-L1 status.
In ATTRACTION-2, treatment with nivolumab was well tolerated; only 11%
of patients experienced a grade 3 or 4 adverse event (AE) and only 1% had an
AE which led to treatment discontinuation. The most common AEs associated with nivolumab treatment included pruritus (9%), diarrhoea (7%), rash
(6%), fatigue, decreased appetite and nausea (5% each), elevation of aspartate
aminotransferase (AST), hypothyroidism and pyrexia (3% each).
CheckMate 032 (single-agent nivolumab data). CheckMate 032 is a
phase I/II non-randomised study of nivolumab (anti-PD-1) versus combination nivolumab + ipilimumab (anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen
4 [CTLA-4]) at two different dose schedules in non-Asian patients with
previously treated gastro-oesophageal cancer, unselected for PD-L1
status. The primary endpoint of the study was objective response rate
(ORR). In CheckMate 032, 59 patients were treated with nivolumab
3 mg/kg every 2 weeks. The ORR associated with nivolumab therapy
was 12%, median duration of response 7.1 months (95% CI: 3.0–13.2).
In CheckMate 032, 42/59 patients treated with nivolumab single agent

180

Arnold and Smyth

were evaluable for PD-L1 status; of these, 38% were PD-L1+ in ≥1%
of tumour cells. Radiological responses were seen in patients who
were PD-L1+ and PD-L1-negative (PD-L1-). For all nivolumab-treated
patients, median progression-free survival (PFS) was 1.4 months (95%
CI: 1.2–1.5), and median OS 6.2 months (95% CI: 3.4–12.4); 12-month
OS was 39%, and 18-month OS 25%. In CheckMate 032, treatment with
single-agent nivolumab was associated with a similar spectrum of toxicity to that observed in ATTRACTION-2, implying no difference in toxicity in Asian and non-Asian populations.
Table 1 Gastric and Gastro-oesophageal Cancer Patients Treated with Nivolumab
and Pembrolizumab and Combination Nivolumab/Ipilimumab in ATTRACTION-2,
KEYNOTE-059 and CheckMate 032 Trials
ATTRACTION-2 KEYNOTE-059
Nivolumab
N

330

CheckMate 032

Pembrolizumab Nivolumab only Nivo 1 + IPI 3
259

59

Nivo 3 + IPI 1

49

52

Geographic region

Japan, Korea
Taiwan

Age median (range)

62 (20–83)

62 (24–89)

60 (29–80)

53 (27–77)

58 (19–81)

Tumour site:
• Gastric
• GEJ/oesophageal

272 (82%)
58 (18%)

124 (48%)
134 (52%)

19 (32%)
40 (68%)

22 (45%)
27 (55%)

18 (35%)
34 (65%)

Number of prior
regimens:
• 0-1
•2
•3
• >3

0
69 (21%)
137 (42%)
124 (37%)

0
134 (52%)
75 (29%)
50 (19%)

10 (17%)
20 (34%)
19 (32%)
10 (17%)

7 (14%)
19 (39%)
11 (22%)
12 (24%)

16 (31%)
16 (31%)
12 (25%)
7 (13%)

Mixed Asian and Finland, Germany, Finland, Germany, Finland, Germany,
non-Asian
Italy, Spain, UK,
Italy, Spain, UK,
Italy, Spain, UK,
USA
USA
USA

ORR

30 (11.2%)

30 (12%)

PFS (months)
6-month PFS
12-month PFS

1.61 (1.5-2.3)
20.2%
7.6%

2.0 (2.0-2.1)
14.6%
NR

OS (median, months)
12-month OS

5.3 (4.63–6.41)
27%

Toxicity
All Grade
Grade 3–5

141 (43%)
34 (10%)

7 (12%)

12 (24%)

4 (8%)

1.4 (1.2–1.5)
17%
8%

1.4 (1.2–3.8)
24%
17%

1.6 (1.4–2.6)
12%
10%

5.5 (4.2–6.5)
NR

6.2 (3.4–12.4)
39%

6.9 (3.7–11.5)
39%

4.8 (3.0-8.4)
24%

159 (61%)
46 (18%)

69 (41%)
17 (10%)

84 (41%)
47 (23%)

75 (39%)
27 (14%)

Abbreviations: GEJ, gastro-oesophageal junction; Ipi, ipilimumab; Nivo, nivolumab; NR, not reported; ORR, objective response rate;
OS, overall survival; PFS, progression-free survival.

2.5.2 Gastric and Oesophageal Malignancies

181

Comparing the patients treated with nivolumab in ATTRACTION-2 and
CheckMate 032 (Table 1), it appears that the cohorts were very similar in
profile and nivolumab response rates were almost identical. It might be possible to argue from the similarity of these data that the survival benefit associated with nivolumab in PD-L1 unselected chemorefractory patients in the
ATTRACTION-2 study might also be applicable to non-Asian patients.
Pembrolizumab
KEYNOTE-012 (chemorefractory gastric cancer, PD-L1 selected).
Pembrolizumab is a humanised immunoglobulin G4 mAb targeting
PD-1, which is licensed to treat melanoma, NSCLC and MSI cancers
of any tumour site, and has now received Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for chemorefractory PD-L1+ gastric cancer. In the
preliminary KEYNOTE-012 trial, patients were screened for PD-L1
expression prior to study entry, using a ≥1% positive criterion on tumour
cells or contiguous immune infiltrate; using this cut-off, 65 (40%) of the
patients were PD-L1+ and 39 patients were treated on study. An objective
response rate (ORR) of 22% was reported in the 36 patients evaluable for
response. On repeated assessment of PD-L1 status using biopsy on trial,
8/32 evaluable patients (25%) were PD-L1-, highlighting the complexity
of PD-L1 assessment in gastric cancer patients.
KEYNOTE-059 Cohort 1 (chemorefractory gastro-oesophageal cancer,
PD-L1 unselected). In KEYNOTE-059 Cohort 1, 259 patients who had
previously been treated with two or more lines of ChT were treated with
pembrolizumab 200 mg every 3 weeks. Using the combined positivity
score (CPS) for PD-L1 expression (where CPS is the number of PD-L1+
cells of any type [tumour, macrophage, lymphocyte] divided by the total
number of tumour cells × 100), 57% of tumours were PD-L1+. In KEYNOTE-059 Cohort 1, radiological responses were observed in 12% of
all patients (16% of PD-L1+ patients and 6% of PD-L1- patients); however, 42% of patients observed a change in lesion size. These results are
remarkably consistent with those observed for single-agent nivolumab.
Importantly, response rates and disease control rates (DCRs) were higher
in patients who were treated with pembrolizumab in the third- versus the
fourth-line setting (16% versus 7% and 31% versus 23% for ORR and

182

Arnold and Smyth

DCR, respectively). This could indicate that ICB is more effective in the
earlier stages of cancer therapy. In KEYNOTE-059 Cohort 1, median
PFS for all patients was 2 months (95% CI: 2.0–2.1) and median OS 5.5
months (4.2–6.5), comparable with single-agent nivolumab in ATTRACTION-2 and CheckMate 032. In KEYNOTE-059 Cohort 1, grade 3–5
AEs occurred in 18% of patients, leading to treatment discontinuation
in 3% of patients. Immune-related AEs of all grades occurred in 19%
of patients, the most frequent of these being hypothyroidism (9%) and
hyperthyroidism (3.5%); colitis, infusion-related reactions and pneumonitis occurred in 2% of patients. Notably, 4% of patients were MSI-high
(MSI-H); of these, 57.1% had a radiological response, of which 14.3%
were complete radiological responses. This confirms the immunogenicity
of MSI-H tumours and, in the future, may provide a treatment option for
MSI-H gastric cancer patients not benefiting from preoperative or adjuvant ChT in retrospective analysis of several randomised clinical trials.
Regarding outcomes in patients who have been treated with only one line
of ChT, at the time of writing, initial results of the KEYNOTE-059 trial
(pembrolizumab versus paclitaxel) have been released; this trial was negative for its primary endpoint of an improvement of OS in PD-L1+ patients.
KEYNOTE-059 Cohort 3 (treatment-naïve). Preliminary efficacy
results have been reported from a small cohort (n=31) of PD-L1+ treatment-naïve gastro-oesophageal cancers treated with pembrolizumab 200
mg every 3 weeks. In this group of patients, ORR was 26% (95% CI:
12%-45%), of which 7% were complete responses (CRs). This ORR is
higher than that observed in later lines of therapy for pembrolizumab.
Seventy-seven per cent of patients had a reduction in target lesion size,
and median OS was an impressive 20.7 months (95% CI: 9.2–20.7).
Anti-PD-1 therapy in the second-line setting
Pembrolizumab was compared with paclitaxel ChT in the second-line
setting in the KEYNOTE 061 trial. The trial initially recruited PD-L1and PD-L1+ patients; however, the primary endpoint was in PD-L1+
patients (CPS score ≥1). Pembrolizumab failed to improve OS compared
with paclitaxel in the PD-L1+ patient group (n=395); median OS was 9.1
months in pembrolizumab-treated patients and 8.3 months for paclitaxel
2.5.2 Gastric and Oesophageal Malignancies

183

(HR 0.82; 95% CI 0.66-1.03; one-sided p=0.0421). Notably, the survival
curves crossed in the trial, and standard statistical assessments of outcome may be less valid. In subgroup analysis, pembrolizumab appeared
more effective in patients who had high levels of PD-L1 expression (CPS
≥10) and in patients with excellent performance status (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status [ECOG PS]=0).
Avelumab
Avelumab, a fully humanised anti-PD-L1 antibody licensed for the treatment of Merkel cell carcinoma, has been evaluated in gastric and gastro-oesophageal cancer patients. In the phase IB JAVELIN Solid Tumor
study, patients were treated with avelumab 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks.
Eighty-nine patients were treated with maintenance avelumab, of whom
93% had been treated with only one line of prior ChT. The median duration of maintenance treatment was 12 weeks (range 2–62 weeks). Of
patients treated with maintenance avelumab with PD-L1 status available,
38.5% were PD-L1+ at the 1% level on tumour cells. In the switch maintenance group, ORR was 9.0%. ORR was higher in PD-L1+ patients at
1% (10% versus 3%) and 5% (9% versus 5%) tumour cell levels; however, these analyses contain relatively few patients (n=52) in total. For
all patients treated with maintenance avelumab, the median PFS was
12 weeks; median OS not reported. PFS appeared to be improved for
PD-L1+ patients treated with avelumab; it was 17.6 versus 11.6 weeks
for PD-L1- and PD-L1+ patients, respectively.
In the second-line JAVELIN trial group, 62 patients were treated with
avelumab, of whom 9.7% had a partial response. Few patients (n=22)
in the second-line cohort had tissue available for PD-L1 expression;
however, ORR appeared higher in PD-L1+ at 1% (18.2% versus 9.1%)
and 5% PD-L1 expression levels (28.6% versus 6.7%). Median PFS was
6 weeks in the second group. Toxicity outcomes are similar for avelumab
to other ICB drugs, except for infusion-related reactions, which occurred
in 12.6% of the entire cohort. At the time of going to press, a trial of avelumab versus ChT in chemorefractory patients (JAVELIN Gastric 300)
was initially reported as negative for an OS benefit.

184

Arnold and Smyth

Combination Immunotherapy
Combination anti-PD-1 plus anti-CTLA-4
Nivolumab plus ipilimumab (CheckMate 032). As single-agent antiPD-1 therapy is associated with modest benefits in gastro-oesophageal
cancer (ORR 10%–15%), the value of combination ICB in gastrooesophageal cancer is also being explored.
In two of the phase I/II non-randomised CheckMate 032 study arms,
nivolumab and ipilimumab were assessed at two dose levels: nivolumab
3 mg/kg plus ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 3 weeks (N3 + I1) or nivolumab
1 mg/kg plus ipilimumab 3 mg/kg every 3 weeks (N1 + I3). Objective radiological response rates were higher in patients treated with the
N3 + I1 regimen (24% versus 8%), as well as 12-month survival (35%
versus 24%). Survival at 18 months was 28% for N1 + I3 patients and
13% for N3 + I1 patients (and 25% for N3 patients). For the subsequent
randomised trial, the N1 + I3 regimen has been chosen for further investigation. ORRs appeared to be incremented by PD-L1+ status in both the
N3 + I1 and N1 + I3 groups, and were as high as 40% in the N1 + I3 arm.
However, as the number of patients from which this analysis is drawn is
very small (n=10), this estimate is imprecise.
In CheckMate 032, patients who were treated with the combination
of nivolumab and ipilimumab had higher rates of AEs compared with
patients treated with single-agent nivolumab. In the N1 + I3 arm of
CheckMate 032, 35% of patients had a grade 3 or 4 serious AE (versus
17% in the N3 + I1 arm and 5% in the nivolumab single-agent arm).
Similarly, 20% of patients treated with N1 + I3 discontinued treatment
due to AEs, compared with 10% of N3 + I1 and 5% of nivolumab-alone
treated patients.
Therefore, although combination ICB for patients with gastro-oesophageal cancer is associated with increased response rates and encouraging survival, this comes at a cost of increased toxicity. This may have
contributed to the early closure to recruitment of the N1+ I3 arm of the
CheckMate 649 phase III randomised trial. However, response and survival results are awaited.

2.5.2 Gastric and Oesophageal Malignancies

185

Combination Immunotherapy and Anti-angiogenic Therapy
Pembrolizumab plus ramucirumab
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signalling and angiogenesis
may act as negative regulators of the immune response. Inhibition of angiogenesis with ramucirumab is associated with survival benefits in gastrooesophageal cancer, both as a single agent and in combination with paclitaxel ChT. In preclinical models, combining anti-angiogenic therapy with
ICB led to enhanced anti-tumour efficacy. The JVDF trial combined the
anti-VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR2) mAb ramucirumab with the anti-PD-1
antibody pembrolizumab in a phase Ia/b trial in two cohorts (treatmentnaïve and previously treated) of gastro-oesophageal cancer patients. PD-L1
assessment was based on CPS using Agilent antibody 22C3, and 54% of
patients were PD-L1+. Partial responses were seen in 7% of patients, and
stable disease (SD) in 44%. In the JVDF study, the median PFS and OS
in the previously treated cohort were 2.6 months (95% CI: 1.5–4.2) and
6.4 months (95% CI: 4.2–12.6), respectively, whereas 6-month PFS and
12-month OS were respectively 26% and 35%. These preliminary data,
although encouraging for patients with previously treated gastro-oesophageal cancer, are not significantly different from those observed for singleagent anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 therapy in the same setting.
In the first-line setting (Cohort A2), 28 chemo-naïve patients were treated
with ramucirumab and pembrolizumab. Twenty-five per cent of partial
responses were observed, with 68% disease control. Median PFS was
5.3 months and 6-month PFS 35%; however, median OS was not reached.
Toxicity for the combination of anti-angiogenic and immune therapy were expected. Hypertension occurred in 12% of the second- and
further-line cohort and 18% of the first-line cohort, with grade 3 hypertension in 7% and 11%, respectively. Grade 3 colitis occurred in 7% of
patients in the second-line cohort, which appears to be slightly more
common than with anti-PD-1 or PD-L1 therapy alone.
Combination Anti-PD-1 Plus ChT
The KEYNOTE-059 study (Cohort 2) evaluated the effect of pembrolizumab and cisplatin–fluoropyrimidine ChT in HER2-negative treatment-

186

Arnold and Smyth

naïve gastro-oesophageal and gastric cancer patients. The primary endpoint of the study was safety and tolerability; 25 patients were treated (17
Asian patients [68%] and 8 non-Asian patients [32%]). Using the CPS
score previously described, 64% of patients were PD-L1+. The ORR
associated with combination ChT plus pembrolizumab therapy was 60%
(95% CI: 39–69), which is higher than that expected with combination
ChT (normally 30%–48%). In KEYNOTE-059 Cohort 2, different rates of
response were observed in PD-L1+ and PD-L1- patients (69% versus 38%,
respectively). Median PFS was 6.6 months, and median OS 13.8 months
in all patients. These data are encouraging; however, they must be treated
cautiously in view of the small numbers of patients enrolled in the trial. A
majority (76%) of patients experienced grade 3–4 toxicity; however, the
most common toxicities observed were consistent with ChT: neutropaenia
(64%), stomatitis (20%) and poor appetite/anaemia and fatigue (8%).
Figure 1 Algorithm for management of gastro-oesophageal cancer with use of
immunotherapy.
Operable GC
• Chemotherapy
• Chemoradiotherapy
• Surgery

1st line advanced
GC

2nd line advanced
GC

3rd line advanced
GC

• Platinum/
fluoropyrimidine
chemotherapy
• Trastuzumab if
HER2-positive

• Taxane (±)
ramucirumab
• Irinotecan
• Ramucirumab

• Nivolumab
• Pembrolizumab
(PD-L1+)

Abbreviations: GC, gastric cancer; PD-L1, programmed death-ligand 1.

Squamous Oesophageal Cancer
There are few data reported relating to the utility of ICB in oesophageal
squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). In the KEYNOTE-012 study, patients
with both adenocarcinoma and OSCC were recruited. Of 17 patients
with OSCC, the objective radiological response rate was 29%. In a phase
II non-randomised study of nivolumab in chemorefractory OSCC, 65
patients were treated, with a centrally reviewed objective radiological
response rate of 17%. Notably, median OS was 10.8 months, which is
encouraging for a patient group which was refractory to both platinum
and taxane ChT and had a history of significant alcohol and tobacco use.
No results according to PD-L1 status were presented.
2.5.2 Gastric and Oesophageal Malignancies

187

Conclusions and Future Directions
The ATTRACTION-2 study has provided level I evidence of the efficacy
of ICB in gastric and gastro-oesophageal cancer. Despite the limitations
that the results have been obtained in Asian patients only and may warrant further confirmation in Caucasian patients, nivolumab is likely to
become a standard-of-care for patients with chemorefractory disease.
Additionally, pembrolizumab has received a license in the United States
for PD-L1+ gastric cancer patients who have been treated with two or
more lines of ChT. Unfortunately, two second-line trials are negative.
Ongoing trials will help to delineate the role of ICB in the first-line setting, which may be as single agent, in combination with other immune
inhibitory molecules or with ChT. At the time of writing, PD-L1 is not
an accurate predictive biomarker for efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy in
gastric and gastro-oesophageal cancer; standardisation of PD-L1 assessment may provide further refinement, but, as a benefit from ICB has been
clearly observed in PD-L1- tumours, it may be considered preferable as a
biomarker to enrich for response rather than exclude patients from treatment. To date, the relatively immunogenic gastric cancer subtype MSI
has provided the low-hanging fruit for anti-PD-1 therapy, but further
research on the interaction between CIN and GS subtypes and responses
to immunotherapy are required. Work on genomic and transcriptomic
biomarkers such as tumour mutation burden and the IFN-γ response signature will be informed by progress in other disease types. However, it is
crucial to recognise that, as yet, a minority of patients appear to benefit
from ICB, and understanding the mechanisms of immune evasion for the
majority of patients will be necessary in order to design effective strategies for combination therapy in the future.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Arnold has reported consulting and advisory services, speaking or
writing engagements, and public presentations for Roche, Merck Serono,
Bayer Healthcare, Servier, BTG, Terumo, Sanofi Oncology and Eli Lilly.
Dr Smyth has received honoraria for an advisory role from Five Prime
Therapeutics, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Gritstone Oncology and Servier.

188

Arnold and Smyth

Further Reading
Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network. Comprehensive molecular characterization of gastric adenocarcinoma. Nature 2014; 513:202–209.
Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network, Analysis Working Group: Asan University, BC Cancer Agency, et al. Integrated genomic characterization of
oesophageal carcinoma. Nature 2017; 541:169–175.
Chau I, Bendell JC, Calvo E, et al. Interim safety and clinical activity in patients
(pts) with advanced gastric or gastroesophageal junction (G/GEJ) adenocarcinoma from a multicohort phase 1 study of ramucirumab (R) plus pembrolizumab (P). J Clin Oncol 2017; 35(4_suppl):abstr. 102.
Chau I, Penel N, Arkenau H-T, et al. Safety and antitumor activity of ramucirumab
plus pembrolizumab in treatment naïve advanced gastric or gastroesophageal
junction (G/GEJ) adenocarcinoma: Preliminary results from a multi-disease
phase I study (JVDF). J Clin Oncol 2018; 36, no. 4_suppl:101–101.
Chung HC, Arkenau H-T, Wyrwicz L, et al. Avelumab (MSB0010718C; anti-PDL1) in patients with advanced gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer
from JAVELIN solid tumor phase Ib trial: Analysis of safety and clinical
activity. J Clin Oncol 2016; 34(15_suppl):abstr. 4009.
Davoli T, Uno H, Wooten EC, Elledge SJ. Tumor aneuploidy correlates with
markers of immune evasion and with reduced response to immunotherapy.
Science 2017; 355:pii:eaaf8399.
Derks S, Liao X, Chiaravalli AM, et al. Abundant PD-L1 expression in EpsteinBarr virus-infected gastric cancers. Oncotarget 2016; 7:32925–32932.
Doi T, Piha-Paul SA, Jalal SI, et al. Updated results for the advanced esophageal
carcinoma cohort of the phase Ib KEYNOTE-028 study of pembrolizumab
(MK-3475). J Clin Oncol 2016; 34(4_suppl):abstr. 7.
Fuchs CS, Doi T, Jang RW, et al. Safety and efficacy of pembrolizumab monotherapy in patients with previously treated advanced gastric and gastroesophageal junction cancer: phase 2 clinical KEYNOTE-059 trial. JAMA Oncol
2018; 4:e180013–e180013.
Janjigian YY, Bendell JC, Calvo E, et al. CheckMate-032: Phase I/II, open-label
study of safety and activity of nivolumab (nivo) alone or with ipilimumab
(ipi) in advanced and metastatic (A/M) gastric cancer (GC). J Clin Oncol
2016; 34(15_suppl):abstr. 4010.
Kang YK, Boku N, Satoh T, et al. Nivolumab in patients with advanced gastric
or gastro-oesophageal junction cancer refractory to, or intolerant of, at least
two previous chemotherapy regimens (ONO-4538-12, ATTRACTION-2): a
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2017;
390:2461–2471.
2.5.2 Gastric and Oesophageal Malignancies

189

Koh J, Ock CY, Kim JW, et al. Clinicopathologic implications of immune
classification by PD-L1 expression and CD8-positive tumor-infiltrating
lymphocytes in stage II and III gastric cancer patients. Oncotarget 2017;
8:26356–26367.
Kudo T, Hamamoto Y, Kato K, et al. Nivolumab treatment for oesophageal
squamous-cell carcinoma: an open-label, multicentre, phase 2 trial. Lancet
Oncol 2017; 18:631–639.
Lin SJ, Gagnon-Bartsch JA, Tan IB, et al. Signatures of tumour immunity
distinguish Asian and non-Asian gastric adenocarcinomas. Gut 2015;
64:1721–1731.
Muro K, Chung HC, Shankaran V, et al. Pembrolizumab for patients with PDL1-positive advanced gastric cancer (KEYNOTE-012): a multicentre, openlabel, phase 1b trial. Lancet Oncol 2016; 17:717–726.
Secrier M, Li X, de Silva N, et al. Mutational signatures in esophageal adenocarcinoma define etiologically distinct subgroups with therapeutic relevance.
Nat Genet 2016; 48:1131–1141.
Shitara K, Özgüroğlu M, Bang YJ, et al; KEYNOTE-061 investigators. Pembrolizumab versus paclitaxel for previously treated, advanced gastric or
gastro-oesophageal junction cancer (KEYNOTE-061): a randomised, openlabel, controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2018; 392:123–133.
Smyth EC, Verheij M, Allum W, et al. Gastric cancer: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol 2016;
27(suppl 5):v38–v49.
Smyth EC, Wotherspoon A, Peckitt C, et al. Mismatch repair deficiency, microsatellite instability, and survival: An exploratory analysis of the Medical
Research Council Adjuvant Gastric Infusional Chemotherapy (MAGIC)
trial. JAMA Oncol 2017; 3:1197–1203.
Sohn BH, Hwang JE, Jang HJ, et al. Clinical significance of four molecular subtypes of gastric cancer identified by The Cancer Genome Atlas Project. Clin
Cancer Res 2017; 23:4441-4449.
Wainberg ZA, Jalal S, Muro K, et al. LBA28_PR. KEYNOTE-059 Update: Efficacy and safety of pembrolizumab alone or in combination with chemotherapy in patients with advanced gastric or gastroesophageal (G/GEJ) cancer.
Ann Oncol 2017; 28(suppl_5):v616–v617.

190

Arnold and Smyth

2.5 Gastrointestinal Malignancies
2.5.3 Hepatocellular Carcinoma
J. J. Harding1
T. Watanabe2
I. El-Dika1
N. Nishida2
G. K. Abou-Alfa1
M. Kudo2
 epartment of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center,
D
Weill Cornell School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA
2
Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Kindai University Faculty
of Medicine, Osaka, Japan
1

Introduction
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) originates from chronic fibro-inflammatory disorders of the liver such as chronic viral hepatitis, alcoholinduced hepatitis and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. In most cases of hepatocarcinogenesis, HCC develops as a result of sustained viral infection
or chronic inflammation, leading to the accumulation of genetic mutations and selection of hepatocytes with potent growth ability. In addition
to genetic alterations in hepatocytes, recent studies highlight the importance of immune responses that impair cancer immunosurveillance by
tissue immune cells. It is now generally accepted that a wide variety of
immunosuppressive mechanisms operating in HCC tissue play a critical
role in the generation of cancer microenvironment, and interference with
these immunological pathways leads to therapeutic benefit in advanced
HCC patients. Herein, we will focus on the current understanding of
HCC immunobiology and the state of the art in HCC immunotherapies.

191

HCC Immunobiology
An immunosuppressive tumour milieu is created by cross-talk between
tumour cells and immune cells. Cancer cells express tumour-associated
antigens (TAAs), such as alpha-foetoprotein (AFP), New York-oesophageal
squamous cell carcinoma-1 (NY-ESO-1), telomerase reverse transcriptase
(TERT) and melanoma-associated antigen genes A (MAGE-A). In addition
to these typical TAAs, HCCs also express neoantigens specific to individual
tumours. HCCs evade the immune system even though classical TAAs and
neoantigens can be detected by immune cells. Several mechanisms have
been proposed for the explanation of such immune escape (Figure 1).
First, failure to process TAAs into antigenic peptide results in ineffective
presentation of TAAs in HCCs. Second, HCC cells and immune cells in the
tumour microenvironment (TME) produce a large amount of immunosuppressive soluble factors such as transforming growth factor (TGF)-β, interleukin (IL)-10, indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) and arginase. These
immunosuppressive mediators inhibit activation of both innate and adaptive
immunity cells. Third, HCC cells and immune cells in the TME express
immune checkpoint molecules. Immune checkpoint molecules are fail-safe
mechanisms to prevent excessive activation of T cells and are reviewed in
Chapter 1.1. Immune checkpoint molecules include cytotoxic T-lymphocyte
antigen 4 (CTLA-4), programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1), T cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain-3 (TIM-3) and lymphocyte-activation gene 3
(LAG-3). Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) and PD-1 are preferentially
expressed on HCC cells and T cells, respectively. The interaction between
PD-L1 and PD-1 results in T cell exhaustion, and then, as a result, HCC
development is accelerated by escape from T cell-mediated cancer immune
surveillance. In preclinical models, blockade of these immune checkpoint
pathways leads to HCC eradication and, in clinical samples, markers of
T cell exhaustion in tumoural tissue often portend worse disease-specific
survival outcomes. Finally, alterations in the cellular compartment of the
TME, such as the presence of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs),
tumour-associated macrophages (TAMs) and T regulatory cells (Tregs),
serve to further suppress an effective immune response in HCC. Interaction
between effector T cells and these immunosuppressive cells contributes to
the generation of tolerogenic immune responses in HCC.

192

Harding et al.

Figure 1 Establishment of immunosuppressive environment in HCC.

Abbreviations: CAF, cancer-associated fibroblast; CTLA-4, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4; FGF, fibroblast growth factor; HCC,
hepatocellular carcinoma; IDO, indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase; IL-10, interleukin-10; LAG-3, lymphocyte-activation gene 3;
MDSC, myeloid-derived suppressor cell; PD-1, programmed cell death protein 1; PD-L1/2, programmed death-ligand 1/2;
PDGF, platelet-derived growth factor; TAM, tumour-associated macrophage; TGF-β, transforming growth factor-β; TIM-3, T cell
immunoglobulin and mucin domain-3; Treg, T regulatory cell; VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor.

Current Landscape of Immune Checkpoint
Inhibition in HCC
CTLA-4 Blockade
Tremelimumab, a fully human immunoglobulin (Ig)G2 monoclonal antibody (mAb), is an antagonist of CTLA-4 on activated T cells and was
recently evaluated in 20 patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV)-related
HCC (Table 1). The study population included patients who failed prior
treatment with sorafenib and had a large burden of disease with impaired
liver function (57% Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer [BCLC] C, 43% Child
Pugh B, 29% portal vein invasion, 29% AFP >400 UI/mL). Notably, three
of 17 (17.6%) evaluable patients attained a confirmed partial response
(PR). These data are provocative and suggest that a patient subset might
attain durable disease control with this treatment modality. The relatively
high proportion of grade 3 and 4 transaminitis (45%) observed with
CTLA-4 blockade was concerning, although impairments in liver func2.5.3 Hepatocellular Carcinoma

193

tion were reversible and did not progress to liver failure. Another critical
observation from this study was that CTLA-4 blockade did not worsen
hepatitis C virus (HCV) viraemia. Three patients achieved a transient complete virological response, and a patient subset had a transient decrease in
HCV viral load. Given these results, continued development of CTLA-4
blockade in HCC is warranted and, currently, areas of exploration include
CTLA-4 blockade in combination with other immune checkpoint blockers (namely with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 mAbs), pairing with regional therapy
and, importantly, attempts to mitigate CTLA-4-based toxicity.
Table 1 Reported Results from Completed and Ongoing Clinical Trials Using Immune
Checkpoint Blockade in Patients with Advanced HCC Who Failed, Declined or Were
Intolerant to Prior Sorafenib
Clinical trial
number

Agent

Design and size

ORR %
(95% CI)

mDOR months
(95% CI)

mOS months
(95% CI)

NCT01008358

Tremelimumab

II (N=20)

17.6 (not reported)

not reported

8.2 (4.6–21.3)

NCT01853618

Tremelimumab +
TACE/RFA

I (N=32)

26.3 (9.1–51.2)

not reported

12.3 (9.3–15.4)

NCT01658878

Nivolumab

I (N=48)
II (N=214)

Phase I: 15 (6–28)
Phase II: 20 (15–26)

17 (6–24)
9.9 (8.3–NE)

15 (9.6–20)
not reported

NCT02702414

Pembrolizumab

II (N=104)

16.3 (9.8–24.9)

8.2 (2.3–8.3)

not reported

NCT01693562

Durvalumab

II (N=40)

10.3 (2.9–24.2)

not reported

13.2 (6.3–21.1)

NCT02519348

Durvalumab +
tremelimumab

I (N=40)

15 (not reported)

not reported

not reported

Abbreviations: CI, confidence interval; HCC, hepatocellular carcinoma; mDOR, median duration of response; mOS, median overall
survival; NE, non-evaluable; ORR, overall response rate;TACE/RFA, trans-arterial chemoembolisation/radiofrequency ablation.

PD-1 and PD-L1 Blockade
Several mAbs blocking PD-1 and PD-L1 are in development as monotherapy for HCC (Tables 1 and 2). Nivolumab, a human IgG4 mAb to
PD-1, has been extensively tested in HCC. Based on the results from
a large phase I/II study, nivolumab received expedited Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) approval in 2017 for advanced HCC after failure or intolerance to sorafenib. In the study, 262 patients with advanced
HCC and intact hepatic function were treated with nivolumab every
2 weeks in a dose escalation (n=48, 0.1 mg to 10 mg/kg) and a dose
expansion (n=214, 3 mg/kg). Importantly, the agent was well tolerated

194

Harding et al.

– 25% of patients experienced grade 3/4 toxicity in dose escalation;
the most common events of any grade included transaminitis (31%),
increases in amylase (15%) and lipase (15%), rash (31%) as well as
pruritus (23%). Low frequencies of immune-related adverse events
(irAEs) typical of this class of compound were also observed, such as
hepatitis, adrenal insufficiency and diarrhoea. Hepatitis B virus (HBV)
reactivation or seroconversion was not reported, and some patients had a
transient decrease in HCV viraemia. The objective response rate (ORR)
was 15% in the dose-escalation arm with a median duration of response
(DOR) of 17 months and median overall survival (OS) of 15 months. The
dose expansion confirmed these findings – safety was comparable and
the ORR was 20% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 15–26). Responses
were seen across HCC aetiologies and in patients who were treatmentnaïve or heavily pretreated. As a condition of accelerated approval, further trials will be required to verify the clinical benefit of nivolumab.
Table 2 Status of Late-stage Clinical Trials of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors in
Patients with HCC
Clinical trial
number

Agent

Target

Design

Endpoint

Status

Advanced HCC: Not surgical or transplant candidates; ineligible or failed prior embolisation
NCT02576509

Nivolumab vs
sorafenib

PD-1

Phase III

TTP/OS

Accrual
complete

NCT02702401

Pembrolizumab
vs BSC

PD-1

Phase III

PFS/OS

Accrual
complete

NCT03062358

Pembrolizumab vs
BSC-Asia

PD-1

Phase III

OS

Active accrual

NCT03298451

Durvalumab ±
tremelimumab vs
sorafenib

PD-L1
CTLA-4

Phase III

OS

Active accrual

NCT03434379

Atezolizumab
+ bevacizumab
vs sorafenib

PD-L1
VEGF

Phase III

ORR/OS

Active accrual

PD-1

Phase III

RFS

Active accrual

Early-stage HCC: candidates for surgery
NCT03383458

Nivolumab
vs observation

Abbreviations: BSC, best supportive care; CTLA-4, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4; HCC, hepatocellular carcinoma; ORR, objective
response rate; OS, overall survival; PD-1, programmed cell death protein 1; PD-L1, programmed death-ligand 1; PFS, progression-free
survival; RFS, recurrence-free survival;TTP, time to progression;VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor.

2.5.3 Hepatocellular Carcinoma

195

An open-label, multicentre, randomised phase III study of nivolumab versus sorafenib in patients with advanced HCC has completed recruitment,
and results are currently pending (NCT02576509). Patients with unresectable or metastatic HCC who were treatment-naïve and with Child Pugh A
liver function were randomised 1:1 to receive nivolumab at 240 mg intravenously every 2 weeks or sorafenib at 400 mg orally twice a day. Stratification factors included HCC aetiology, vascular invasion, extrahepatic
spread and geography. The primary endpoint of the study is OS. With an
expected sample size of 726 patients, the study has a 90% power to detect
a hazard ratio (HR) of 0.74 with a two-sided error of 0.04 for OS.
Durvalumab, a human IgG1κ mAb to PD-L1, has also been tested in
a small phase I/II study of advanced HCC patients who failed prior
treatment with sorafenib (93% of patients). Of 39 evaluable patients,
four attained a confirmed PR (ORR 10.3%; 95% CI: 2.9–24.2). The
median OS was 13.2 months with 56.4% of patients alive at one year.
The anti-PD-1 mAb pembrolizumab is currently being evaluated in
sorafenib-pretreated patients in a single-arm, phase II trial and in two
randomised phase III studies against placebo in the second-line setting
(NCT02702414, NCT02702401 and NCT03062358).
Finally, other agents targeting PD-1/PD-L1, such as PDR001, are studied
in HCC-specific trials (NCT02795429), while several other agents are
being evaluated for safety and efficacy in basket studies.
Combination Immune Checkpoint Blockade
Although these data are promising, it is important to acknowledge that
the majority of HCC patients will progress or will not attain durable
disease control with either CTLA-4 or PD-1/PD-L1 monotherapy, due
to innate and acquired resistance to each of these treatments. To improve
efficacy, biomarker and patient strategies will be of critical importance
and are reviewed later in this chapter under ‘Future directions and issues
specific to HCC’. Alternatively, combination immune checkpoint therapies may improve anti-tumour efficacy (Tables 1 and 2).
The most relevant example is combination blockade with CTLA-4 and
PD-1/PD-L1 mAbs. The scientific rationale is that immune checkpoint

196

Harding et al.

molecules function at different times in the lifecycle of effector T cells –
CTLA-4 regulates naïve T cell priming and anergy, while PD-1/PD-L1
functions to blunt the immune response of effector T cells in the periphery. Thus, blocking these two pathways is proposed to stimulate T cell
activation further, leading to enhanced tumour eradication. Preclinical
data indicate that dual blockade is synergistic and, in the clinic, combination therapy results in statistically higher response rates and improved
outcomes over monotherapy in a number of solid tumours. In HCC,
both durvalumab and tremelimumab (NCT02519348), and nivolumab
and ipilimumab (NCT01658878, NCT03222076), are being evaluated
in phase I/II clinical trials, and planning for pivotal phase III studies
is expected or ongoing. For example, a randomised, open-label, multicentre phase III study of durvalumab with or without tremelimumab
versus sorafenib in advanced HCC patients opened to accrual late 2017
(NCT03298451). This 4-arm study will enrol about 1200 patients and
explore two dose schedules of durvalumab and tremelimumab combination therapy. The primary endpoint is OS.
A critical question, of course, is whether the added toxicity of combination therapy will be offset by improved efficacy and outcomes. Another
important question is whether sequential or combination checkpoint
blockade might prevent resistance. For example, a recent clinical report
indicates that TIM-3, a checkpoint protein, may mediate resistance to
PD-1 monotherapy, and an antagonist of TIM-3 in combination or in
sequence with PD-1 therapy in vivo improves anti-tumour efficacy. As
more data become available, it is expected that multiple immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) doublets, and perhaps triplets, will be assessed in
HCC. Presently, anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy is being paired with agents targeting TIM-3 (NCT03099109), LAG-3 (NCT03005782, NCT01968109)
and KIR (NCT01714739) in HCC patients.
Combination Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors and Immune Checkpoint
Blockade
Hepatomas are sensitive to tyrosine kinase inhibition, and clinically several multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) have demonstrated
a survival benefit in advanced HCC, including sorafenib, lenvatinib,
2.5.3 Hepatocellular Carcinoma

197

regorafenib and cabozantinib. These agents collectively block vascular
endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) and platelet-derived growth
factor receptor (PDGFR) with varying potency and each agent preferentially blocks distinct signalling cascades (i.e. cabozantinib/MET and
lenvatinib/fibroblast growth factor receptor [FGFR] 1-4). From a purely
empirical and practical standpoint, pairing each of these agents with antiPD-1 therapy might be warranted, although emerging biological data
indicate that TKIs clearly affect immune effectors, antigen presentation,
the TME and the vasculature, and may serve to blunt or augment the
immune response to cancer. In HCC, several preclinical studies have suggested that certain TKIs might act synergistically with anti-PD-1 therapy
and, as such, several early phase studies are underway exploring the
safety and tolerability of anti-PD-1 therapy with many agents, not limited to sorafenib (NCT03211416, NCT01658878, NCT02988440), lenvatinib (NCT03006926), cabozantinib (NCT03299946, NCT01658878)
and axitinib (NCT03289533). In addition, selective inhibitors of VEGF,
MET and FGFR4 are currently being evaluated with studies using bevacizumab (NCT03434379), capmatinib (NCT02795429) and FGF401
(NCT02325739), respectively.

Alternative Immunotherapeutic Strategies
Oncolytic Viruses
Oncolytic viruses function by two major mechanisms: direct viral replication within tumour cells leading to tumoural lysis, and activation of cellmediated tumour specific immunity. Pexa-Vec (pexastimogene devacirepvec), an oncolytic virus derived from vaccinia, has been evaluated in a
randomised phase II study of high-dose versus low-dose intratumoural
injection in advanced HCC patients (n=30). OS was significantly longer
in the high-dose arm compared with the low-dose arm (median: 14.1
months versus 6.7 months, p-value 0.02). In contrast, a phase IIb clinical
trial of 129 HCC patients who failed sorafenib therapy did not achieve
the primary endpoint of prolonging OS in Pexa-Vec-treated patients
compared with best supportive care. Importantly, the study population
included patients with impaired hepatic function (Child Pugh-B7), large
vessel involvement and allowed a heavy burden of disease. A phase III

198

Harding et al.

study of Pexa-Vec in combination with sorafenib versus sorafenib alone
(NCT02562755) and a phase I/II study of Pexa-Vec in combination with
nivolumab (NCT03071094) in first-line HCC patients are ongoing at the
time of writing, with more refined inclusion and exclusion criteria.
Adoptive Cellular Therapy
Adoptive cellular therapies use tumour infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs),
modified T cell receptors (TCRs) and chimeric antigen receptors (CARs),
and these approaches are all being investigated in HCC. However, all
three modalities call for extensive clinical infrastructure since TCRs and
CARs require genetic modification to target specific tumour antigens, the
former in a major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-restricted manner
and the latter in a non-MHC restricted manner. Common antigens studied to date include AFP and glypican 3 (GPC3), as both are abundantly
expressed in HCC with limited expression in normal tissues. Several
studies are underway to evaluate GPC3-CAR in patients with advanced
and refractory HCC (NCT03146234, NCT02715362, NCT03130712,
NCT03198546), as well as AFP-specific TCRs (NCT03132792). Future
success of these approaches will depend on safe antigen selection, common MHC haplotypes for TCR-based research (especially given the
wide ethnic variability observed with HCC) and careful patient selection
given the need for cytoreductive treatments prior to adoptive transfer.

Future Directions and Issues Specific to HCC
Application of Immunotherapy to Earlier Stages of Disease
Clinical trials of immunotherapy have mostly enrolled patients with
advanced-stage HCCs that are refractory to conventional treatments,
such as radiofrequency ablation (RFA) and trans-arterial chemoembolisation (TACE). However, these procedures clearly affect the immune
response and may release TAAs and/or contribute to the induction of
an anti-tumour immune reaction. Intriguingly, tremelimumab in combination with RFA or TACE in advanced HCC (BCLC-C) patients was
found to be safe and led to a 26.3% ORR. Median OS was favourable
at 12.3 months for a heavily pretreated population. However, the effect
of immune checkpoint blockade at earlier stages of HCC has not been
2.5.3 Hepatocellular Carcinoma

199

confirmed, and several pilot studies are ongoing to assess safety and efficacy (NCT03033446, NCT03143270, NCT03099564, NCT02821754).
Furthermore, ICIs are also being tested in the surgical setting, and
several adjuvant and neoadjuvant studies are in planning or ongoing
(NCT03222076, NCT03383458).
Biomarkers and Patient Selection
Specific biomarkers that predict the effect of immunotherapy, including
ICIs, have not been clarified for HCC. The largest clinical effort to date
has been the analysis of tumoural PD-L1 expression in the phase I/II
study of nivolumab – no correlation between response and PD-L1 level
was observed. Several other tumoural markers are currently being evaluated, including viral markers, TILs, immune effector composition, cytolytic score by proteomic analysis and tumoural genomics. Several studies indicated that mutational load and inactivation of mismatch repair
genes are strongly associated with efficacy of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors.
However, mutations in mismatch repair genes, microsatellite instability and hypermutation are rare in HCC. HCC as a field has also been at
the forefront of imaging, and investigation here will no doubt continue
to include novel magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) modalities, texture
and vasculature analyses, as well as functional T cell imaging (e.g. 89ZrDf-IAB22M2C, NCT03107663).
Issues Specific to HCC
As nearly 90% of HCC patients have cirrhosis and most patients have
viral hepatitis, several issues specific to HCC and immune-based therapy
must be addressed. First, transaminitis related to checkpoint blockade
must be evaluated carefully to include an assessment of viral reactivation, cross-sectional imaging to rule out progression and hepatic/portal
vein involvement, and history to exclude other potential confounders
such as toxin-induced injury (i.e. alcohol). In the event of immune-mediated hepatic dysfunction, prompt treatment with corticosteroids or other
immunosuppressive medications may be required to prevent liver failure.
Second, a subset of HCC patients progress after prior liver allograft; in
these cases immune-based therapy is contraindicated and case reports

200

Harding et al.

have shown acute rejection following anti-PD-1 therapy. Third, procurement of fresh tumour tissue for biomarker analysis may be inappropriate,
specifically in cases of poor hepatic function and/or severe hepatic dysfunction. Thus, functional imaging, as noted above, must be explored in
HCC. Finally, specifically to HCV-related HCC, it is unclear if treatment
of the virus will affect immune-based treatment.

Conclusions
The field of HCC treatment is rapidly evolving and, at present, nivolumab
is the first immunotherapy approved for the treatment of advanced HCC.
The immediate and critical questions for this field are whether this new
modality improves OS in the metastatic setting or not, and at what point
during the course of the disease should anti-PD-1 therapy be applied (i.e.
first or second line). Several groups are actively evaluating combination
therapies as well as enrichment strategies to improve anti-PD-1 therapy.
Immune checkpoint blockade is rapidly moving to earlier stages of disease and is being evaluated in the context of a variety of regional therapies. Novel treatments, such as oncolytic viruses and cellular therapy,
are under active investigation. These collaborative and global efforts will
undoubtedly lead to progress and to a new armamentarium of treatments
for patients with this devastating disease.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Harding has received research funding and has consulted for
AstraZeneca and Bristol-Myers Squibb.
Dr Watanabe has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr El-Dika has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Nishida has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Abou-Alfa has received research funding and has consulted for
AstraZeneca and Bristol-Myers Squibb.
Dr Kudo has received research funding from Bristol-Myers Squibb.

2.5.3 Hepatocellular Carcinoma

201

Further Reading
Budhu A, Forgues M, Ye QH, et al. Prediction of venous metastases, recurrence, and prognosis in hepatocellular carcinoma based on a unique immune
response signature of the liver microenvironment. Cancer Cell 2006;
10:99–111.
Duffy AG, Ulahannan SV, Makorova-Rusher O, et al. Tremelimumab in combination with ablation in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.
J Hepatol 2017; 66:545–551.
El-Khoueiry AB, Sangro B, Yau T, et al. Nivolumab in patients with advanced
hepatocellular carcinoma (CheckMate 040): an open-label, non-comparative,
phase 1/2 dose escalation and expansion trial. Lancet 2017; 389:2492–2502.
Harding JJ, El Dika I, Abou-Alfa GK. Immunotherapy in hepatocellular carcinoma: Primed to make a difference? Cancer 2016; 122:367–377.
Heo J, Reid T, Ruo L, et al. Randomized dose-finding clinical trial of oncolytic immunotherapeutic vaccinia JX-594 in liver cancer. Nat Med 2013;
19:329–336.
Park BH, Hwang T, Liu TC, et al. Use of a targeted oncolytic poxvirus, JX-594,
in patients with refractory primary or metastatic liver cancer: a phase I trial.
Lancet Oncol 2008; 9:533–542.
Sangro B, Gomez-Martin C, de la Mata M, et al. A clinical trial of CTLA-4
blockade with tremelimumab in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and
chronic hepatitis C. J Hepatol 2013; 59:81–88.
Thomson AW, Knolle PA. Antigen-presenting cell function in the tolerogenic
liver environment. Nat Rev Immunol 2010; 10:753–766.
Zheng C, Zheng L, Yoo JK, et al. Landscape of infiltrating T cells in liver cancer
revealed by single-cell sequencing. Cell 2017; 169:1342–1356.e16.

202

Harding et al.

2.6 Immunotherapy in Head and
Neck Tumours (HPV+ and HPV-)
S. Alfieri1
M. V. Karamouzis2,3
S. Cavalieri1
L. Licitra1,4
 ead and Neck Cancer Medical Oncology 3 Department, Fondazione
H
IRCCS, Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori (INT), Milan, Italy
2
Department of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, National and
Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece
3
First Department of Internal Medicine, Laiko Hospital, Medical School,
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece
4
University of Milan, Milan, Italy
1

Immunotherapy in Head and Neck Cancer –
the Rationale
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is the sixth most
common malignancy worldwide. Tobacco and alcohol use account for
the majority of HNSCC, while a substantial proportion of oropharyngeal
cancers (OPCs) appear to be associated with high-risk human papillomaviruses (HPVs). Despite advances in multimodality treatment, the 5-year
progression-free survival (PFS) rates of patients with locally advanced
disease do not exceed 40%–50%, and survival in recurrent or metastatic
settings remains dismal. In-depth elucidation of cancer immunology
indicated that immunotherapy represents the future in HNSCC treatment. The effector arm of immunotherapy is regulated by positive and
negative co-signalling checkpoint pathways.
Complete activation of T cells depends on the regulation of a ‘dualsignal’ system. The first signal is derived from specific binding between

203

T cell receptor and a major histocompatibility complex class. The second signal is mediated by the interaction between antigen-presenting
cell (APC)-expressed co-stimulatory molecules and the corresponding
receptor or ligand on the T cell surface. In addition, to ensure that T
cells are not overstimulated, negative co-stimulatory molecules regulate
T cells, mainly cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4)-B7 and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)/programmed death-ligand 1 (PDL1) signalling pathways. After PD-1 and PD-L1 bind with each other in
activated T cells, tyrosine in the structural domain of PD-1 undergoes
phosphorylation, causing dephosphorylation of the downstream protein
kinases SYK and PI3K. This leads to inhibition of downstream proteins,
such as Akt and ERK. Finally, inhibition of the transcription and translation of genes and cytokines required by T cell activation leads to the
regulation of T cell activity. After invasion by tumour cells, these signal
channels are used to inhibit T cell activation and evade attack by the
immune system.
PD-1 is a member of the CD28/CTLA-4/inducible T cell co-stimulator
(ICOS) co-stimulatory receptor family. PD-L1 and PD-L2 are PD-1
ligands belonging to the B7 superfamily. The structure of PD-L1 and
PD-L2 comprise an extracellular region consisting of immunoglobulin
(Ig)V-like structures in series and Ig constant region-like structures, a
hydrophobic transmembrane region and an intracellular region with a
short cytoplasmic tail. The affinity of PD-L1 extracellular region with
PD-1 is lower than that of PD-L2. However, the PD-L1 extracellular
region can also bind with the B7-A (CD80) extracellular region. Only
a few studies have focused on PD-L2 since it is expressed in activated
macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs). PD-1 is mainly expressed on
activated T cells after induction by T cell antigen receptor and cytokine
receptor. PD-L1 is expressed constitutively at low levels on APCs and a
wide variety of non-haematopoietic cell types. Inflammatory cytokines,
such as type I and type II interferons (IFNs) as well as tumour necrosis
factor alpha (TNF-α) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF),
can induce PD-L1 expression.
HNSCC cells upregulate PD-L1 expression through several mechanisms. The first is the activation of the epidermal growth factor recep-

204

Alfieri et al.

tor (EGFR) and its associated downstream effector pathways. Increased
expression of STAT3 and hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1) transcription factors can upregulate PD-L1 expression. The second mechanism is
the amplification of genes coding PD-L1 (9p24.1). The third is the induction of Epstein–Barr virus (EBV): EBV-positive HNSCCs, although not
frequent, can result in high expression of PD-L1 even without amplification of the 9p24.1. Despite reports that HPV-positive (HPV+) HNSCCs
overexpress PD-L1, it has recently been shown that increased expression of PD-1/PD-L1 in the microenvironment of HNSCC is independent
of HPV status. Additionally, in the tumour microenvironment (TME),
the stimulatory effects of inflammatory factors can also induce PD-L1
expression, IFN-γ being the most important.
At present, immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have been studied in
HNSCC patients, and the most extensively used are CTLA-4, PD-1 and
PD-L1 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). The anti-tumour effect consists
of inhibition of the activity of immune checkpoints, blockade of immunosuppression in the TME and reactivation of the immune response of T
cells to the tumour.

Immunotherapy for Locally Advanced HNSCC
The current therapeutic standard for locally advanced (LA) HNSCC consists of multimodality treatment. In this setting, immunotherapy may be
complementary to chemotherapy (ChT), radiotherapy (RT) and surgery.
Immunotherapy and Surgery
In some LA, potentially resectable, HNSCC, ChT can be administered
before surgery, with a double intent: downstaging primary disease to
improve the success of radical surgery and reducing the risk of distant
metastases. Since induction immunotherapy could play a similar role,
several ICIs are currently under investigation in this setting.
The CheckMate 358 trial is exploring the safety and activity of pre-surgical nivolumab in malignancies with viral aetiology (NCT02488759).
Preliminary data report that neither major toxicities nor delays in surgery
have been observed after two courses of anti-PD-1 therapy. In this vein,
2.6 Immunotherapy in Head and Neck Tumours (HPV+ and HPV-)

205

Ferris et al (2016) reported presurgery radiological tumour reduction in
11 of 23 (48%) evaluable patients. A further trial is studying the role of
induction nivolumab and RT, followed by surgery and 6 cycles of adjuvant nivolumab (NCT03247712).
Within another ongoing trial (NCT02296684), no severe immune-related
adverse events (irAEs) nor delays in surgery were observed after a single course of pre-surgical pembrolizumab, resumed after postoperative (chemo)RT. In this study, a pathological treatment effect in ≥70%
of resected tumour or lymph nodes was observed in 29% of cases.
MEDI6469 is a mAb directed against OX40, a molecule belonging to
the TNF receptor superfamily. Safety and activity of this drug in the neoadjuvant setting are being tested in an ongoing study (NCT02274155).
Immunotherapy and RT
RT-induced cell damage is mediated by both physical and biological
pathways. RT leads to host immune system activation through different
mechanisms: inducing an inflammatory TME, increasing tumour antigen
presentation and enhancing anti-tumour cytotoxicity of CD8+ T cells.
Bystander effect is a radiation-induced injury to anatomical regions not
included in the radiation volume but close to it. On the contrary, the
abscopal effect consists of shrinkage of a non-irradiated tumour site distant from the RT site. While the former is mostly physically mediated,
the latter also involves biological processes, notably immunological
ones. In preclinical models, radiation-mediated cell death induces the
expression of tumour-associated antigens. The activation of APCs leads
to T cell stimulation and selection of clones able to react against tumour
cells, even if distant from the RT target. This represents a rational basis
for associating ICIs with RT. In murine models, anti-CTLA-4 antibodies
induce this abscopal effect with fractionated but not single-dose radiation. Anti-PD-L1 agents concomitant with RT reduce tumour infiltration
of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) and activate CD8+ T cells
through TNF-α. An ongoing clinical trial is exploring the association of
pembrolizumab with curative intensity-modulated RT (IMRT) in patients
ineligible to receive cisplatin (NCT02609503).

206

Alfieri et al.

Immunotherapy and Concurrent ChT/Biological Therapy plus RT
Cancers not responding to preoperative anti-EGFR agents have an
immune suppressive microenvironment. Indeed, tumour infiltration of
FoxP3+ Treg cells is more evident and CTLA-4 expression is higher in
patients not responding to induction cetuximab. Two trials are ongoing to explore the safety of ipilimumab in association with cetuximab
and RT (NCT01860430 and NCT01935921). In turn, cetuximab itself
induces tumour cell death through antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), complements mediated activity and enhances activity of
T CD8+ cells. Preliminary data revealed a dose-limiting skin toxicity,
different from typical cetuximab-induced acne-like rash.
Results of a phase I trial evaluating pembrolizumab with concomitant
chemoradiotherapy (CRT) (NCT02586207) were reported in 2017 at the
American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Annual Meeting. Treatment discontinuations due to irAEs were observed in 11% of patients and, in
85% of subjects, total cumulative cisplatin dose was higher than 200 mg/m2.
Nivolumab is currently under evaluation with IMRT and weekly cisplatin (NCT02764593). An ongoing phase III trial (NCT03349710) is
exploring the safety and activity of nivolumab with cisplatin (or without, in ChT-ineligible patients) combined with RT in patients with LA
HNSCC. In this study, nivolumab is delivered every 3 weeks during RT,
then monthly for 6 months. Another phase III study (NCT03040999) is
evaluating the role of combining pembrolizumab with CRT. A priming
pembrolizumab dose or placebo is given one week before CRT, followed
by two doses during CRT, and an additional 14 doses after CRT, totalling
17 pembrolizumab or placebo infusions.
Further trials are studying the safety and activity of avelumab with
CRT (NCT02952586) or with RT plus cetuximab (NCT02999087).
Durvalumab is also being investigated with RT and cetuximab in the
DUCRO-HN trial (NCT03051906).
Intra- or Peri-tumour Immunotherapy
In addition to systemic treatments, some immune-modulating agents
can be administered topically. In 2002, an Italian study (De Stefani et al)
2.6 Immunotherapy in Head and Neck Tumours (HPV+ and HPV-)

207

showed that peri-lymphatic injections of interleukin-2 (IL-2) in patients
with resectable carcinoma of the oral cavity and oropharynx could delay
disease recurrences.
Peri-tumourally-delivered immunotherapies are promising approaches
in the management of HNSCC. Nevertheless, LA tumours are often
close to vital structures, notably neck vessels, therefore an accurate risk/
benefit ratio should be balanced in every patient when considering such
treatments.

Immunotherapy in Recurrent/Metastatic Head and
Neck Cancer – Evidence and Future Directions
The main PD-1-targeting agents approved in HNSCC so far are pembrolizumab and nivolumab, both being humanised PD-1-inhibiting IgG4
mAbs with high specificity. They have been approved (nivolumab in the
USA and Europe, pembrolizumab only in the USA) for the treatment of
patients with recurrent/metastatic HNSCC with disease progression on
or after platinum-containing ChT.
Pembrolizumab
A single-arm phase II study evaluated fixed-dose pembrolizumab (200
mg every 3 weeks for 24 months) in 171 patients with recurrent/metastatic HNSCC after failure of platinum-based treatment and cetuximab.
The objective response rate (ORR) was 16%, with median duration of
response 8 months. Response rates were similar in all HPV and PD-L1
subgroups. Median PFS was 2.1 months and median overall survival
(OS) 8 months. At the time of analysis, 109 patients (64%) experienced
a treatment-related AE (trAE), with 26 of them (15%) experiencing a
grade ≥3 event. KEYNOTE-040 is an open-label, phase III study of
pembrolizumab versus standard-of-care treatment in patients who had
recurrence or progression after a platinum-containing regimen. Randomisation was stratified by Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group
(ECOG) performance status (PS), HPV status and PD-L1 tumour proportion score (TPS). After median follow-up of 7.3 months, pembrolizumab prolonged median OS in the intention-to-treat (ITT) population

208

Alfieri et al.

(8.4 versus 7.1 months), but the difference did not achieve statistical
significance (hazard ratio [HR] 0.81, one-sided p=0.0204), while there
was no difference in PFS. It is noteworthy that pembrolizumab achieved
better OS (11.6 versus 7.9 months; HR 0.58) in patients with PD-L1expressing tumours (TPS ≥50%).
Nivolumab
Nivolumab was directly evaluated in a randomised phase III trial, in
which 361 patients with recurrent/metastatic HNSCC that had progressed
on or within 6 months of platinum-based therapy were given nivolumab
(3 mg/kg every 2 weeks; 240 cases) or standard therapy (121 cases).
The primary endpoint was OS. The ORR of the nivolumab group was
13.3%, versus 5.8% in the standard therapy cohort. Up to 18 December
2015, the median OS of the nivolumab group was 7.7 months and 22%
patients had reached 18-month PFS, whereas in the standard-treatment
arm the median OS was 5.1 months and only 8.3% patients had reached
18-month PFS. The survival advantage of nivolumab was irrespective
of p16 status and PD-L1 positivity, while in an exploratory analysis it
was shown that the benefit was greater in patients without prior exposure
to cetuximab. Regarding toxicity, 139 patients in the nivolumab group
experienced trAEs (58.9%), mainly fatigue, nausea and rash; in addition,
31 patients (13.1%) experienced grade ≥3 trAEs. Eighty-six patients in
the standard-therapy group experienced trAEs (77.5%), mainly nausea,
fatigue and anaemia; among them, 39 patients (35.1%) experienced grade
≥3 trAEs. Therefore, it seems that the curative effect and survival benefit
of nivolumab were more than doubled and longer than with a traditional
regimen, while the number of serious adverse reactions was about onethird of that of the traditional regimen. Additionally, it was shown that
nivolumab resulted in improvement of functional and symptom domains,
whereas investigator’s choice led to clinically meaningful deterioration.
Other PD-1/PD-L1-targeted Agents
Many PD-L1-targeted agents are currently under evaluation for HNSCC
treatment. Among them is durvalumab, a human IgG1 mAb that blocks
PD-L1 from binding to its receptors and is clinically tested in patients
2.6 Immunotherapy in Head and Neck Tumours (HPV+ and HPV-)

209

with recurrent/metastatic HNSCC. Early-phase clinical trials have evaluated durvalumab (10 mg/kg every 2 weeks) in such patients, also showing high PD-L1 expression (≥25% staining of tumour cells). This agent
showed an ORR of 16.2%, with a toxicity similar to that of PD-1 inhibitors. In the overall cohort, median PFS was 2.1 months and median OS
7.1 months.
As single agents, anti-PD-1/PD-L1 molecules have durable response rates of
14%–32% in the second-line setting in recurrent/metastatic HNSCC. However, only a minority of patients derives benefit from single-agent immunotherapies, with some patients not responding to treatment at all, and others
attaining a limited response followed by tumour progression. Ongoing clinical trials use T cell checkpoint inhibitors in combination with other therapeutic approaches to enhance immunotherapy benefit in head and neck cancer patients. These combinations use other co-inhibitory checkpoints (e.g.
anti-CTLA-4 agents), co-stimulatory checkpoints (e.g. anti-OX40 antibodies) and other molecules in the TME (e.g. IDO inhibitors).

Immuno-oncology in Head and Neck Cancer:
Predictive Biomarkers?
The benefit of immunotherapy in HNSCC is not accessible to all patients.
Based on the literature, ORR of immunotherapy in HNSCC ranges from
13.6% (Ferris et al, 2016) to 22% (Bahleda et al, 2017). In HNSCC,
ORR is crucial, considering that specific disease-related issues, such as
infections, bleeding or pain, may improve thanks to tumour reduction.
Furthermore, a better selection for immunotherapy could avoid toxicities. Therefore, the identification of clinical and/or preclinical predictive
factors of immunotherapy response is eagerly advocated.
To date, no factor warrants the decision whether or not to prescribe immunotherapy. Despite this, quite a considerable amount of data is available.
PD-L1 Expression
One important marker is PD-L1 expression on tumour and/or immune
cells. PD-L1 is the direct (durvalumab, atezolizumab) or indirect
(nivolumab, pembrolizumab) target of all immunotherapeutic agents.

210

Alfieri et al.

In this scenario of the immune response prediction, PD-L1 expression is
emerging as the most promising factor, but there are still limitations to
confirm its predictive use. First, there is no consensus about the percentage of PD-L1 positive cells (cut-off) to define a tumour as PD-L1-positive
(PD-L1+). Second, the type of cells (tumour and/or stromal) to be considered for PD-L1 expression has not been established yet. Table 1 summarises these discrepancies for anti PD-1/PD-L1 agents studied in HNSCC.
As shown in Table 1, another limitation is the type of assay used to measure PD-L1. Rimm et al (2017) compared these assays in detecting PD-L1
on samples of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). They found that
three out of four assays identified similar PD-L1-positivity, but one of
them (Ventana SP142) proved to be a low-performance test, with half
of PD-L1+ patients detected. The same concordance has already been
demonstrated in HNSCC.
Considering these limitations, in the nivolumab study (Ferris R et al,
2016) a relationship between PD-L1 expression and outcome was
observed. In fact, PD-L1 expression >1% was notably related to better
OS when compared with tumours expressing PD-L1 <1%.
In KEYNOTE-012 (phase Ib trial with pembrolizumab), with PD-L1
measured only on tumour cells as TPS, ORR was similar among PD-L1+
and PD-L1-negative (PD-L1-) patients (19% in PD-L1+ versus 18% in
PD-L1-, p=0.461). When PD-L1 was detected on tumour and stromal
cells in a combined positivity score (CPS), ORR was significantly different (21% in PD-L1+ versus 6% in PD-L1-, p=0.023). By CPS use, PFS
and OS were also significantly increased in PD-L1+ patients treated with
pembrolizumab.
Table 1 PD-L1 Detection in Studies Testing Immunotherapy for HNSCC
Nivolumab

Pembrolizumab

Atezolizumab

Durvalumab

Type of assay

Dako/Agilent 28-8

Dako/Agilent 22c3

Ventana SP142

Ventana SP263

Type of cells

Tumour cells

Tumour cells
Stromal cells

Tumour cells
Stromal cells

Tumour cells

Cut-off

≥1%, ≥5%, ≥10%

≥50% tumour cells
≥1% stromal cells

≥1%, ≥5%, ≥10%

≥25%

Abbreviations: HNSCC, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma; PD-L1, programmed death-ligand 1.

2.6 Immunotherapy in Head and Neck Tumours (HPV+ and HPV-)

211

In KEYNOTE-055 (phase II trial with pembrolizumab), ORR was higher
in PD-L1+ (on tumour and immune cells) than in PD-L1- patients: 18%
versus 12%, respectively.
In the KEYNOTE-040 study (phase III trial with pembrolizumab), ORR
was progressively higher in the overall population and in subgroups
identified as PD-L1+ by CPS >1% and TPS ≥50% (ORR: 14.6%, 17.3%
and 26.6%, respectively).
These data strengthen the concept that a higher expression of PD-L1
(regardless of cut-off or type of cells considered for PD-L1 detection)
corresponds to a higher response rate to anti-PD1 agents. This was confirmed in two other studies with atezolizumab and durvalumab (Zandberg et al, 2017), both being anti-PD-L1 agents. In the atezolizumab
study, seven patients with low PD-L1 expression (<5%, detected on
tumour and stromal cells) had significantly lower ORR than 25 patients
with high PD-L1 expression (>5%): 14% versus 24%, respectively.
In the durvalumab study, the overall population was already selected
as ‘high PD-L1+’, as only patients with PD-L1 >25% (on tumour cells)
were included.
Human Papillomavirus
HPV-positivity is not predictive, as responses to immunotherapy were
also observed in HPV-negative patients. A trend to higher ORR in HPV+
patients was observed but not confirmed in the atezolizumab and KEYNOTE-040 studies. Moreover, in the nivolumab phase III study (Ferris et
al, 2016), in HPV+ patients, ORR was not significantly different according to PD-L1 expression (32.9% in HPV+ PD-L1+ >1% versus 26.1% in
HPV+ PD-L1+ <1%).
PD-L2 Expression
Other molecules, such as PD-L2, are involved in the PD-1/PD-L1 axis
and could explain why PD-L1- patients also occasionally respond to antiPD-1/PD-L1 drugs.
Yearley et al (2017) analysed PD-L2 expression on tumour, stromal
and endothelial cells in seven cancer subtypes: gastric, melanoma,

212

Alfieri et al.

kidney, bladder, lung, breast cancer (triple-negative) and HNSCC.
Among these tumours, results for HNSCC showed higher PD-L2 expression on tumour cells. PD-L2 was intermediate on stromal cells for all
considered cancers, and low on endothelial cells. In HNSCC, PD-L2 was
predictive of response, regardless of PD-L1. OS and PFS were better
in PD-L2+ than in PD-L2- patients. ORR was higher with concomitant
PD-L1- and PD-L2+.
Other Possible Predictive Factors
Another potentially predictive factor is IFN-γ, which seems to play a
role in blocking the anti-tumour immune response (Abiko et al, 2015).
Regularly, IFN-γ induces higher PD-L1 expression on immune, stromal
and tumour cells, thus enabling the interaction between PD-L1 and PD-1
on the intra-tumour T lymphocytes. Therefore, tumours expressing the
IFN-γ gene signature, highly producing IFN-γ (inflamed gene expression
profile [GEP]), have a higher probability to respond to anti-PD-1/PD-L1
drugs and to improve OS and PFS.
Another determinant of response is the tumour mutation burden (TMB).
In advanced tumours, response to immunotherapy was higher if TMB
was higher (Le et al, 2015). This is due to a higher exposition of neoantigens in highly-mutated tumours. In this way, these neo-generated
epitopes are more easily recognisable by the immune system when
amplified by immunotherapy.
The combination of different predictors may represent the best strategy
to select patients for immunotherapy. In NSCLC patients treated with
durvalumab, the concomitant lack of PD-L1 and IFN-γ signature reached
a negative predictive value of 97% (Higgs et al, 2016).
The last factor is the gut microbiome. The influence of different composition of gut microbiome on response to anti-PD-1 agents was recently
reported in other tumours, such as kidney and NSCLC (Routy et al,
2018). In HNSCC, the only available data come from the nivolumab
study, where there was no difference in saliva microbiome composition
between responders and non-responders. Further studies are needed to
clarify the predictive role of microbiome.
2.6 Immunotherapy in Head and Neck Tumours (HPV+ and HPV-)

213

Conclusion
Almost 10 years after the approval of cetuximab, immunotherapy is
beginning to enrich the therapeutic armamentarium for recurrent/metastatic HNSCC. Moreover, immune agents offer medical oncologists a
great opportunity to possibly change the management of this cancer, also
in earlier disease stages. Unfortunately, current evidence confirms that
only a minority of HNSCC patients may benefit from immunotherapy.
Therefore, research efforts are focused on identifying the main characteristics of immune responders.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Alfieri has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Karamouzis has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Cavalieri has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Licitra has reported research grants/support from Eisai, Merck Sharp
& Dohme, Merck Serono, Boehringer Ingelheim, Novartis, AstraZeneca
and Roche (funds received by the author’s institution for clinical studies
and research activities in which she is involved); honoraria or consultation
fees from Eisai, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Merck
Serono, Boehringer Ingelheim, Novartis, AstraZeneca, Roche, Bayer,
Debiopharm and SOBI; and travel grants from Merck Serono, BristolMyers Squibb, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Debiopharm, SOBI and Bayer.

Further Reading
Abiko K, Matsumura N, Hamanishi J, et al. IFN-γ from lymphocytes induces
PD-L1 expression and promotes progression of ovarian cancer. Br J Cancer
2015; 112:1501–1509.
Bahleda R, Braiteh FS, Balmanoukian AS, et al. 1044O – Long-term safety and
clinical outcomes of atezolizumab in head and neck cancer: phase Ia trial
results. Ann Oncol 2017; 28(suppl 5):373.
Chow LQM, Haddad R, Gupta S, et al. Antitumor activity of pembrolizumab
in biomarker-unselected patients with recurrent and/or metastatic head and
neck squamous cell carcinoma: results from the phase Ib KEYNOTE-012
expansion cohort. J Clin Oncol 2016; 34:3838–3845.

214

Alfieri et al.

Cohen EE, Harrington KJ, Le Tourneau C, et al. LBA45_PR – Pembrolizumab
(pembro) vs standard of care (SOC) for recurrent or metastatic head and neck
squamous cell carcinoma (R/M HNSCC): Phase 3 KEYNOTE-040 trial. Ann
Oncol 2017; 28(suppl 5):628.
Demaria S, Golden EB, Formenti SC. Role of local radiation therapy in cancer
immunotherapy. JAMA Oncol 2015; 1:1325–1332.
Demaria S, Ng B, Devitt ML, et al. Ionizing radiation inhibition of distant
untreated tumors (abscopal effect) is immune mediated. Int J Radiat Oncol
Biol Phys 2004; 58:862–870.
Deng L, Liang H, Burnette B, et al. Irradiation and anti-PD-L1 treatment
synergistically promote antitumor immunity in mice. J Clin Invest 2014;
124:687–695.
De Stefani A, Forni G, Ragona R, et al. Improved survival with perilymphatic
interleukin 2 in patients with resectable squamous cell carcinoma of the oral
cavity and oropharynx. Cancer 2002; 95:90–97.
Ferris RL, Blumenschein G Jr, Fayette J, et al. Nivolumab for recurrent squamouscell carcinoma of the head and neck. N Engl J Med 2016; 375:1856–1867.
Haddad RI, Seiwert TY, Chow LQM, et al. Genomic determinants of response to
pembrolizumab in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). J Clin
Oncol 2017; 35(15_suppl):abstr. 6009.
Higgs BW, Morehouse C, Streicher K, et al. Relationship of baseline tumoral
IFNγ mRNA and PD-L1 protein expression to overall survival in durvalumabtreated NSCLC patients. J Clin Oncol 2016; 34(15_suppl):abstr. 3036.
Hsu YF, Ajona D, Corrales L, et al. Complement activation mediates cetuximab
inhibition of non-small cell lung cancer tumor growth in vivo. Mol Cancer
2010; 9:139.
Le DT, Uram JN, Wang H, et al. PD-1 blockade in tumors with mismatch-repair
deficiency. N Engl J Med 2015; 372:2509–2520.
Licitra L, Karamouzis MV, eds. Head & Neck Cancers: Essentials for Clinicians.
Viganello-Lugano: ESMO Press, 2017.
Ratcliffe MJ, Sharpe A, Rebelatto M, et al. 955PD – A comparative study of
PD-L1 diagnostic assays in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck
(SCCHN). Ann Oncol 2016; 27(suppl 6):vi328-vi350.
Rimm DL, Han G, Taube JM, et al. A prospective, multi-institutional, pathologist-based assessment of 4 immunohistochemistry assays for PD-L1 expression in non-small cell lung cancer. JAMA Oncol 2017; 3:1051–1058.
Routy B, Le Chatelier E, Derosa L, et al. Gut microbiome influences efficacy
of PD-1-based immunotherapy against epithelial tumors. Science 2018;
359:91–97.

2.6 Immunotherapy in Head and Neck Tumours (HPV+ and HPV-)

215

Seiwert TY, Burtness B, Weiss J, et al. Inflamed-phenotype gene expression signatures to predict benefit from anti-PD-1 antibody pembrolizumab in PD-L1+
head and neck cancer patients. J Clin Oncol 2015; 33(15_suppl):abstr. 6017.
Tang C, Wang X, Soh H, et al. Combining radiation and immunotherapy: a new
systemic therapy for solid tumors? Cancer Immunol Res 2014; 2:831–838.
Yearley JH, Gibson C, Yu N, et al. PD-L2 expression in human tumors: relevance
to anti-PD-1 therapy in cancer. Clin Cancer Res 2017; 23:3158–3167.
Zandberg D, Algazi A, Jimeno A, et al. 1042O – Durvalumab for recurrent/
metastatic (R/M) head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC): preliminary results from a single-arm, phase 2 study. Ann Oncol 2017; 28(suppl
5):v372–v394.

216

Alfieri et al.

2.7 Immunotherapies in
Lymphoma
V. Ballová1
M. Ghielmini2
Haematology/Oncology, Kantonsspital Baden, Baden, Switzerland
Oncology Institute of Southern Switzerland, Ospedale San Giovanni,
Bellinzona, Switzerland

1

2

Introduction
Lymphomas were one of the first cancers to show sensitivity to manipulations of the immune system; in particular, indolent lymphomas
responded to interferon and vaccination in studies performed in the
1980s. Lymphomas are a big and rather heterogeneous group of tumours
arising from the immune system and dissecting the value of different
types of immunotherapy on each single lymphoma entity goes beyond
the purpose of this chapter. We will therefore address the most relevant
ones in the context of each different type of immunotherapy.

Monoclonal Antibodies
Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) are used in lymphoma treatment either
in their ‘naked’ form (no other molecule attached to them) or as vectors of cytotoxic substances (such as the anti-CD30 brentuximab vedotin [BV], active in Hodgkin lymphoma) or of radioactive isotopes (such
as 90Y-ibritumomab tiuxetan, active in follicular lymphoma [FL]). As
the latter is finally a technique to deliver targeted chemotherapy (ChT)
and radiotherapy (RT) rather than pure immunotherapy, it will not be
addressed in this chapter.
The anti-CD20 mAb rituximab revolutionised the management of patients
with FL, diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and other CD20-positive

217

B cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas (B-NHLs). Rituximab is particularly
active, with little toxicity, due to its ability to kill normal and cancer B
cells (bearing CD20 on their surface) while totally sparing T cells and
other body tissues (all CD20-negative). The introduction of this drug
(usually given in association with ChT) has improved the median survival
of patients with B cell lymphomas by 20%–30% in the last 20 years.
The mechanisms of action of rituximab are classically believed to be
based on so-called ‘passive immunotherapy effects’, including complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP)
and programmed cell death (PCD). Nevertheless, some elements suggest
that rituximab could also elicit an active immune response with expansion of specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes.
Facts Suggesting a ‘Vaccinal Effect’ of Rituximab
In vitro experiments suggest that rituximab treatment causes inflammatory death of lymphoma cells, releasing antigens from apoptotic cells
and promoting the uptake, processing and cross-presentation of lymphoma cell-derived antigens by antigen-presenting cells (APCs) to T
cells, thus inducing expansion and activation of specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Findings from a clinical trial of patients with FL treated with
rituximab alone provide evidence that the ‘passive’ immunotherapy with
rituximab can elicit an active T cell response. To increase the ‘vaccinal
effect’ of rituximab, phase II clinical trials combining immunomodulatory cytokines with rituximab in patients with indolent B-NHL were
performed: combining rituximab with interferon (IFN)-α or macrophage
colony-stimulating factor seems to improve both the quality and duration of clinical response. Also, the onset of maximal response several
months after the last infusion of rituximab and the long-lasting complete
remissions in responding FL patients, even when treated for a short time,
suggest that, in addition to passive immunotherapy, an active ‘vaccinal
effect’ could be contributing to the activity. Finally, patients with Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia treated with rituximab alone show a
gradual reduction of serum immunoglobulin (Ig)M over several months
after the last infusion, which supports this hypothesis.

218

Ballová and Ghielmini

To improve antitumour activity and Fc binding affinity, several new generations of anti-CD20 mAbs have been engineered. The second-generation mAbs (ocrelizumab, veltuzumab, ofatumumab) are designed as
humanised or fully human with unmodified Fc domain, with the aim of
reducing immunogenicity compared with the first-generation chimeric
mAb rituximab. The third-generation mAbs are humanised and modified
in the Fc region. The modification of Fc domain may improve antitumour activity in patients with low-affinity versions of the Fc receptor
expressed on their tumour cells, due to increased binding affinity and
increased cell death through ADCC mechanisms (obinutuzumab).
Other mAbs active in lymphomas are:
n
Epratuzumab: anti-CD22
n
Lumiliximab: anti-CD23
n
Otlertuzumab: anti-CD37
n
Milatuzumab: anti-CD74
n
Polatuzumab: anti-CD79b
n
Galiximab: anti-CD80.

Interferons
IFNs are small proteins and glycoproteins produced by cells in response to
viral infections. The antiproliferative activity of IFN consists of direct and
indirect effects. Direct effect is mediated through cancer cell growth inhibition by cell cycle arrest, apoptosis or differentiation. Indirect effect occurs
via expansion and activation of specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes and natural killers (NKs), inhibition of angiogenesis and induction of cytokines.
A meta-analysis evaluating the role of INF-α-2b in FL showed prolongation of survival and remission duration when IFN was given in the
context of relatively intensive initial ChT at a dose of ≥5 million units.
However, the use of systematically administered INF-α-2b in treating B
cell lymphoma was limited by its short half-life and rather high toxicity.
Treatment with IFN plays a key role in a group of rare hepatitis C virus
(HCV)-associated indolent B-NHLs. The association between HCV and
2.7 Immunotherapies in Lymphoma

219

B-NHL is now widely accepted. The most accepted pathogenetic models
rely on chronic antigenic stimulation of lymphocyte receptors by viral
antigens eliciting B cell proliferation.

Vaccination
Despite significant progress in therapy, indolent lymphomas remain
incurable. Using vaccines to induce tumour-specific immune response is
one possible strategy to eradicate the residual lymphoma cells.
Idiotype (Id) is the unique and tumour-specific variable component of
the surface Ig present on each B lymphoma cell. Most clinical trials of Id
vaccines have been performed on patients with FL, because the indolent
nature of FL allows the necessary time for the individual vaccine to be
prepared and for the patient’s immune system to recover after immunosuppressive ChT. Early studies have shown that the treatment with Id vaccines
can elicit a tumour-specific response and favourably affect disease-free
and overall survival (DFS and OS) in patients responding to vaccination.
The promising results of Id vaccines from small single-arm studies was
unfortunately not confirmed in randomised phase III studies. Out of three
randomised clinical trials, only one showed prolonged DFS in a subgroup
of vaccinated patients with FL. The significant differences in trial design
and vaccine production are most likely responsible for the failures and
conflicting results of the trials. However, the trials do provide several valuable insights with respect to clinical use of Id vaccine approaches.
What have we learnt from vaccination clinical trials?
n
Factors correlating with improved OS after vaccination:
• Achieving a durable complete response (CR)/CR unconfirmed after
induction ChT
• Induction of specific anti-Id antibody via vaccination
n
Clinical setting, in which the vaccine is likely to be most effective:
• Vaccination as a consolidation therapy to eradicate residual
lymphoma cells after induction therapy
n
Type of lymphoma:
• Indolent B cell lymphomas respond well to the induction therapy

220

Ballová and Ghielmini

n

n

n

n

Vaccination timing:
• 2–6 months after completion of ChT in patients with sustained
remission
Tolerability and toxicity of vaccination:
• Non-immunosuppressive, non-myelotoxic, well tolerated, mostly
injection site reactions or flu-like symptoms
Manufacturing procedures:
• In the studies showing survival benefit, the vaccine was generated
from hybridoma
Possible differences in immunogenicity of Id vaccine according to
the isotype of the Fc region:
• Vaccination with IgM-Id, but not with IgG-Id, significantly prolonged DFS compared with matched controls


Vaccination in lymphoma should not be abandoned, but several open
theoretical and practical questions need to be answered before a new
generation of trials can be performed.

Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors
Like solid tumours, lymphoid malignancies have developed different
mechanisms to evade the immune system, allowing lymphoma cells to
escape immune surveillance. Cumulating data support the theory that
functions of inhibitory molecules, such as programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)/programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4), lymphocyte-activation gene 3 (LAG-3) or
T cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain 3 (TIM-3), are dysregulated
in lymphoid malignancies.
The expression of PD-L1 varies considerably across different types of
lymphoma, probably due to the diverse mechanisms responsible for the
expression of PD-1 and co-inhibitory molecules. Moreover, while in
solid tumours PD-L1 is highly expressed on cancer cells but minimally
expressed in surrounding normal tissue, in several types of lymphoma a
major component of PD-L1 expression is derived from tumour infiltrating
2.7 Immunotherapies in Lymphoma

221

macrophages, histiocytes or stromal cells in the tumour microenvironment
(TME). For example, FL cells do not express PD-L1, but histiocytes in
the TME strongly express PD-L1. In T cell-rich, histiocyte-rich large B
cell lymphoma (TCHRBCL), the predominant histiocytes adjacent to scattered malignant B cells show a very strong PD-L1 expression. Similarly,
Reed-Sternberg (RS) cells comprise only a small proportion of the overall tumour cellularity and PD-L1-positive cells in classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL); the predominant tissue macrophages show a strong PD-L1
expression. This suggests that both tumour cells and background inflammatory cells in the TME can provide immune escape signals.
There are various mechanisms leading to PD-L1 overexpression in lymphomas. In principle PD-L1 expression can be induced and upregulated
by extrinsic and/or intrinsic signals.
Extrinsic signals: INF-γ secreted by tumour infiltrating lymphocytes
(TILs) leading to upregulation of PD-L1 in the TME. This mechanism
may be responsible for overexpression of PD-L1 on tumour infiltrating
macrophages in lymphomas with cytokine-rich inflammatory TME
(cHL, TCHRBCL).
Intrinsic signals: So far, four mechanisms have been identified:
1. Genetically-driven PD-L1 and PD-L2 expression. Copy number alterations (amplifications or gains) and/or translocations involving 9p24.1/
PD-L1/PD-L2 are associated with PD-L1 overexpression in RS cells in
cHL, primary mediastinal large B cell lymphoma (PMBCL), EpsteinBarr virus (EBV)-negative primary central nervous system lymphoma
(PCNSL), primary testicular lymphoma (PTL) and in a subset of
DLBCL. The amplification of 9p24.1 also induces JAK2 amplification,
which further stimulates PD-L1 expression via the JAK/STAT pathway.
2. EBV infection-driven overexpression of PD-L1 via the JAK/STAT
pathway in cHL, EBV-positive (EBV+) DLBCL, EBV+ immunodeficiency-related DLBCL, EBV+ post-transplant lymphoproliferative
disorder, plasmablastic lymphoma, primary effusion lymphoma and
extranodal NK/T cell lymphoma. Chronic viral infections are known
to be able to abuse the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway to induce immune tolerance (EBV, hepatitis B, C or human immunodeficiency virus [HIV]).

222

Ballová and Ghielmini

3. PD-L1 3′-untranslated region disruption-induced PD-L1 expression
4. Dysregulated JAK/STAT signalling pathway is responsible for
PD-L1 expression in activated B cell-like (ABC) DLBCL, which
more commonly expresses PD-L1 compared with germinal centre B
cell-like (GCB) DLBCL and in anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL).
Results from clinical trials demonstrated that PD-1 blockade is an attractive way to reconstitute the host’s immune function in lymphomas. The
responses to PD-1 blockade vary significantly between different types of
lymphoma, probably due to the various mechanisms responsible for the
expression of PD-1, which highlights the striking biological differences
between different lymphomas. The most promising results have been
reported in patients with relapsed/refractory (R/R) cHL. Based on the positive results from two studies, cHL is the first haematological malignancy
in which an anti-PD-1 antibody, nivolumab, has been approved as a salvage therapy in patients with failure after prior autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) and brentuximab vedotin (BV). Less striking responses
have been observed in patients with DLBCL, FL and some T cell NHL
(T-NHL). Monotherapy with anti-PD-1 inhibitors was disappointing in
patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), highlighting the need
for combinations with other synergistic drugs (Table 1).
It is of great importance to explore biomarkers able to predict responders
to anti-PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors. Methods such as immunohistochemistry for PD-L1/PD-L2 protein tissue expression, chromosome analysis or
fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH) to detect aberrations on 9p24.1/
PD-L1/PD-L2 locus or reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction
(RT-PCR) to detect gene rearrangements involving PD-L1 and PD-L2
could help to discover the best biomarker.
Open questions about ICIs in lymphoma:
n
How to identify patients who are candidates for the treatment (biomarkers)?
n
What is the best agent to combine with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 in individual types of lymphoma?
2.7 Immunotherapies in Lymphoma

223

n

n

Optimal timing of PD-1 blockade when combined with ChT – prior
to, concomitantly or after the cytotoxic treatment?
Long-term toxicity? (when used earlier with curative intention)


Table 1 Checkpoint Clinical Efficacy – Results from Selected Clinical Trials
Study

Condition

ORR

CR

SD

PFS

Nivolumab
(CheckMate 039)
Phase I

23 R/R cHL
31 R/R B-NHL
11 DLBCL
10 FL
23 R/R T-NHL

87%
26%
36%
40%
17%

17%
10%
18%
10%
0%

13%
52%
27%
60%
43%

86% (6 months)

Nivolumab
(CheckMate 205)
Phase II

143 R/R cHL
(arms A, B)

68%

8%–22%

NA

77% (6 months)

Pembrolizumab
(KEYNOTE-013)
Phase I

31 R/R cHL
19 R/R PMBCL

65%
41%

16%
13%

23%
35%

64% (6 months)

Pembrolizumab
(KEYNOTE-087)
Phase II

210 R/R cHL
(arms A, B, C)

65%–74%

22%–29%

12%–17%

NA

Nivolumab + BV
Phase I/II

6 R/R cHL

100%

50%

NA

NA

Nivolumab + ipilimumab + BV
Phase I

8 R/R cHL

100%

62%

NA

NA

Nivolumab + ibrutinib
Phase II

12 R/R or high-risk CLL 66%

0%

NA

NA

Pidilizumab + rituximab
Phase II

29 R/R FL

66%

52%

NA

18.8 months
(median)

Atezolizumab + obinutuzumab
Phase I

23 R/R FL
20 R/R DLBCL

56%
12%

26%
6%

10.2 months

Abbreviations: BV, brentuximab vedotin; B-NHL, B cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma; cHL, classical Hodgkin lymphoma; CLL, chronic
lymphocytic leukaemia; CR, complete remission; DLBCL, diffuse large B cell lymphoma; FL, follicular lymphoma; NA, not available;
ORR, objective response rate; PFS, progression-free survival; PMBCL, primary mediastinal large B cell lymphoma; R/R, relapsed/
refractory; SD, stable disease;T-NHL,T cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma.

Chimeric Antigen Receptor-T cell Therapy
The adoptive transfer of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells demonstrated remarkable success in patients with B cell malignancies, most notably
in patients with R/R B cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (B-ALL),
with up to 90% complete remission rate using CD19 CAR-T cells. Positive
results are also increasingly described in patients with R/R B-NHL and CLL.

224

Ballová and Ghielmini

CAR-T cell therapy constitutes a unique personalised autologous ‘living cell
therapy’ capable of expanding and persisting during the life of the patient.
CD19 CAR-T cells (Figure 1) are directed against the surface protein
CD19, for which expression is restricted to B cells and B cell precursors.
Its consistent expression on the surface of most B cell malignancies and
missing expression on pluripotent stem cells is of great advantage. CD19
(like CD20) is an example of an ideal tumour-associated antigen (TAA)
– highly and homogeneously expressed on tumour cells, but not (or only
weakly) expressed on vital normal tissues. Significant antitumour efficacy of CD19 CAR-T cells in B cell malignancies can serve as a proof of
principle for adoptive T cell therapy (Table 2).
Table 2 CD19 CAR-T Cells Clinical Efficacy – Results from Selected Clinical Trials
Study

Condition

ORR

CR

Comments

82%
41% at
6 months

54%
36% at
6 months

• Median DOR 28%
8.2 months, not
reached for
patients in CR
• Median OS not
reached

13%
43% received
tocilizumab,
27% received
steroids

141 R/R DLBCL 59%
enrolled,
45% at
85 infused
3 months

43%
37% at
3 months

Median DOR not 13%
reached

26%
16% received
tocilizumab,
11% received
steroids

AXI-CEL; KTE-C19 101 R/R
ZUMA-1
aggressive
Phase II
B-NHL

CTL019JULIET
Phase II

Neurotoxicity CRS
grade ≥3
grade ≥3

Abbreviations: B-NHL, B cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma; CAR, chimeric antigen receptor; CR, complete remission; CRS, cytokine-release
syndrome; DLBCL, diffuse large B cell lymphoma; DOR, duration of response; ORR, objective response rate; OS, overall survival; R/R,
relapsed/refractory.

The encouraging results with CD19-directed CAR-T cells led to investigation of CAR-T cells directed to other haematological antigens such as
CD20, CD22, CD30 and CD5.
Factors favouring the efficacy of CAR-T cells in haematological malignancies compared with solid tumours include:
n
Fewer ‘physical barriers’ to efficiently infiltrate the tumour
n
Fewer immunosuppressive factors and barriers preventing CAR-T
cells to reach tumour cells
2.7 Immunotherapies in Lymphoma

225

Figure 1 Mechanisms of action of immunotherapy modalities. Native T cells can recognise
tumour-specific antigens in an MHC-dependent manner.The T cells also require co-stimulation
for activation. Upon antigen recognition, without co-stimulatory signal, or with the stimulation
of inhibitory molecules, such as through the PD‑1/PD‑L1 axis, the T cells can be induced to
anergy or become exhausted. Immune checkpoint inhibitors can block the inhibitory signal of
T cells to avert T cells from anergy. BiTE® antibodies bring T cells and malignant cells into close
proximity through dual antigen binding, and can induce T cell activation without co-stimulatory
signals.T cells can also be engineered to express CARs to recognise cell-surface molecules
independent of MHC. Later-generation CARs have both TCR and co-stimulatory signalling
components, thereby activating the T cells without additional co-stimulatory signal.
From Batlevi CL, Matsuki E, Brentjens RJ,Younes A. Novel immunotherapies in lymphoid malignancies. Nat Rev Clin Oncol
2016; 13:25-40. Reprinted with permission of Massachusetts Medical Society. Copyright ©2016..

Abbreviations: ADC, antibody–drug conjugate; BiTE®, bispecific T cell engager antibody; CAR, chimeric antigen receptor; CTLA‑4,
cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4; mAb, monoclonal antibody; MHC, major histocompatibility complex; PD‑1, programmed cell
death protein 1; PD‑L1, programmed cell death-ligand 1; TCR, T cell receptor.

226

Ballová and Ghielmini

n

n

Homogeneous expression of target antigen within the tumour, even in
disseminated disease
Manageable and not life-threatening on-target, off-tumour toxicity


The major, potentially fatal toxicities of CAR-T cell treatment are a
severe ‘cytokine storm’ associated with the rapid T cell proliferation
and severe neurotoxicity. After the infusion, the CAR-T cells interact
with tumour cells and the patient’s immune system, resulting in a widespread, toxic release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, thus leading to
tumour lysis syndrome (TLS) and cytokine-release syndrome (CRS). It
has been shown that the severity of TLS and CRS correlated with the
tumour burden before CAR-T cell infusion. The pathogenesis of neurological toxicity remains unclear; however, immunological mechanisms
are assumed. Symptoms, which were mostly self-limiting and reversible,
lasting 2–3 days, included aphasia, confusion, delirium, somnolence or
even seizures. A specific long term on-target, off-tumour toxicity induced
by CD19 CAR-T cells is B cell aplasia, leading to severe hypogammaglobulinaemia. Sustained B cell aplasia is a marker of continued CD19
CAR-T cell persistence and is observed in long-term responders. In all
trials, the anti-tumour effect correlated with the persistence and proliferation of CAR-T cells in the peripheral blood of patients.
Tumour antigen escape, resulting in CD19-negative relapse, has emerged
as a major challenge for long-term disease control after CD19 CAR-T
cell therapy. This phenomenon was most commonly observed in approximately 14% of B-ALL responders and may be overcome by dual-targeted CAR-T cells.

Bispecific Antibodies
Conventional mAbs do not directly recruit T cells into the tumour. In contrast, synthetic bispecific antibodies are designed to recruit polyclonal T
cells into the tumour and harness their ability to kill tumour cells. Blinatumomab is a first-in-class T cell-engaging bispecific antibody, known
as a bispecific T cell engager. It has two linked single-chain variable
segments, one targeting CD3 on T cells and the other directed against
CD19 (Figure 1). This bispecific CD19/CD3 construct is designed to
2.7 Immunotherapies in Lymphoma

227

redirect previously unstimulated polyclonal T cells toward malignant
CD19-expressing cells and to induce their destruction.
Blinatumomab demonstrated impressive single-agent activity in R/R
B-ALL, for which it was approved. Current data suggest that the
responses are generally short-lived and should ideally be followed by
allogeneic transplantation. Phase I and II trials with blinatumomab in
patients with R/R B-NHL have demonstrated activity. The objective
response rate (ORR) across all subtypes was 69% with 37% complete
remissions. The highest activity was observed in patients with FL with
ORR 80% and 40% complete remissions. In addition to haematological
toxicity, two-thirds of patients suffered from neurological side effects
similar to CAR-T cell-associated neurotoxicity. However, patients with
R/R DLBCL have poor outcome, and in responding patients blinatumomab may represent a bridging therapy to a potentially curative autologous or allogeneic transplantation.
In the future, combination with immunomodulatory drugs may
theoretically increase the T cell activation and proliferation induced by
blinatumomab. Combination with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors may be the
way to restore the function of antigen-exhausted TILs and increase the
blinatumomab-induced mobilisation and activation of T cells.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Ballova has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Professor Ghielmini has reported receiving honoraria from Roche,
Celgene, Mundipharma, Janssen, Abbvie, Bayer and Gilead.

Further Reading
Hilchey SP, Hyrien O, Mosmann TR, et al. Rituximab immunotherapy results
in the induction of a lymphoma idiotype-specific T-cell response in patients
with follicular lymphoma: support for a “vaccinal effect” of rituximab. Blood
2009; 113:3809–3812.
Jelinek T, Mihalyova J, Kascak M, et al. PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors in haematological malignancies: update 2017. Immunology 2017; 152:357–371.
Maus MV, Levine BL. Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy for the community oncologist. Oncologist 2016; 21:608–617.

228

Ballová and Ghielmini

Merli M, Carli G, Arcaini L, Visco C. Antiviral therapy of hepatitis C as curative treatment of indolent B-cell lymphoma. World J Gastroenterol 2016;
22:8447–8458.
Ok CY, Young KH. Checkpoint inhibitors in hematological malignancies.
J Hematol Oncol 2017; 10:103.
Palomba ML. Active immunotherapy: current state of the art in vaccine
approaches for NHL. Curr Oncol Rep 2012; 5:433–440.
Sanders A, Stewart DA. Targeting non-Hodgkin lymphoma with blinatumomab.
Expert Opin Biol Ther 2017; 17:1013–1017.
Singh V, Gupta D, Almasan A. Development of novel anti-Cd20 monoclonal antibodies and modulation in Cd20 Levels on cell surface: Looking to improve
immunotherapy response. J Cancer Sci Ther 2015; 7:347–358.
Ye B, Stary CM, Gao Q, et al. Genetically modified T-cell-based adoptive immunotherapy in hematological malignancies. J Immunol Res 2017; 5210459.
Zhang L, Tai YT, Ho MZG, et al. Interferon-alpha-based immunotherapies in the
treatment of B cell-derived hematologic neoplasms in today’s treat-to-target
era. Exp Hematol Oncol 2017; 6:20.

2.7 Immunotherapies in Lymphoma

229

2.8 Gynaecological Malignancies
J. Stewart1
S. Banerjee1
D. Lorusso2
E. Tripodi2
Gynaecology Unit, The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK
Gynecologic Oncology Unit, Fondazione IRCCS, Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori,
Milan, Italy

1

2

The Role of Immunotherapy in Ovarian Cancer
There are approximately 65 000 new cases of ovarian cancer per year in
Europe, with 43 000 deaths, making ovarian cancer the fourth highest
cause of cancer death in women. The majority of patients are diagnosed at
advanced stages. In this setting, there is a great unmet need as the 5-year survival rate for women diagnosed with stage III and IV disease remains 25%
despite treatment strategies that involve both surgery and chemotherapy
(ChT). Immunotherapy therefore offers a novel potential treatment strategy,
either alone or in combination with other systemic anti-cancer therapy.
The Immune Microenvironment in Ovarian Cancer
The importance of an anti-tumour immune response in epithelial ovarian
cancer (EOC) was highlighted when Zhang et al (2003) identified that the
presence of tumour infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) was associated with
a significant improvement in progression-free survival (PFS) and overall
survival (OS). Here, CD3+ TILs were identified within tumour islets in
54.8% of ovarian cancer specimens, and their presence was associated
with an increase in the 5-year survival rate from 4.5% to 38.0%. However, despite the survival advantage associated with TILs, their role within
the tumour microenvironment remains a subject of investigation. While
tumour infiltrating CD8+ lymphocytes have emerged as an independ-

230

ent prognostic factor in EOC, with their presence being associated with
increased OS and PFS, lymphocytes located in the stroma do not appear to
impact survival. Clinical outcome is also associated with the ratio of effector T cells (Teff) to regulatory T cells (Tregs) within EOC tumours, and the
presence and composition of immune infiltrates vary between histological subtypes. Immune infiltrates are most commonly seen in high-grade
serous ovarian cancer versus other EOC histological subtypes (e.g. endometroid, clear cell), and the infiltrates seen in the former are more likely to
be associated with a favourable prognosis. It has therefore been proposed
that high-grade serous ovarian cancer has a more accessible immunophenotype when compared with the other subtypes of EOC.
As in other tumour types, programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression on tumour cells has been investigated as both a prognostic and
predictive biomarker in ovarian cancer. Levels of expression vary
between EOC histological subtypes, with high levels most commonly
being found in high-grade serous ovarian cancer. PD-L1 appears to be
expressed predominantly on tumour-associated macrophages rather than
on the tumour cells themselves, although the exact role that these cells
play is unclear. High levels of PD-L1 expression are associated with a
less favourable prognosis, with a median OS of 6.48 years (±0.62) versus
9.56 years (±0.82) for tumours exhibiting low levels of expression. This
association is independent of other poor prognostic factors such as distant metastases and residual tumour after surgery. Furthermore, PD-L1
levels are inversely correlated with the presence of tumour infiltrating
CD8+ T lymphocytes, suggesting that aberrant signalling through this
pathway may dampen the anti-tumour immune response in ovarian cancer. PD-L1 blockade in murine models of ovarian cancer also appears to
inhibit the growth of tumour xenografts, further raising the prospect that
anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)/PD-L1 therapies may offer
a potential treatment strategy in ovarian cancer.
Immunotherapy Trials
Anti-PD-1-directed therapy
Both nivolumab and pembrolizumab are monoclonal antibodies (mAbs)
targeted against PD-1. The activity of nivolumab in ovarian cancer was
2.8 Gynaecological Malignancies

231

tested in a phase II trial of 20 Japanese women with platinum-resistant
disease. Patients were randomised to receive nivolumab at a dose of
1 mg/kg or 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks for 6 cycles (4 doses per cycle) or until
progression. The best overall response observed was 15% with a median
PFS of 3 months (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.7–3.9) and median
OS of 20 months (95% CI: 7.0–not reached). Two patients within the
3 mg/kg group experienced a durable complete radiological response,
one of whom had clear cell carcinoma of the ovary.
KEYNOTE-028 (NCT02054806) was a non-randomised, phase Ib trial
of pembrolizumab in advanced solid tumours. The ovarian cancer cohort
consisted of 26 patients who had progressed following prior treatment,
with either PD-L1 expression >1% in the tumour cells or PD-L1-positive (PD-L1+) staining in the stroma. Patients received pembrolizumab
10 mg/kg every 2 weeks for 2 years or until disease progression. The
objective response rate (ORR) was 11.5%, with one patient experiencing
a complete response and two further patients a partial response (PR).
Microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) has been reported in approximately 10% of unselected EOC cases, but, as with many other ‘Lynch
syndrome’ malignancies, most of these present at an early stage and are
cured by surgery. So, although pembrolizumab received Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) approval for the treatment of MSI-H tumours that
have progressed following prior treatment with no satisfactory alternative treatment options, it is unlikely that many ovarian cancer patients
will be able to access immunotherapy through this route.
Anti-cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen 4-directed therapy
Ipilimumab is a mAb which targets cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4
(CTLA-4) and has been tested in a phase II trial of 40 women with platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer. Here, subjects received an induction phase
consisting of ipilimumab 10 mg/kg every 3 weeks for 4 doses, followed
by a maintenance phase of ipilimumab 10 mg/kg every 12 weeks. Treatment continued until toxicity or disease progression. Although an ORR
of 10.3% was reported, grade ≥3 toxicity was experienced by 50% of
participants, and only two patients completed the induction phase.

232

Stewart et al.

Since then, it has been demonstrated that lower doses have sufficient
efficacy in other tumour types and are associated with less toxicity.
Future planned studies at different doses will help define the role of antiCTLA-4 therapies in ovarian cancer.
Anti-PD-L1-directed therapy
The mAbs avelumab and durvalumab bind PD-L1, thereby preventing
its interaction with PD-1. Avelumab 10 mg/kg was administered every
2 weeks to 124 patients with refractory or recurrent ovarian cancer until
progression, unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal of consent. A PR was
observed in 12 patients and stable disease was seen in five, with an ORR
of 9.7% (95% CI: 5.1–16.3) for the entire cohort. When patients were
stratified using a threshold of ≥1% PD-L1 expression, the ORR was
12.3% (95% CI: 5.1–23.7) in the PD-L1+ cohort and 5.9% (95% CI:
0.1–28.7) in the PD-L1-negative (PD-L1-) group.
In summary, the ORR seen in the nivolumab, pembrolizumab and avelumab trials reported in ovarian cancer are similar, ranging from 10% to
15%. Of the studies discussed, only the nivolumab and avelumab studies
have reported results by histological subtypes. So far, durable responses
have been noted in patients with clear cell histology, a subtype which has
limited effective treatment options.
Future Developments for Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors
The combination of the immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) ipilimumab
and nivolumab has proven to be more effective compared with monotherapy in patients with untreated malignant melanoma, albeit with an
increased incidence of grade 3/4 toxicity. The NRG oncology study GY003
(NCT02498600) is currently investigating the potential benefit of combining these two ICIs in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer, but using
ipilimumab at the lowest dose of 1 mg/kg every 21 days, due to the high
incidence of ≥ grade 3 toxicity observed when higher doses were used.
ICIs have also entered clinical trials in combination with ChT. For example,
JAVELIN Ovarian 200 (NCT02580058) is a randomised, phase III clinical
trial that evaluates the activity of the addition of avelumab to pegylated
2.8 Gynaecological Malignancies

233

liposomal doxorubicin in platinum-resistant EOC. Pembrolizumab in
combination with weekly paclitaxel is being explored in a phase II study of
recurrent EOC (NCT02440425). The ATALANTE study (NCT02891824)
is a randomised placebo-controlled phase III trial that investigates the
potential benefit of adding the PD-L1 inhibitor atezolizumab to carboplatin
and bevacizumab in the context of platinum-sensitive relapse. ICIs have
also reached first-line ovarian cancer trials in combination with carboplatin
and paclitaxel as well as maintenance therapy, e.g. avelumab (JAVELIN
Ovarian 100, NCT02718417) and pembrolizumab (NCT02520154).
The principal rationale for combining targeted agents with ICIs includes
enhanced neoantigen presentation following targeted treatment. This
has the potential to augment the anti-tumour response. Studies include
durvalumab in combination with the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitor cediranib and the poly(adenosine diphosphate
ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor olaparib (NCT02734004), and
nivolumab ± ipilimumab with rucaparib versus rucaparib alone for
patients whose tumours are loss of heterozygosity-high (CeNtuRIOn,
ISRCTN10490346). Several phase III trials of ICIs combined with
PARP inhibitors and bevacizumab in the first-line treatment of ovarian
cancer are also planned.
Beyond ICIs
While most existing trial data regarding the role of immunotherapy in
the treatment of ovarian cancer pertain to ICIs, other strategies have
also been tested, including vaccines and the adoptive transfer of T cells
expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs). Both abagovomab and
oregovomab are cancer vaccines. Abagovomab consists of a variable
epitope which resembles cancer antigen 125 (CA125) and oregovomab
is a murine mAb with an affinity for CA125. Both have been the subject
of randomised placebo-controlled phase III trials as maintenance therapy
following primary ChT; abagovomab was not associated with improved
relapse-free survival (RFS) or OS, and oregovomab did not increase
time to relapse (TTR). The results of the TRIOC (NCT01556841)
trial, a placebo-controlled trial of TroVax, a vaccine directed against
the 5T4 tumour-associated antigen, in women with asymptomatic

234

Stewart et al.

CA125 relapsed ovarian cancer, are awaited. CAR therapy is a promising treatment modality in multiple tumour types and is currently at an
early stage of development in ovarian cancer. Early phase trials of this
approach include targeting NY-ESO-1 (NCT01567891) and mesothelin
(NCT02159716; NCT01583686).

The Role of Immunotherapy in Cervical Cancer
Squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix (SCCC) is the second most commonly diagnosed cancer among women, with more than 58 000 new
cases per year, and the third leading cause of cancer death in less developed countries. Worldwide spread of Pap (Papanicolaou) smear screening has increased the diagnosis rate of precancerous lesions and earlystage tumours, which has dramatically reduced the incidence of advanced
cervical cancer presentations in western countries, where there has been
significant uptake among the population. It is hoped that the introduction of specific vaccines will decrease the incidence of any human
papillomavirus (HPV) 16/18-associated cervical cancers in the future.
It is, however, important to understand that the HPV vaccines do not
cover all strains of HPV, just the current most common.
Immune Response and SCCC
It is estimated that 75%–80% of women are infected by HPV during their
lifetime, but most women respond with an appropriate immune response.
However, a process known as immuno-editing allows HPV-infected cells
to overcome immune-surveillance in some women, permitting selection
of cancer clones with increased resistance to immune detection and elimination and resulting in tumour growth. In SCCC, immunotherapy could
play an important role, since restoring the immune response against cancer cells could stop tumour growth and inhibit progression of precancerous alterations and initial tumours.
The activation of the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway is possibly involved in
SCCC and other HPV-related squamous cell cancers. Many authors have
demonstrated expression of PD-1/PD-L1 in about 54%–67% of SCCC,
which is correlated with progression of precancerous lesions to invasive
cancer, tumour grade and prognosis.
2.8 Gynaecological Malignancies

235

Vaccines
The existing vaccines against HPV cannot eliminate pre-existing HPV
infections, but are effective in preventing infection by types 16, 18, 6
and 11. There is also a suggestion that they can be used to boost existing
weak immune responses. There is a strong interest in discovering further
therapeutic vaccines with the aim of stimulating the immune system,
eliminating infections and stopping transformation processes; they consist of vital vectors, but also peptides, nucleic acids or dendritic cells
(DCs).
ADXS11-001 is a biologically engineered, live-attenuated Listeria
monocytogenes (LM) vaccine. These vectors are internalised by antigenpresenting cells, and once inside they escape the lysosome, releasing in
the cytosol a highly immunogenic fusion protein, which promotes the
differentiation of cytotoxic T-lymphocytes and tumour infiltration.
GOG/NRG-0265 is an ongoing study in patients with metastatic or
locally advanced HPV-related SCCC. Twenty-six patients were treated
with three doses of ADXS11-001, 1 × 109 colony forming units (CFUs),
monthly: 91% of patients reported grade 1–2 toxicities (nausea, vomiting,
chills, fatigue and fever). Mean PFS was 3.1 months, mean survival was
7.7 months and 12-month survival was 38.5%. An Indian phase II trial,
involving 110 patients with recurrent or persistent SCCC randomised to
receive three or four doses of ADXS11-001 with cisplatin-based ChT,
showed a response rate of 11% and a disease control rate of 41%, with a
manageable safety profile. A phase III study, testing ADXS11-001 plus
chemoradiotherapy (CRT) in locally advanced high-risk SCCC, is currently ongoing (NCT02853604).
The results of a trial which included late-stage HPV16+ SCCC was presented at the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) 2017 meeting. Three HPV16 vaccine doses were given 2 weeks after the second,
third and fourth cycle of ChT. Robust T cell responses were observed
and remained sustained until at least 30 days after the sixth cycle. A
significant positive correlation was observed between the strength of the
vaccine-induced immune response and OS (NCT02128126).

236

Stewart et al.

Anti-PD-1/PD-L1-directed Therapy
The KEYNOTE-028 SCCC cohort demonstrated a 6-month PFS rate of
13%, 6-month OS rate of 66.7% and ORR of 12.5% in 24 advanced
SCCC patients treated with pembrolizumab 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks. No
grade 4–5 adverse events (AEs) occurred and only two patients discontinued pembrolizumab due to a grade 3 AE (colitis and Guillain-Barré
syndrome).
Preliminary results of the phase II study KEYNOTE-158 were presented
at ASCO 2017. Patients with recurrent/advanced SCCC were treated
with pembrolizumab at a flat dose of 200 mg every 3 weeks. Among the
first 47 patients, ORR was 17%. Among the 15 patients who had ≥27
weeks of follow-up, ORR was 27%.
A randomised phase II open-label multicentre study, evaluating standard
CRT plus pembrolizumab, is ongoing. Primary outcomes are safety and
efficacy (NCT02635360).
Hollebecque et al presented the results of a phase I/II study evaluating
nivolumab 240 mg every 2 weeks in HPV-related squamous vulvar, vaginal and cervical tumours at ASCO 2017. SCCC patients experienced a
good toxicity profile and demonstrated promising clinical activity (ORR:
26.3%; PFS: 5.5 months). Nivolumab is currently under investigation in a
phase II trial involving metastatic, recurrent or persistent SCCC patients
(NCT02257528) in combination with lirilumab (anti-killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor [KIR] antibody) and ipilimumab (anti-CTLA-4
antibody) in patients with advanced solid tumours (NCT01714739).
Anti-CTLA-4-directed Therapy
Mayadev et al reported the safety, tolerability and efficacy of a Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) phase I study evaluating escalating ipilimumab doses ranging from 3 to 10 mg/kg in combination with definitive
CRT in node-positive SCCC at ASCO 2017. The data suggest that immunotherapy has potential activity (the secondary endpoint of 1-year disease-free survival [DFS] was 74%) and a good toxicity profile: the most
common AEs were grade 1–2 diarrhoea, rash and endocrinopathies. The
incidence of acute grade 3 toxicity was 16%, which resolved without
2.8 Gynaecological Malignancies

237

consequences. With a median follow-up of 12 months, there were no
major late toxicities reported (NCT01693783). A phase II study aiming
to evaluate the safety and efficacy of single-agent ipilimumab in patients
with metastatic or recurrent SCCC is ongoing. At present no studies
evaluating ipilimumab in combination with other therapies are ongoing.
Adoptive TILs Therapy
In 2015, Stevanović et al published their experience in nine metastatic
patients with SCCC, previously treated with platinum-based ChT and
CRT, and reported a 33% ORR after a single infusion of TILs and interleukin-2 (IL-2).

The Role of Immunotherapy in Endometrial Cancer
Endometrial cancer (EC) is the most common gynaecological cancer
in developed countries. In Europe, the number of new cases was around
100 000 in 2012. The immunological landscape in endometrial tissue
is characterised by a balance between the task of defending against
infections and the need to welcome an allogeneic foetus. Sex hormones
directly guide this state with cyclic modifications: macrophages, neutrophils and natural killer (NK) cells are numerous during menstruation,
while B and T cells increase during the follicular phase and lose their
cytotoxicity during the luteal phase to facilitate implantation.
Immune Microenvironment and EC
Data regarding the prognostic value of TILs are controversial: some
authors showed that elevated tumour infiltration is associated with lowgrade endometrial lesions, while others support the opposite. A study
focusing on the ratio of CD8+ Teff /CD4+ Treg cells confirmed that a high
ratio is associated with more favourable outcomes in type I ECs.
Data on tumour-associated macrophages are more consistent: their
presence was associated with aggressive features (angiogenic profile,
lymphovascular and myometrial invasion and node metastasis) in all
reported studies.
The expression of PD-L1 in EC has been estimated between 67% and

238

Stewart et al.

100% on tumour cells. Recently, a new molecular classification of EC
identified four genomic groups:
1. Polymerase E (POLE) ultramutated
2. MSI hypermutated
3. Copy number low
4. Copy number high
Howitt et al demonstrated that ultramutated POLE and hypermutated
MSI are characterised by high levels of neoantigens and TILs, which is
counterbalanced by over-expression of PD-1/PD-L1. These subgroups
are potential candidates for immunotherapy.
Anti-PD-1/PD-L1-directed Therapy
In the KEYNOTE-028 study, 24 locally advanced or metastatic EC
patients progressing after platinum-based ChT received pembrolizumab
10 mg/kg every 2 weeks. The majority of patients had endometrioid adenocarcinoma (n=17; 70.8%), while high-grade serous carcinoma, carcino-sarcoma and mixed other histotypes were 12.5%, 8.3% and 4.2%,
respectively. Nineteen patients had tumours evaluable for MSI status; of
these, one patient (5.3%) had MSI-high status and 18 patients (94.7%)
had non-MSI-high status. The single patient classified as MSI-high had
progressive disease as best response and, among the patients achieving
PRs, one patient had non-MSI-high status but was found to present a
POLE mutation.
After 69.9 weeks of median follow-up, ORR was 13%, and 6-month
PFS and OS rates were 19.9% and 68.8%, respectively. The authors
concluded that pembrolizumab had a good preliminary tumour activity
and an acceptable toxicity profile: AEs occurred in 54.2% of patients
(pruritus, asthenia, fatigue, pyrexia and decreased appetite); only three
patients experienced grade 3 AEs and no patients died or discontinued
pembrolizumab due to an AE.
At ASCO 2017, Makker et al presented the results of a multicentre phase
Ib-II trial: 23 patients with metastatic EC were enrolled and received oral
lenvatinib (a multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor) 20 mg/day plus
2.8 Gynaecological Malignancies

239

pembrolizumab 200 mg intravenously every 3 weeks. The reported ORR
was 48% and toxicities were generally manageable, with no grade 3–5
toxicities reported. The most common AEs were hypertension, fatigue,
arthralgia, diarrhoea and nausea. The results of a phase II study with
pembrolizumab in tumours with mismatch repair deficiency (dMMR)
have recently been reported. In the cohort of nine patients with solid
tumours other than colorectal cancer (two were EC), the ORR and the
PFS rate were 71% and 67%, respectively.
Currently, both pembrolizumab and avelumab are under investigation in
patients with EC:
n
In the metastatic setting, given in combination with carboplatin-paclitaxel (NCT02549209; EudraCT: 2016–004403–31)
n
In the first-line treatment of patients with potentially resectable
advanced disease (NCT02630823)
n
In recurrent/persistent disease in selected EC populations (POLE
mutation/hypermutation or dMMR) (NCT02899793; NCT02912572)
A multicentre phase II trial is ongoing in advanced/recurrent EC with
single-agent durvalumab 1500 mg monthly (ACTRN12617000106336).
At ASCO 2017, Fleming et al reported the results of a trial with atezolizumab in advanced/recurrent EC: the ORR was 13% and the safety
profile was acceptable; clinical benefit appeared to be related to higher
PD-L1 expression. Atezolizumab is currently being tested in an ongoing
phase Ib study with advanced tumours, including EC, in combination
with carboplatin–cyclophosphamide (NCT02914470).
Finally, a phase I trial evaluating the combination of nivolumab with
ipilimumab (anti-CTLA-4) in different cohorts of rare tumours, including EC, is ongoing (NCT02834013).
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Stewart has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Banerjee has reported no potential conflicts of interest; she has participated as an investigator in immunotherapy trials (Merck Sharp &
Dohme, Roche, Tesaro and Pfizer).

240

Stewart et al.

Dr Lorusso has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Tripodi has reported no potential conflicts of interest.

Further Reading
de Jong RA, Leffers N, Boezen HM, et al. Presence of tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes is an independent prognostic factor in type I and II endometrial
cancer. Gynecol Oncol 2009; 114:105–110.
Disis ML, Patel MR, Pant S, et al. Avelumab (MSB0010718C; anti-PD-L1) in
patients with recurrent/refractory ovarian cancer from the JAVELIN Solid
Tumor phase Ib trial: Safety and clinical activity. J Clin Oncol 2016; 34(15_
Suppl):abstr. 5533.
Fleming GF, Emens LA, Eder JP, et al. Clinical activity, safety and biomarker
results from a phase Ia study of atezolizumab (atezo) in advanced/recurrent
endometrial cancer (rEC). J Clin Oncol 2017; 35, no. 15_suppl: 5585–5585.
Hamanishi J, Mandai M, Ikeda T, et al. Safety and antitumor activity of antiPD-1 antibody, nivolumab, in patients with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. J Clin Oncol 2015; 33:4015–4022.
Heeren AM, Punt S, Bleeker MC, et al. Prognostic effect of different PD-L1
expression patterns in squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma of the
cervix. Mod Pathol 2016; 29:753–763.
Herzog TJ, Arguello D, Reddy SK, Gatalica Z. PD-1, PD-L1 expression in 1599
gynecological cancers – implications for immunotherapy. Gynecol Oncol
2015; 137(Suppl 1):204–205.
Hollebecque A, Meyer T, Moore KN, et al. An open-label, multicohort, phase I/
II study of nivolumab in patients with virus-associated tumors (CheckMate
358): Efficacy and safety in recurrent or metastatic (R/M) cervical, vaginal,
and vulvar cancers. J Clin Oncol 2017; 35, no. 15_suppl:5504–5504.
Howitt BE, Shukla SA, Sholl LM, et al. Association of polymerase e-mutated
and microsatellite-instable endometrial cancers with neoantigen load, number of tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes, and expression of PD-1 and PD-L1.
JAMA Oncol 2015; 1:1319–1323.
Howitt BE, Sun HH, Roemer MG, et al. Genetic basis for PD-L1 expression
in squamous cell carcinomas of the cervix and vulva. JAMA Oncol 2016;
2:518–522.
Huh WK, Dizon DS, Powell MA, et al. ADXS11-001 immunotherapy in squamous or non-squamous persistent/recurrent metastatic cervical cancer:
results from stage I of the phase II GOG/NRG0265 study. J Clin Oncol 2016;
34(15_Suppl):abstr. 5516.

2.8 Gynaecological Malignancies

241

Kübler K, Ayub TH, Weber SK, et al. Prognostic significance of tumour-associated macrophages in endometrial adenocarcinoma. Gynecol Oncol 2014;
135:176–183.
Lee SJ, Yang A, Wu TC, Hung CF. Immunotherapy for human papillomavirusassociated disease and cervical cancer: review of clinical and translational
research. J Gynecol Oncol 2016; 27:e51.
Liao JB. Immunotherapy for gynecologic cancers. Gynecol Oncol 2016; 142:3–5.
Makker V, Rasco DW, Dutcus CE, et al. A phase Ib/II trial of lenvatinib (LEN)
plus pembrolizumab (Pembro) in patients (Pts) with endometrial carcinoma.
J Clin Oncol 2017; 35, no. 15_suppl:5598–5598.
Stevanović S, Draper LM, Langhan MM, et al. Complete regression of metastatic cervical cancer after treatment with human papillomavirus-targeted
tumor-infiltrating T cells. J Clin Oncol 2015; 33:1543-1550.
Vanderstraeten A, Luyten C, Verbist G, et al. Mapping the immunosuppressive
environment in uterine tumors: implications for immunotherapy. Cancer
Immunol Immunother 2014; 63:545–557.
Vanderstraeten A, Tuyaerts S, Amant F. The immune system in the normal endometrium and implications for endometrial cancer development. J Reprod
Immunol 2015; 109:7–16.
Varga A, Piha-Paul SA, Ott PA, et al. Antitumor activity and safety of pembrolizumab in patients (pts) with PD-L1 positive advanced ovarian cancer: Interim
results from a phase Ib study. J Clin Oncol 2015; 33(15_Suppl):abstr. 5510.
Vermeij R, de Bock GH, Leffers N, et al. Tumor-infiltrating cytotoxic T lymphocytes as independent prognostic factor in epithelial ovarian cancer with
Wilms tumor protein 1 overexpression. J Immunother 2011; 34:516–523.
Webb JR, Milne K, Kroeger DR, Nelson BH. PD-L1 expression is associated
with tumor-infiltrating T cells and favorable prognosis in high-grade serous
ovarian cancer. Gynecol Oncol 2016; 141:293–302.
Zhang L, Conejo-Garcia JR, Katsaros D, et al. Intratumoral T cells, recurrence,
and survival in epithelial ovarian cancer. N Engl J Med 2003; 348:203–213.

242

Stewart et al.

Section 3:
Implications for
clinical practice

3

3.1 Management of Adverse
Events Related to Immune
Checkpoint Blockade
C. Boutros1
F. Carbonnel 2,3
C. Robert 1, 3, 4
Department of Medicine, Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France
AP-HP, Department of Gastroenterology, University Hospital of Bicêtre, Paris
Sud University, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France
3
Paris Sud University, Le Kremlin Bicêtre, France
4
INSERM Unit U981, Villejuif, France
1

2

Definition
The blockade of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)/programmed death-ligand 1 (PDL1) is associated with a unique spectrum of immune-related adverse
events (irAEs) related to T cell activation (Haanen et al, 2017). CTLA-4
and PD-1 regulate immune responses at different levels (Boutros et al,
2016). Their blockade may affect any organ or tissue, leading sometimes
to severe, and even fatal, issues. The focus of this review is to describe
the adverse event (AE) profile of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs)
based on their mechanisms of action, and to provide guidelines for physicians to safely implement the use of these agents in routine practice.

Processes Involved
CTLA-4 Pathway
CTLA-4 is expressed on T cells, both on CD4 and CD8 effector T cells,
as well as on CD4 regulatory T cells (Tregs). It regulates T cell activation at

245

early stages in the lymph nodes. There is accumulating evidence that the
currently available anti-CTLA-4 antibodies also function by depleting Tregs
from the tumour microenvironment (TME). CTLA-4 plays a key role in
the development of immune tolerance at early stages. Blockade of CTLA-4
using the antibody ipilimumab results in a large and non-specific activation
of the immune system, leading to a wide spectrum of irAEs. IrAEs may
occur weeks or even months after the initiation of ipilimumab.
PD-1 Pathway
PD-1 regulates T cell activity in the peripheral tissues and the TME (Boutros
et al, 2016). The blockade of PD-1 in the TME and the tissues, using pembrolizumab or nivolumab, induces a spectrum of irAEs which is somewhat
distinct from that observed with CTLA-4 blocking, and with a lower rate of
grade 3–4 irAEs (around 15% versus 25%).

Global Management
Education and communication are of paramount importance to successfully manage patients treated with ICIs, because this new treatment
approach has a mechanism of action different from that of chemotherapies or targeted therapies. Referral to an expert and/or specialist (gastroenterologist, hepatologist, endocrinologist, neurologist or dermatologist)
for management of specific AEs should also be considered in collaboration with the treating physician.
There are several published algorithms on the treatment of irAEs (Haanen
et al, 2017). Differential diagnoses such as infection should be ruled out,
particularly in patients with enterocolitis, hepatitis and pneumonitis. Grade
1 irAEs do not usually require ICI interruption, and symptomatic treatment should be prescribed. For grade 2 AEs, the treatment is withheld until
symptoms return to grade 0 or 1, and oral systemic therapy is required. If
grade 2 AEs persist, or for grade 3 irAEs, high-dose (intravenous) steroids
are prescribed and, in most cases, the treatment with ICIs is permanently
stopped. If irAEs are refractory to high-dose steroids, alternative immunesuppressive treatments should be used. These vary according to the target
organ and the hypothesised underlying mechanisms: anti-tumour necrosis
factor (TNF) for severe enterocolitis, mycophenolate mofetil for severe

246

Boutros et al.

hepatitis and intravenous immunoglobulin for antibody-mediated autoimmune diseases. In life-threatening conditions, anti-thymocyte globulin
may be used; however, there are no evidence-based data in this setting and,
therefore, no standardised management.

Clinical Results
IrAEs attributed to CTLA-4 and/or PD-1 blockade may affect various
organs or tissues, with higher prevalence for the skin, gastrointestinal
tract and endocrine system.
IrAEs attributed to CTLA-4 blockade occur in 60%–85% of patients
treated with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg (Haanen et al, 2017; Boutros et al,
2016), being of grade 3–4 in 23% of patients. Treatment-related deaths
have been reported in approximately 2% of patients, due to perforation
of the colon, liver failure, septic shock with multiorgan dysfunction and
capillary leak syndrome. However, many of these deaths were reported
in the early years of ipilimumab development, at a time when awareness
and management of toxicity was less well established than it is now.
The anti-PD-1 antibodies appear to cause a distinct spectrum of irAEs.
Pembrolizumab 10 mg/kg every 2 or 3 weeks was compared with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg in advanced melanoma in a phase III study (KEYNOTE-006) (Robert et al, 2015). AEs of any grade occurred in 72%–
79% of patients treated with pembrolizumab, and in 73% of patients
treated with ipilimumab. The rates of AEs of grade 3–4 were lower with
pembrolizumab (10%–13%) than with ipilimumab (20%). Permanent
treatment discontinuation related to the study drug was lower with pembrolizumab (4%–7%) than with ipilimumab (9%).
Similarly, nivolumab showed a favourable safety profile. In a pooled
analysis of four studies, 576 patients with advanced melanoma received
nivolumab 3 mg/kg (Weber et al, 2017). Treatment-related AEs of any
grade occurred in 71% of patients, among which 10% were grade 3–4.
No drug-related death was reported.
The combination of anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-1 antibodies is associated
with a higher incidence and a larger spectrum of AEs, due to the mecha3.1 Management of Adverse Events Related to Immune Checkpoint Blockade

247

nisms of action of these two drugs that act at different levels of immune
activation and on distinct lymphocyte subtypes. Most of the AEs occurred
within the induction phase (the first 3 months of treatment). In the phase
III study CheckMate 067, the incidence of AEs was higher in the combination group compared with monotherapy (Wolchok et al, 2017). AEs of
any grade occurred in 86%, 96% and 86% of patients in the nivolumab,
nivolumab plus ipilimumab and ipilimumab groups, respectively. Grade
3 or 4 AEs were highest in the combination group (59% versus 21% and
28% with monotherapies). However, grade 3 or 4 AEs generally resolved
with immuno-modulatory treatments (Wolchok et al, 2017).
Skin Toxicity
Skin irAEs occur in 43%–45% of patients treated with ipilimumab, and
in 34% of patients treated with nivolumab or pembrolizumab (Haanen et
al, 2017; Boutros et al, 2016; Hua et al, 2016). The most frequent skin
irAEs are primarily of grade 1 or 2 and include pruritus, rash, erythema
and vitiligo (Haanen et al, 2017; Boutros et al, 2016). Rash primarily
affects the trunk and extremities and may be predominant around naevi,
suggesting an inflammatory reaction against melanocytes (Boutros et
al, 2016; Wolchok et al, 2017). Histologically, a perivascular lymphocytic (CD4+ and CD8+ T cells) and eosinophilic infiltrate extending into
the superficial dermis and up into the epidermis may be observed (Hua
et al, 2016). Skin irAEs are generally managed symptomatically with
emollients, antihistamines and topical glucocorticosteroids. They generally do not require dose skipping or treatment discontinuation. Grade
3 rashes require dose skipping until improvement to grade 1 and treatment with oral prednisone 0.5 to 1 mg/kg/day. Vitiligo is more frequently
described in patients with melanoma (where it seems to be associated
with clinical responses) than with other cancers, suggesting that there is
recognition of normal melanocyte-associated antigens when the immune
system reacts against malignant melanocytes (Hua et al, 2016).
Rarely, life-threatening Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal
necrolysis may occur with histologically severe leukocytoclastic vasculitis and necrosis of keratinocytes (Lacouture et al, 2014), requiring
permanent treatment discontinuation, urgent hospitalisation in a derma-

248

Boutros et al.

tology unit and initiation of intravenous methylprednisolone 1–2 mg/kg/
day. Tapering should be over no less than 4 weeks.
Rare skin and mucosa toxicities, generally of grade 1 or 2, have been
documented with ICIs: alopecia, dry mouth and skin, eczema, lichenoid
skin reactions, hair repigmentation, mucosal inflammation and photosensitivity (Boutros et al, 2016).
Gastrointestinal Toxicity
Diarrhoea and colitis are more frequent in patients treated with ipilimumab than in those receiving nivolumab or pembrolizumab. When
combined, ipilimumab and nivolumab induce the highest incidence of
toxicities (Boutros et al, 2016).
Enterocolitis due to ipilimumab
Diarrhoea occurs in 33% and colitis in 8%–22% of patients treated with
ipilimumab (Haanen et al, 2017; Boutros et al, 2016). Diarrhoea is generally watery. Severe abdominal pain, vomiting, haematochezia, weight
loss and fever are less frequent. Extra-intestinal manifestations including
arthralgia, skin disorders, endocrine disorders, hepatitis, nephritis, pericarditis and pancreatitis are commonly associated. Bowel perforation is
rare (Haanen et al, 2017; Boutros et al, 2016; Robert et al, 2015).
Lower gastrointestinal endoscopy shows erythema, mucosal friability,
erosion or ulceration, primarily in the distal colon. The sigmoid colon
and the rectum are frequently affected. Sigmoidoscopy is generally sufficient to make the diagnosis. Histological features include neutrophilic
inflammation (46%), lymphocytic infiltration (15%) or both (38%)
(Haanen et al, 2017; Boutros et al, 2016; Marthey et al, 2016). Neutrophilic inflammation is predominantly associated with cryptitis and
crypt abscesses, whereas lymphocytic inflammation is characterised by
increased CD8+ T lymphocytes within the crypt epithelium and elevated
CD4+ lymphocytes in the lamina propria (Haanen et al, 2017; Boutros et
al, 2016; Lacouture et al, 2014). Granulomas and chronic inflammation
are rare. Endoscopic and/or microscopic inflammation of the oesophagus, stomach, duodenum and ileum may be associated.
3.1 Management of Adverse Events Related to Immune Checkpoint Blockade

249

Initial workup of diarrhoea in patients treated with ipilimumab includes
serum electrolytes, urea, creatinine, C-reactive protein and stool search
for enteropathogens and Clostridium difficile toxins. Grade 0 and 1 diarrhoea can be managed with antidiarrhoeal agents and oral hydration, but
many progress to higher grade colitis. Grade 3, 4 and persistent or complicated (dehydration, fever, tachycardia or haematochezia) grade 2 diarrhoea require a sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy. ICIs should be discontinued and oral or intravenous corticosteroids should be initiated at 1 mg/
kg/day. Patients with grade 3 or 4 diarrhoea or colitis (≥7 stools per day)
should be hospitalised and empirical treatment commenced. Intravenous
hydration and systemic methylprednisolone 1–2 mg/kg/day should be
prescribed. In patients with significant response to methylprednisolone,
a switch to the oral form should be made within 3–5 days and tapering
during the following 8–12 weeks is recommended. Patients with severe
colitis who do not respond to 3–7 days of intravenous corticosteroids
should be prescribed infliximab at a dose of 5 mg/kg of body weight.
Enterocolitis due to anti-PD-1 antibodies
Different patterns of gastrointestinal irAEs induced by anti-PD-1 antibodies
have been reported: acute colitis similar to that induced by anti-CTLA-4
antibodies, microscopic colitis, upper gastrointestinal involvement and
pseudo-obstruction (Collins et al, 2017). Most of these respond to corticosteroids.
Hepatotoxicity
Hepatitis occurs in 5%–10% (grade 3 in 1%–2%) of patients treated with
ipilimumab, nivolumab and pembrolizumab and in 25%–30% (grade
3 in 15%) of patients treated with the combination of ipilimumab and
nivolumab (Haanen et al, 2017; Boutros et al, 2016). Grade 3 hepatitis is
more frequently associated with nivolumab or pembrolizumab (15%) than
with ipilimumab monotherapy (1%–2%). Initial workup includes serum
transaminases, bilirubin and prothrombin time. Viral hepatitis, liver metastasis, alcohol and other drug-specific toxic reactions should be eliminated.
Liver biopsy may be recommended in severe hepatitis to rule out other
causes (Haanen et al, 2017). Histological features include lobular

250

Boutros et al.

hepatitis and, in some cases, sinusoidal histiocytosis and central vein
endotheliitis (Haanen et al, 2017; Gupta et al, 2015; Kim et al, 2013);
rarely, they include portal tract inflammation and cholangitis, similar to
changes observed in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).
For grade 1 hepatitis, treatment with ICIs may be continued. In the case
of grade 2 hepatitis (as gauged by the elevation of transaminases or total
bilirubin), ICIs should be withheld, and liver function tests monitored
twice weekly. Oral high-dose prednisone at 1 mg/kg or methylprednisolone at 0.5 to 1 mg/kg/day should be initiated if transaminases and
total bilirubin do not improve within 1–2 weeks. ICIs may be resumed
after corticosteroid tapering, once serum transaminases and total bilirubin improve to grade 1 hepatitis. If transaminases and total bilirubin
do not decrease despite initiation of corticosteroids, methylprednisolone
at a dose of 2 mg/kg/day should be used and ICIs permanently discontinued. For grade 3 or 4 transaminase or total bilirubin elevation, ICIs
should be permanently discontinued, and corticosteroids (methylprednisolone) initiated at 1–2 mg/kg/day. If transaminases and bilirubin do not
decrease within 2–3 days after corticosteroid initiation, oral mycophenolate mofetil at 1000 mg twice daily should be considered as well as antithymocyte globulins (Chmiel et al, 2011). Patients should be referred to
a hepatologist and liver biopsy considered in corticosteroid-refractory
cases (Chmiel et al, 2011).
Endocrine Toxicity
ICIs may affect the endocrine system. Endocrine disorders do not generally require interruption or cessation of ICIs. Hypothyroidism and
hyperthyroidism are more frequent with anti-PD-1 therapy, whereas
hypophysitis is more frequent with anti-CTLA-4 treatment.
Hypophysitis
Ipilimumab induces endocrinopathies in 6%–8% of patients, primarily the pituitary gland (Haanen et al, 2017; Boutros et al, 2016). Hypophysitis occurs in 1%–6% of patients treated with ipilimumab and in 8%
of patients treated with the combination of ipilimumab and nivolumab
(Haanen et al, 2017; Boutros et al, 2016). It is very rare in patients
3.1 Management of Adverse Events Related to Immune Checkpoint Blockade

251

treated with nivolumab or pembrolizumab monotherapy. Hypophysitis
may be subtle, but often manifests as headache, vertigo, nausea, diplopia, weakness or hypotension. Hypophysitis must be differentiated from
brain metastases. When an immune-related endocrinopathy is suspected,
a complete workup is necessary to determine pituitary, thyroid, adrenal
and gonadal status. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with pituitary images may be considered to exclude brain metastasis and potentially identify enlargement of the pituitary gland.
When hypophysitis is suspected, hormone replacement treatment (HRT)
should be initiated without awaiting a confirmed diagnosis if there is
no other apparent cause. Symptoms generally improve with adapted
HRT, and ICIs may usually be continued or resumed in patients on stable doses of HRT. High-dose corticosteroids are not necessary, except if
neurological problems or headaches are present. In that case, according
to the 2017 European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) Clinical
Practice Guidelines, an initial dose of systemic (methyl)prednisolone at
0.5–1 mg/kg should be administered, followed by tapering depending on
resolution of symptoms over up to 4 weeks and long-term adapted HRT
(Haanen et al, 2017).
Thyroid disorders
Thyroid disorders are more frequent with pembrolizumab and nivolumab
or the combination of ipilimumab and nivolumab, whereas hypophysitis
is more frequent with ipilimumab (Haanen et al, 2017; Boutros et al,
2016). Thyroid disorders occur in 1%–5% of patients treated with ipilimumab, 5%–10% of patients treated with pembrolizumab or nivolumab
and 20% of patients treated with the combination of ipilimumab and
nivolumab (Haanen et al, 2017; Boutros et al, 2016). Thyroid disorders
related to anti-PD-1 antibodies present with either a transient thyrotoxicosis followed by hypothyroidism (or euthyroidism) or hypothyroidism without an initial thyrotoxicosis. Symptomatic thyrotoxicosis may
require short-term treatment with beta-blockers and, in severe cases,
steroids and anti-thyroid drugs (e.g. propylthiouracil). It is generally
reversible, but hypothyroidism usually requires long-term HRT.

252

Boutros et al.

Adrenal insufficiency
Adrenal insufficiency results in low levels of cortisol (8am cortisol level
below 275 nmol/L) and normal to high levels of adrenocorticotropic
hormone (ACTH) (Haanen et al, 2017; Boutros et al, 2016). With adrenal insufficiency, ICIs may be continued, but immediate HRT with oral
hydrocortisone at 20–10–10 mg/day is required to avoid adrenal crisis.
Symptoms of adrenal crisis include severe dehydration, electrolyte disturbance, hypotension or shock, and require urgent hospitalisation to
initiate methylprednisolone intravenously. Sepsis or infection should be
ruled out in adrenal crises.
Pneumonitis
Pneumonitis is the most common pulmonary irAE and occurs more frequently with nivolumab or pembrolizumab monotherapy or the combination of ipilimumab and nivolumab than with ipilimumab alone. Other
lung conditions such as asthma-like, sarcoid-like reactions and myocarditis can also occur and should be excluded in a patient with dyspnoea.
Lung complications are less frequent with ipilimumab alone (Haanen et
al, 2017). Recently, pneumonitis has been better characterised in a large
retrospective analysis of patients receiving anti-PD-1/PD-L1 monotherapy or in combination with anti-CTLA-4 therapy (Naidoo et al, 2017).
Among the 915 patients treated, pneumonitis occurred in 4.6%. The incidence of pneumonitis was higher with the combination immunotherapy
versus monotherapy (10% versus 3%). Seventy-two per cent of the pneumonitis cases were grade 1–2, and 86% improved with drug withholding
and immunosuppression. When pneumonitis is suspected, a high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) scan is required. Radiological features are heterogeneous. They include ground-glass opacities (in 10%),
interstitial infiltrates (in 6%), cryptogenic organising pneumonia-like
patterns (in 5%) and hypersensitivity (in 3%) (Kim et al, 2013). In 4% of
cases, pneumonitis does not fit a specified subtype classification.
The management of pneumonitis depends on the severity of symptoms. In grade 1 pneumonitis (asymptomatic patients with radiological
changes only), ICIs may be continued with close monitoring. In grade
2 pneumonitis (mild dyspnoea), treatment should be withheld and bron3.1 Management of Adverse Events Related to Immune Checkpoint Blockade

253

choscopy, bronchoalveolar lavage and biopsy considered if infection or
disease progression are also suspected. Antibiotics should be initiated
if an infection is suspected. Otherwise, oral prednisolone 1–2 mg/kg/
day should be initiated with tapering over no less than 4 weeks when
symptoms improve. ICIs may be resumed if symptoms improve to grade
≤1 within 12 weeks and prednisolone reduced to ≤10 mg/day. In a grade
3 or 4 pneumonitis (severe dyspnoea, hypoxia, acute respiratory distress
symptoms), ICIs should be definitively discontinued and the patient hospitalised, with respiratory and intensive care specialists consulted. Bronchoscopy, bronchoalveolar lavage and biopsy should be considered and
methylprednisolone 2–4 mg/kg/day immediately initiated. When symptoms improve to grade ≤1, oral prednisolone may be initiated at 1–2 mg/
kg/day with tapering over no less than 4 weeks. If symptoms do not
improve within 48–72 hours after corticosteroid initiation, infliximab (5
mg/kg) or anti-thymocyte globulin should be administered.
Rare Immune-related Toxicities
Rarely (in ≤1%), unexpected irAEs may occur and require urgent consultation with a specialist to avoid a serious outcome (Haanen et al, 2017; Boutros
et al, 2016). Several studies have reported neurological, cardiac, ocular and
haematological toxicities.
Neuropathies
Neurological toxicities include myasthenia gravis, Guillain-Barré syndrome, meningo-radiculo-neuritis, granulomatous central nervous system inflammation and aseptic meningitis. In a retrospective analysis
of 59 trials involving 9208 patients treated with ICIs, immune-related
neuropathies occurred in 3.8%, 6.1% and 12% of patients treated with
anti-CTLA-4, anti-PD-1 and combined anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-1
drugs, respectively (Haanen et al, 2017). Therefore, patients should be
monitored for signs or symptoms of motor, sensory or autonomic neuropathy (Gu et al, 2017). In patients with grade 1 neurological symptoms, ICIs may be stopped or continued with very careful monitoring.
Unless an alternative aetiology has been identified, signs and symptoms
of neuropathy should be considered immune-mediated. In patients with

254

Boutros et al.

durable grade 1 or 2 symptoms (not interfering with daily activities),
ICIs should be withheld and prednisolone at 0.5–1 mg/kg/day should
be initiated. In grade 3–4 symptoms (interfering with daily activities or
life-threatening), ICIs should be permanently discontinued and highdose prednisolone at 1–2 mg/kg/day should be initiated, with a tapering
over at least 30 days. Plasmapheresis, systemic immunoglobulin or other
immunosuppressants (e.g. mycophenolate) may be required.
Cardiac toxicities
Rare cases of cardiac toxicities have been reported with ICIs. Recent
cases of myocarditis and myositis have been reported with combined ICIs
(Johnson et al, 2016). Among 20 594 patients treated with nivolumab,
ipilimumab or combined ipilimumab and nivolumab, 18 cases of drugrelated severe myocarditis were reported (0.09%). Patients who received
the combination immunotherapy tended to have more frequent and
severe myocarditis than those who received nivolumab alone (0.27%
versus 0.06%; p<0.001; 5 fatal events versus 1). Severe myositis (grade
3–4) also appeared more frequently with the combination immunotherapy (0.24% versus 0.15%). Therefore, patients should be monitored for
cardiac symptoms when they are treated with ICIs, and an immediate
consultation with a cardiologist is recommended. High-dose systemic
methylprednisolone at 1–2 mg/kg/day should be initiated. Other immunosuppressive drugs such as infliximab, mycophenolate mofetil, tacrolimus and anti-thymocyte globulin may be considered if symptoms do not
improve with corticosteroids.
Ocular toxicities
Rare cases of ocular toxicities may occur with ICIs. They include blepharitis, conjunctivitis, episcleritis, iritis, scleritis and uveitis. The incidence
per 1000 person–months of all grade uveitis was 3 (0; 80) (Boutros et al,
2016). Several studies have shown that patients treated with anti-CTLA-4
agents who were affected by diarrhoea or colitis were also likely to be
affected by uveitis or episcleritis (Haanen et al, 2017; Boutros et al, 2016).
In grade 1 or 2 AEs, topical steroids such as 1% prednisolone acetate suspension and iridocyclitics should be initiated. In grade 3 or 4 AEs, ICIs
3.1 Management of Adverse Events Related to Immune Checkpoint Blockade

255

should be permanently discontinued and systemic high-dose prednisolone
at 1–2 mg/kg/day initiated with a tapering over at least 30 days.
Haematological toxicities
ICIs may be associated with the development of immune-mediated cytopaenias, autoimmune haemolytic anaemia, pure red blood cell aplasia and
aplastic anaemia (Cooling et al, 2017). A case of fatal aplastic anaemia
was recently reported with the combination of ipilimumab and nivolumab
(Helgadottir et al, 2017). In the summary of product characteristics, grade
3 and 4 anaemia, neutropaenia and thrombocytopaenia occurred in 2.8%,
0.7% and 1.2% of patients treated with the combination immunotherapy
(n=448). Haematological toxicities tend to occur early during ICI treatment, often concomitant with irAEs of other organs (Helgadottir et al,
2017). The management of these irAEs is not well defined. Patients should
be referred to an expert team to avoid a fatal issue.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Boutros has declared consultancy for Bristol-Myers Squibb.
Dr Carbonnel has declared consultancy for Abbvie (lecture), BristolMyers Squibb (lecture and board), Enterome (board), Janssen (board),
Mayoly Spindler (research grant and lecture), Merck Sharp & Dohme
(lecture and board), Pfizer (lecture and board) and Takeda (lecture).
Additional disclosures more than 2 years old: consultancy for Falk,
Ferring (travel grant and board), Genentech (board), Hospira (lecture),
Otsuka (board) and Vifor (board).
Caroline Robert has declared consultancy for Roche, Novartis, BristolMyers Squibb, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Merck and Pierre Fabre.

Further Reading
Boutros C, Tarhini A, Routier E, et al. Safety profiles of anti-CTLA-4 and
anti-PD-1 antibodies alone and in combination. Nat Rev Clin Oncol 2016;
13:473–486.
Chmiel KD, Suan D, Liddle C, et al. Resolution of severe ipilimumabinduced hepatitis after antithymocyte globulin therapy. J Clin Oncol 2011;
29:e237–e240.

256

Boutros et al.

Collins M, Michot J, Danlos FX, et al. Inflammatory gastrointestinal diseases
associated with PD-1 blockade antibodies. Ann Oncol 2017; 28:2860–2865.
Cooling LL, Sherbeck J, Mowers JC, Hugan SL. Development of red blood cell
autoantibodies following treatment with checkpoint inhibitors: a new class of
anti-neoplastic, immunotherapeutic agents associated with immune dysregulation. Immunohematology 2017; 33:15–21.
Gu Y, Menzies AM, Long GV, et al. Immune mediated neuropathy following
checkpoint immunotherapy. J Clin Neurosci 2017; 45:14–17.
Gupta A, De Felice KM, Loftus EV Jr, Khanna S. Systematic review: colitis
associated with anti-CTLA-4 therapy. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2015;
42:406–417.
Haanen JBAG, Carbonnel F, Robert C, et al. Management of toxicities from
immunotherapy: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol 2017; 28(Suppl. 4):iv119–iv142.
Helgadottir H, Kis L, Ljungman P, et al. Lethal aplastic anemia caused by dual
immune checkpoint blockade in metastatic melanoma. Ann Oncol 2017;
28:1672–1673.
Hua C, Boussemart L, Mateus C, et al. Association of vitiligo with tumor
response in patients with metastatic melanoma treated with pembrolizumab.
JAMA Dermatol 2016; 152:45–51.
Johnson DB, Balko JM, Compton ML, et al. Fulminant myocarditis with combination immune checkpoint blockade. N Engl J Med 2016; 375:1749–1755.
Kim KW, Ramaiya NH, Krajewski KM, et al. Ipilimumab associated hepatitis: imaging and clinicopathologic findings. Invest New Drugs 2013;
31:1071–1077.
Marthey L, Mateus C, Mussini C, et al. Cancer immunotherapy with antiCTLA-4 monoclonal antibodies induces an inflammatory bowel disease. J
Crohns Colitis 2016;10:395–401.
Naidoo J, Wang X, Woo KM, et al. Pneumonitis in patients treated with antiprogrammed death-1/programmed death ligand 1 therapy. J Clin Oncol 2017;
35:709–717.
Robert C, Schachter J, Long GV, et al. Pembrolizumab versus ipilimumab in
advanced melanoma. N Engl J Med 2015; 372:2521–2532.
Weber JS, Hodi FS, Wolchok JD, et al. Safety profile of nivolumab monotherapy:
a pooled analysis of patients with advanced melanoma. J Clin Oncol 2017;
35:785–792.
Wolchok JD, Chiarion-Sileni V, Gonzalez R, et al. Overall survival with combined nivolumab and ipilimumab in advanced melanoma. N Engl J Med
2017; 377:1345–1356.

3.1 Management of Adverse Events Related to Immune Checkpoint Blockade

257

3.2 Immune Checkpoint
Blockade: Response Patterns and
Assessment of Response
M. Jalving1
E. G. E. de Vries1
L. Seymour2
 epartment of Medical Oncology, University Medical Centre, Groningen,
D
Netherlands
2
Canadian Cancer Trials Group, Queens University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada
1

The Problem
Immune-based therapies are a major advancement in patient care and
have caused a paradigm shift in the landscape of cancer treatment. Treatment of patients with immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) can result in
unconventional tumour ‘response’ patterns in comparison with those
seen using classic chemotherapy (ChT) drugs. Concerns about using the
existing tools to evaluate tumour response to immune-based treatments
have led to the development of dedicated systems of response evaluation
for immunotherapeutic drugs.

Response Patterns in Immunotherapy
Response to ICB requires T cell activation and this mechanism of action
is postulated to result in unusual patterns of tumour ‘response’ that can
resemble tumour flare. This type of response appears to be more pronounced and more frequent than previously described for classic ChT
drugs. From the time of the first melanoma trials, some patients whose
disease met the criteria for disease progression based on traditional
response criteria went on to have late but deep and durable responses.
A decrease in tumour burden after an initial apparent increase, or after

258

the development of ‘new’ lesions, has been termed ‘pseudoprogression’.
This apparent tumour size increase detected on imaging is thought to be
caused by T cell infiltration as a result of immune activation, rather than
by tumour cell proliferation. Thus, while imaging may detect an increase
in size of lesions (which may result in previously undetectable lesions
becoming visible), it does not represent true disease progression. This has
occasionally been confirmed by biopsy as inflammatory cell infiltrates or
necrosis. The most commonly reported immune-related response pattern
is a decrease in size of target lesions in combination with development of
new lesions, although initial tumour enlargement with subsequent slow
steady decrease in tumour burden has also been reported. Although initially reported as an early event, more recent observations indicate that
pseudoprogression can also occur later during the course of therapy after
an initial period of stable disease (SD) or even partial response (PR).
Although pseudoprogression has been well described and the phenomenon has attracted much attention, it is important to recognise that the true
incidence of pseudoprogression in cancer patients treated with immune
checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) is low. In studies of patients with melanoma
receiving cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed
cell death protein 1 (PD-1) inhibitors, the reported incidence rates of
pseudoprogression are below 10%. An incidence of 5% was reported
in patients with advanced stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
treated with nivolumab, and the incidence might be even lower in other
cancer types such as bladder cancer and renal cell carcinoma. Detailed,
objective data on potential immune responses are available for less than
one-third of studies performed, and comparisons of the true incidence
between studies are hampered by the lack of a gold-standard method for
immune response assessment.
The degree of tumour regression after an initial size increase that has
been observed in patients who display pseudoprogression is variable and
dependent on the method of assessment. In melanoma patients treated
with pembrolizumab, increases in tumour burden of <20% from baseline
were associated with longer overall survival (OS) compared with patients
with a ≥20% increase. However, in this study the frequency of patients
with an unconventional response pattern was <5%, and patients with
3.2 Immune Checkpoint Blockade: Response Patterns and Assessment of Response

259

tumour shrinkage at all time points were not compared with the group
with 0%–20% increase in burden. For patients treated with ipilimumab,
survival in patients with unconventional or delayed responses was similar compared with patients with responses captured by traditional criteria.
Prospective analysis is required of the impact of unconventional response
patterns, measured in a standardised fashion, on patient survival.
Other types of unusual ‘response’ patterns have also been reported,
including hyperprogression, reported to occur in up to 9% of patients and
more commonly in elderly patients. Hyperprogressive disease is defined
as progression at 12 weeks with a doubling of tumour growth rate after
the start of therapy compared with before treatment. The abscopal effect
refers to the rare observation that anti-tumour effects of radiotherapy
(RT) can be observed outside the radiation field. This is likely due to
antigen-presenting cell (APC) migration and T cell activation in draining
lymph nodes following local RT. However, RT can also recruit immunosuppressive cells to tumours and, for this reason, the combination of
immunotherapy and RT requires further study. An abscopal effect after
local RT has been described in numerous case reports of patients treated
with ICB, but is yet to be confirmed in a prospective clinical trial.
When unusual response patterns occur during therapy, they pose dilemmas in clinical decision-making in terms of risk versus benefit of continuing therapy. There is frequently the hope that the apparent increase
in tumour burden is an early indicator of response rather than true, and
perhaps aggressive, progression. In immunotherapy trials, patients may
be allowed to continue therapy beyond progression when their treating
physician considers them to be deriving continued therapeutic benefit.
Similarly, in routine clinical practice, decisions regarding continuation
of immunotherapy beyond progression are made subjectively based on
the overall assessments of clinical improvement and treatment tolerance.
However, since pseudoprogression appears to be a relatively uncommon
event, and indeed perhaps less frequent than hyperprogression, an apparent increase of tumour burden is more likely to reflect true progression
than pseudoprogression. In case of true progression, continued treatment
may delay the start of effective salvage therapy for many weeks. Therefore, the establishment, validation and implementation of a standardised

260

Jalving et al.

strategy to evaluate immune-related responses in patients receiving ICIs,
both within clinical trials and in routine practice, is essential.

Criteria for Response
Cancer patients on active treatment undergo scheduled restaging scans
and radiographic measurements of tumour lesions to determine the extent
of change in tumour size. A standardised methodology to define tumour
response was initially developed by the World Health Organization
(WHO) in 1992 and later simplified in 2000 by the Response Evaluation
Criteria In Solid Tumours (RECIST) working group after validation in
a large data warehouse. In 2009, RECIST was refined to RECIST version 1.1. These criteria are the preferred platform for defining response
to therapy in clinical trials, and frequently guide routine practice. When
using RECIST criteria, a significant one-dimensional increase in the size
of tumour lesions, the development of new lesions and/or, in exceptional
circumstances, an unequivocal increase in non-target disease are considered disease progression. In contrast to when there is partial or complete
tumour response, a confirmatory scan for progression is not required.
The majority of immunotherapy trials have used RECIST v1.1 to define
the primary response-based endpoints. This is due to the lack of validated alternatives and because regulatory agencies continue to base the
approvals of novel agents on RECIST-defined outcomes. The recognition
that pseudoprogression followed by delayed responses may result in an
inaccurate estimation of the true data of progression prompted the development and use of immune-related response criteria (irRC). The first
consensus-based irRC guidelines were published in 2009 and were based
on the WHO criteria using bi-dimensional measures. In these guidelines,
new lesions did not define progressive disease, but their measurements
were included in the sum of the measures of target lesions. Four years
later, the guidelines were revised to incorporate uni-dimensional rather
than bi-dimensional measurements and have been referred to as irRECIST. Unfortunately, only a few clinical trials have used irRC or irRECIST as the primary criteria to define their endpoints, although others
have included irRC, irRECIST or similar modified criteria as secondary
response criteria. However, these criteria are not always consistently
3.2 Immune Checkpoint Blockade: Response Patterns and Assessment of Response

261

applied, hampering validation and leading to concerns about the comparability of data across trials. This is worrisome, as changes in tumour
burden are often used as surrogates of survival or quality of life.
These concerns prompted the RECIST working group, together with
representatives from academia, pharmaceutical companies and regulatory agencies, to develop a guideline for the use of a modified RECIST
(named iRECIST) to ensure consistent trial design and data collection.
The iRECIST guideline describes a standard approach to solid tumour
measurement and definitions for objective change in tumour size for use
in immunotherapy clinical trials. Initial response is measured according
to RECIST v1.1. If the RECIST v1.1 criteria for tumour progression are
met, this is defined as unconfirmed progressive disease (iUPD) for which
confirmation is required. In the absence of clinical deterioration, patients
continue treatment until the confirmation scan 4–8 weeks later. If there
is worsening of disease bulk on the next scan, this is considered to be
confirmed progressive disease (iCPD). Importantly, providing progression is not confirmed during the next scan, then complete response (CR),
PR or SD (using RECIST v1.1 criteria and compared with baseline) can
still be assigned at a subsequent timepoint, despite a previous iUPD.
New lesions are managed using RECIST v1.1 principles (definitions of
measurable, target and non-target disease) but are not added to the sum
of target lesions. iRECIST recommends that the confirmatory scan after
an unconfirmed progression is performed with an interval of at least
4 weeks but no more than 8 weeks after iUPD, to ensure that patients
remain fit for salvage therapy. In the absence of salvage therapy or predictable tumour kinetics, a longer interval may be considered appropriate, providing it is well described in the trial protocol.
The similarities and changes in iRECIST compared with RECIST v1.1
are summarised in Table 1 and illustrated in Figure 1. An explanatory
video, training slides and an example of a case record form can be found
on the RECIST website (http://recist.eortc.org/irecist/; 15 May 2018,
date last accessed). The iRECIST guideline was published in early 2017
and iRECIST will, once enough data have been accumulated, be evaluated as a potential novel standard for response measurement in immunotherapy trials.

262

Jalving et al.

Table 1 Summary of Similarities and Differences between RECIST v1.1 and iRECIST
RECIST v1.1

iRECIST

≥10 mm (longest diameter)
≥15 mm (shortest diameter)

≥10 mm (longest diameter)
≥15 mm (shortest diameter)

Target lesions

Maximum 5
Maximum 2 per organ site

Maximum 5
Maximum 2 per organ site

Non-target lesions

Other (non-)measurable lesions Other (non-)measurable lesions

Measurable disease
-Non-lymph node
-Lymph node

Calculation of SOM

Total diameter of target lesions

Complete response

Disappearance of target lesions Disappearance of target lesions
All lymph nodes <10 mm
All lymph nodes <10 mm
Confirmation required
Confirmation required

Total diameter of target lesions

Stable disease

<30% decrease SOM,
<20% increase SOM

<30% decrease SOM,
<20% increase SOM

Partial response

≥30% decrease SOM
Confirmation required

≥30% decrease SOM
Confirmation required

Progressive disease

≥20% increase SOM and
≥5 mm increase lesion
or New lesion
or Non-target PD
No confirmation required

≥20% increase SOM and
≥5 mm increase lesion
or Non-target PD resulting in iUPD
Confirmation required and in the meantime continuation
of therapy when clinical deterioration is absent

New lesions

Define PD

Result in iUPD. Maximum 5, 2 per organ site, recorded
as new target lesion (in separate iSOM). iCPD is only
assigned if at next assessment additional new lesions
appear or an increase in size of new lesions is seen
(≥5 mm for sum of new lesion target or any increase in
new lesion non-target); the appearance of new lesions
when none have previously been recorded can also
confirm iCPD

Confirmation of
progressive disease

Not required

Required at the next assessment (4–8 weeks later)
If not performed, reasons must be recorded including
reason for treatment discontinuation

Clinical status

Not recorded

Record performance status, disease-related symptoms
and intensification of symptom management

Best overall response and time-point of best overall response must be recorded for both RECIST v1.1 and iRECIST.
Abbreviations: iCPD, confirmed progressive disease; iUPD, unconfirmed progressive disease; PD, progressive disease; RECIST, Response
Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours; SOM, sum of measurement.

3.2 Immune Checkpoint Blockade: Response Patterns and Assessment of Response

263

Figure 1 RECIST v1.1 and iRECIST: an example of assessment.

From Seymour L, Bogaerts J, Perrone A, et al. iRECIST: guidelines for response criteria for use in trials testing
immunotherapeutics. Lancet Oncol 2017;18:e143–e152. Reprinted with permission of Macmillan Publishers Ltd.
Copyright ©2017.

Percentage change from baseline of sum of measures
of target lesion

RECIST v1.1

iRECIST describes data management, collection and use
iUPD

30

Progression

20
10

Progression criteria
no longer met

Now meets criteria for progression
with a new lesion and ≥20% increase
in target lesion from nadir.This is iUPD
and not iCPD as stable disease or
partial response has intervened and
so the bar has been reset

iUPD

0
-10

Progression here based
on an increase of ≥20%
in target lesions

-20
-30
-40
Target lesion

Non-target lesions

Baseline

TP1

Not iCPD
because
iSD and
iPR have
occurred
since
iUPD
at TP1

iSD
Now meets criteria for stable
disease from baseline so
progression not confirmed
New lesion

TP2

iPR
Now meets criteria for
partial response from nadir
or baseline so is iPR

TP3

TP4

TP5

Timepoint

Prefix ‘i’ indicates immune responses assigned using iRECIST; others without ‘i’ are confirmed by RECIST v1.1.
Abbreviations: iCPD, complete progressive disease; iPR, partial response; iSD, stable disease; iUPD, unconfirmed progressive disease;
RECIST, Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours; TP, timepoint.

Potential Future Developments
Clinical trial data collected according to RECIST v1.1 and iRECIST
(recorded prospectively or with retrospective measurements derived
from central imaging review) will be collected to create an immunotherapy data warehouse with the goal of validating iRECIST or suggesting
modifications. Although tumour kinetics can be assessed from studies
that have incorporated iRECIST, the collection of additional data from
imaging performed prior to enrolment is also recommended and should
be incorporated into protocols and informed consent documents, to allow
the evaluation of hyperprogression as well as pseudoprogression. For
trials combining RT and ICIs, the collection of data on timing of RT and
tumour lesions irradiated should be considered.
Future validation of the warehouse will clarify outstanding issues regarding timing and frequency of scans. Scans are currently recommended
every 6–12 weeks, with scans for progression 4–8 weeks after iUPD in

264

Jalving et al.

addition to the standard scan schedule. Early response evaluation at 4–6
weeks after start of therapy has been suggested to facilitate identification
of rapid progressors. An intensive scanning schedule provides detailed
information to guide clinical decisions and a wealth of information for
validation of iRECIST, but these advantages must be weighed against
burden to patients, radiation exposure and costs.
It is important to recognise that iRECIST is a guideline for the management of data collection and has not yet been formally validated as new
criteria for response-based endpoints for clinical trials of immune-based
therapies. This approach was adopted because it was clear in the rapidly
moving environment of immune-based cancer therapies that multiple
different criteria were being developed that would limit the ability to create a warehouse. It is also the reason why iRECIST recommends the use
of RECIST v1.1 to define primary response-based endpoints, with iRECIST used as exploratory secondary endpoints, at least for pivotal trials.
Universal adoption of iRECIST may additionally aid decision-making in
routine practice, although the guidelines are currently not designed for
use outside the trial setting.
Simultaneously, several other ongoing initiatives are searching for a
potential role for other imaging techniques. Functional positron emission tomography (PET) imaging, visualising expression of checkpoints
or markers of immune activation, is of interest as well as detailed analysis of tumour characteristics using regular imaging modalities, known as
radiomics. Furthermore, combination of imaging results with clinical,
blood- or tumour-derived biomarkers may further refine predictions of
tumour response to ICIs.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Jalving has participated in an advisory panel for Merck, payment
made available to UMCG.
Dr de Vries has received grant/research support from Amgen, Roche/
Genentech, Chugai Pharma, AstraZeneca and CytomX, all payments
made available to the UMCG.
Dr Seymour has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
3.2 Immune Checkpoint Blockade: Response Patterns and Assessment of Response

265

Further Reading
Champiat S, Dercle L, Ammari S, et al. Hyperprogressive disease is a new pattern of progression in cancer patients treated by anti-PD-1/PD-L1. Clin Cancer Res 2017; 23:1920–1928.
Chiou VL, Burotto M. Pseudoprogression and immune-related response in solid
tumors. J Clin Oncol 2015; 33:3541–3543.
Di Giacomo AM, Danielli R, Guidoboni M, et al. Therapeutic efficacy of ipilimumab, an anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody, in patients with metastatic
melanoma unresponsive to prior systemic treatments: clinical and immunological evidence from three patient cases. Cancer Immunol Immunother
2009; 58:1297–1306.
Gettinger SN, Horn L, Gandhi L, et al. Overall survival and long-term safety of
nivolumab (anti-programmed death 1 antibody, BMS-936558, ONO-4538)
in patients with previously treated advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.
J Clin Oncol 2015; 33:2004–2012.
Hodi FS, Hwu WJ, Kefford R, et al. Evaluation of immune-related response criteria and RECIST v1.1 in patients with advanced melanoma treated with
pembrolizumab. J Clin Oncol 2016; 34:1510–1517.
Nishino M. Immune-related response evaluations during immune-checkpoint
inhibitor therapy: establishing a “common language” for the new arena of
cancer treatment. J Immunother Cancer 2016; 4:30.
Nishino M, Giobbie-Hurder A, Gargano M, et al. Developing a common language
for tumor response to immunotherapy: Immune-related response criteria
using unidimensional measurements. Clin Cancer Res 2013; 19:3936–3943.
Nishino M, Giobbie-Hurder A, Manos MP, et al. Immune-related tumor response
dynamics in melanoma patients treated with pembrolizumab: identifying
markers for clinical outcome and treatment decisions. Clin Cancer Res 2017;
23:4671–4679.
Seymour L, Bogaerts J, Perrone A, et al. iRECIST: guidelines for response
criteria for use in trials testing immunotherapeutics. Lancet Oncol 2017;
18:e143–e152.
Weichselbaum RR, Liang H, Deng L, Fu YX. Radiotherapy and immunotherapy:
a beneficial liaison? Nat Rev Clin Oncol 2017; 14:365–379.
Wolchok JD, Hoos A, O’Day S, et al. Guidelines for the evaluation of immune
therapy activity in solid tumors: immune-related response criteria. Clin Cancer Res 2009; 15:7412–7420.

266

Jalving et al.

3.3 Immunotherapy in Special
Populations
L. Spain1
J. Larkin1
A. M. Menzies2,3
Skin Unit, The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK
Melanoma Institute Australia and The University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia
3
Royal North Shore and Mater Hospitals, Sydney, Australia
1
2

Introduction
Clinicians are often faced with complex decision-making around the
administration of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) in groups of
patients who appear to be at greater risk of an immune-related adverse
event (irAE). These so-called ‘special populations’ include patients with
a pre-existing autoimmune condition, the elderly and those with a poor
performance status (PS).
There are several treatment and patient factors to consider in this situation. Single-agent anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and
anti-programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) antibodies do not induce the
same frequency of severe irAEs as anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen
4 (CTLA-4) monotherapy and combinations of anti-PD-1/PD-L1 with
anti-CTLA-4, and may be preferable in many of the groups discussed
below. The risk/benefit ratio for patients being considered for adjuvant
therapy is also different to those with metastatic disease.
This chapter provides guidance for clinicians faced with treating patients
who belong to a special population. The vast majority of these patients
would not have been eligible for large randomised trials. Therefore, the
majority of the literature on special populations is retrospective and
anecdotal. The care of these individuals is optimised in a large centre

267

with clinicians experienced in the management of complex and rare
irAEs. Liaison with physicians in associated specialties is important to
help anticipate and mitigate potential toxicity. Table 1 summarises the
key points discussed in this chapter.
Table 1 Key Points for the Management of Immunotherapy in Special Populations
Prior ICI toxicity

Based on limited retrospective data, administration of anti-PD-1 agents after ipilimumab
toxicity is generally safe and does not usually reproduce the same toxicity. Similarly,
resumption of anti-PD-1 treatment after combination ICI therapy may be considered,
particularly in those with toxicities more attributable to ipilimumab (e.g. colitis)

Pre-existing
autoimmunity

Ipilimumab and anti-PD-1 antibodies are generally safe, although flares can occur, and
maintenance immunosuppression may reduce efficacy of ICIs

Transplant recipients

Allograft rejection may occur; however, this does not necessarily compromise the
potential for tumour response

Chronic infections

ICI treatment appears to be safe in patients with controlled hepatitis B and C infection,
as well as HIV

Older adults

Age alone should not be a limiting factor for ICI therapy; however, a more
comprehensive functional assessment should be considered

Poor performance status In patients compromised by disease with a high chance of response, ICI treatment can
be administered with close monitoring
Organ dysfunction

The metabolism of ICIs does not rely upon renal or hepatic function; haemodialysis is
not a contraindication

Pregnancy & fertility

ICIs theoretically pose a risk to the foetus; endocrine toxicities may negatively impact
fertility

General comments

Randomised, prospective evidence is lacking to inform management across these
patient groups
Liaison with multidisciplinary teams and experienced academic centres is
recommended for complex cases

Abbreviations: HIV, human immunodeficiency virus; ICI, immune checkpoint inhibitor; PD-1, programmed cell death protein 1.

Clinical Results/Patient Groups
Prior ICI Toxicity
Retrospective, multicentre studies in advanced melanoma have looked
at cohorts of patients treated with nivolumab or pembrolizumab who
experienced prior significant toxicity with single-agent ipilimumab and
also combination ICI therapy. In a series by Menzies et al (2017), of the
67 patients receiving anti-PD-1 therapy who required immunosuppression for prior ipilimumab-related toxicity (including patients who had

268

Spain et al.

received infliximab and anti-thymocyte globulin for colitis and hepatitis,
respectively), 21% developed a grade 3–4 irAE and 12% had to discontinue their anti-PD-1 therapy. Only two patients experienced a recurrence of their ipilimumab toxicity, and these were grade 1–2 in severity.
In this group, characterised by predominantly visceral metastatic disease
(M1c), the response rate was 40%.
Gutzmer et al (2017) reported outcomes on a series of 22 patients treated
with anti-PD-1 therapy after experiencing an ipilimumab-related toxicity (10 of whom only had grade 2 irAEs). Two of these patients, both of
whom experienced colitis, were still on treatment for their irAE at the
time of PD-1 initiation. Only one patient experienced a recurrence of his
ipilimumab-related toxicity and five patients developed a new irAE. These
were all grade 2 in severity, manageable with medical treatment and did
not require discontinuation. The response rate in this group was 46%.
The resumption of anti-PD-1 treatment subsequent to toxicity with
combination anti-PD-1/anti-CTLA-4 therapy was examined in 2018 in
a series of 80 patients by Pollack et al. The median number of combination ICI cycles prior to cessation was two, with 69% stopping due to
grade 3 and 4 adverse events (AEs). The median time to resuming antiPD-1 treatment was 58 days (range 14–395), and this was for ongoing
maintenance in 81% and for progression in 16% (two cases unknown).
Upon resumption of anti-PD-1 therapy, 50% experienced an AE of any
grade, with 18% experiencing grade 3–5 AEs. One patient died due to
Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis. It was uncommon for colitis to recur (6%), whereas 17% had a recurrence of hepatitis.
Patients still receiving steroids for or having symptoms of the AE at the
time of anti-PD-1 resumption had higher rates of toxicity (55% versus
31% and 30% versus 17%, respectively). Of the 16% resuming treatment
for progressive disease, 31% had a partial response.
These series provide some reassurance that treatment with anti-PD-1
agents after significant toxicity with ipilimumab-containing regimens
may be safe and effective. Nonetheless, patients should be informed
that they are at risk of further irAEs that may be severe and, in rare
circumstances, fatal. Whether repeated administration of combination
3.3 Immunotherapy in Special Populations

269

anti-CTLA-4/anti-PD-1 or PD-L1 is appropriate in this setting is unclear
and remains at the discretion of the treating physician. In one series by
Spain et al (2017), of three consecutive melanoma cases rechallenged
with combination ipilimumab and nivolumab on the background of prior
grade 3 toxicity with ipilimumab + nivolumab, recurrent toxicity was
seen in one patient and a different grade 3 toxicity in another. All irAEs
were manageable and clinical benefit was observed; however, more data
are required to draw any conclusions about the safety of combination
therapy in this context, and it cannot therefore be recommended outside
major immunotherapy centres.
Pre-existing Autoimmunity
Patients with pre-existing autoimmune diseases (ADs) such as rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis and inflammatory bowel disease are theoretically at risk of a flare in their condition with the augmented immune
response facilitated by ICIs.
Two multicentre series have reported outcomes for patients with a variety of pre-existing autoimmune disorders, including rheumatological
and endocrine conditions, myositis and neurological disorders, who
were treated with anti-PD-1 agents. In the series by Menzies et al (2017),
of the 52 patients identified, 29% had ‘active’ symptoms of their AD
and 38% were on immunosuppressants at treatment commencement.
Thirty-eight per cent of patients experienced a flare in their AD and this
was more common in the group with active symptoms. Proportionately,
the majority occurred in those with a background rheumatological condition (52%). Flares were mostly mild, but in two patients anti-PD-1
therapy was ceased. Notably, the response rate was lower for patients
on background immunosuppression (15% versus 44%) but did not differ
between those with and without a flare (35% and 31%, respectively). In
the series by Gutzmer et al (2017) (n=19; including 5 cases of autoimmune thyroiditis which would not have excluded participation in trials
and not thought to be significant), 42% had a flare but no one discontinued treatment. At the start of therapy, 33% were on immunosuppression,
32% on hormone replacement and 35% on no additional therapy for their
AD. The reported response rate was 32% to anti-PD-1 therapy.

270

Spain et al.

Patients treated with ipilimumab for advanced melanoma who had a history of AD were evaluated by Johnson et al (2016). In this series of 30
patients, 20% remained on steroids and 23% on other immunomodulatory therapies when ipilimumab was commenced. Exacerbations of the
autoimmune condition requiring treatment occurred in eight patients
(27%). These consisted of worsening of existing symptoms, and treatment with low-dose corticosteroids (up to 30 mg prednisolone) was
effective in six of the eight patients. The other two required prednisolone
at 1 mg/kg. Overall in this cohort the tumour response rate was 20%.
In summary, selected patients with pre-existing ADs, be that ‘active’ (i.e.
ongoing symptoms) or ‘inactive’ (i.e. no current manifestations), may be
safely treated with ICI monotherapy. In the ‘active’ group, flares of AD
are common but appear to be manageable and rarely result in treatment
cessation. The decision to treat such patients must be made with multidisciplinary support, with the likelihood of response and ramifications
of a flare of the underlying disorder discussed. Background immunosuppression should be weaned to the lowest dose possible to optimise
the chance of response. These patients warrant more frequent clinical
review. In patients with active symptoms or in those who require ongoing
immunomodulatory treatment, we would not recommend combination
ICI therapy based on a lack of safety data at present.
Transplant Recipients
Administration of ICIs in patient with solid organ transplants carries a
risk of graft rejection; however, control of metastatic spread is often a
greater priority. The implications of a renal allograft rejection are very
different to those of a liver or heart transplant. Factors such as the age of
the graft, the extent of donor–recipient human leukocyte antigen (HLA)
matching, prior rejection episodes and the level of maintenance immunosuppression may all impact on the risk of rejection.
There have been no systematic studies to date on the risk of graft rejection with ICI treatment. Many case reports describe rejection with antiPD-1 therapy, whereas only two describe rejection with anti-CTLA-4
therapy. There are several reported cases where the allograft has not been
affected and patients have derived clinical benefit from anti-CTLA-4
3.3 Immunotherapy in Special Populations

271

treatment; however, in the one case reported where anti-PD-1 therapy did
not lead to rejection, no response was reported. There is a stronger scientific rationale for why PD-1 blockade may lead to rejection, and this may
explain the bias in the anecdotal literature toward anti-PD-1-mediated
rejection. Nonetheless, tumour shrinkage may still occur even after graft
rejection and responses may be durable.
Where possible in this cohort, the use of targeted therapy or chemotherapy is advisable; however, administration of ICIs is not absolutely
contraindicated. Involvement of the transplant physician is crucial. Ideally, maintenance immunosuppression should be minimised prior to ICI
administration, and the use of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)
inhibitors instead of calcineurin inhibitors may be considered. Although
reduction of maintenance immunosuppression may in theory result in
tumour shrinkage due to restoration of the immune response, prospective
evidence of this is lacking, and it appears more relevant to post-transplant
lymphoproliferative disorders (PTLDs) than solid organ malignancies.
Treating oncologists need to monitor for the symptoms of graft rejection,
which can be non-specific and may occur within the first cycle of ICI
initiation or later in the course of therapy. Graft salvage with high-dose
steroids has only been described in one case.
Chronic Infections
Anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4 agents have been safely administered to
patients with metastatic cancer despite concurrent human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis C infection. In the published case
reports of patients with HIV who have been treated with ICIs, all were
on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) with an undetectable
viral load. ICIs may actually assist in reducing viral load and improving CD4 count in HIV infection, likely due to their ability to reverse T
cell exhaustion. This has been described in a case report by Guihot et al
(2018), and a multicentre series presented at the European Society for
Medical Oncology (ESMO) 2017 annual congress by Rai et al.
Nivolumab was evaluated in a phase I/II trial of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, many of whom had hepatitis B and C infection. No new
safety signals were observed in this study. Patients with hepatitis B were

272

Spain et al.

required to be on anti-viral therapy with a suppressed viral load, but concurrent treatment for hepatitis C was not mandated. Safe and successful
treatment in the presence of an untreated hepatitis C infection with a
detectable viral load has been reported.
Overall, ICI treatment appears to be safe in patients with chronic viruses
controlled on therapy or who have undetectable viral loads. Although not
reported, theoretically there is a risk of immune reconstitution syndrome
in these patients. Consultation with the patient’s managing specialist
should be conducted. Quantification of viral load, as well as CD4 counts
in the case of HIV, should be performed at the beginning of ICI therapy
and periodically thereafter.
In patients at high risk of exposure, it is worth taking a thorough history
and testing for latent bacterial infections such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Such patients should be discussed with an infectious diseases
physician as to whether they warrant prophylaxis. As with chronic viral
infections, preclinical work suggests PD-1 blockade may also be helpful
as an adjunct to antibiotic treatment in tuberculosis. Consequent immune
reconstitution may lead to an inflammatory response.
Older Adults
Retrospective studies have reviewed the use of ICIs in patients >70 years
old. A systematic review and meta-analysis of several phase III ipilimumab studies failed to find different outcomes for patients aged 65–75
and >75 years old (Nishijima et al, 2016). This same analysis looked
at anti-PD-1 treatment in these two age brackets but did not find a survival benefit over control treatment for those >75 years old. This is most
likely attributable to small numbers. Consistent with the results from ICI
monotherapy studies, a subgroup analysis from the CheckMate 067 trial
showed that patients >75 years old did not have a higher rate of grade
3–4 irAEs across treatments. Combination ipilimumab + nivolumab was
still significantly better for progression-free survival (PFS) and objective
response rate (ORR) than ipilimumab monotherapy.
Although these studies do not raise concerns for patients >70 years old
being treated with either monotherapy or combination regimens, the vast
3.3 Immunotherapy in Special Populations

273

majority of patients were Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG)
perfomance status (PS) 0 or 1, significantly limiting the ability to generalise these results. Age on its own should not be a contraindication
for treatment; however, elderly patients in the clinic may have multiple co-morbidities and less physiological reserve to cope with toxicity.
Geriatric evaluations may provide a more comprehensive perspective on
functional status. If there is concern over tolerance of ICIs, single-agent
anti-PD-1/PD-L1 agents are the safest choice in this group.
Poor PS
Clinical trials and most expanded access programmes of ICIs require
an ECOG PS of 0 or 1 for treatment eligibility. As such, there is little
published literature on outcomes with ICIs in patients with a PS >2. In
the phase II study of atezolizumab for cisplatin-ineligible patients with
urothelial cancer, 27% of patients were ECOG PS 2 (Balar et al, 2017).
There was no apparent difference in response rate to treatment, although
the trial was not powered for this comparison. In a patient whose PS
is compromised by symptoms of cancer, and with a good chance of
response, single-agent PD-1 or PD-L1 is a reasonable treatment choice.
In an otherwise fit patient compromised by metastatic disease, a combination anti-CTLA-4/PD-1 or PD-L1 regimen may be appropriate.
Organ Dysfunction and Haemodialysis
ICIs are immunoglobulin (Ig)G antibodies, eliminated by intracellular
catabolism. This makes their clearance independent of renal and hepatic
function. Nonetheless, the evidence for their safety in patients with reduced
organ function is limited. In one retrospective series of 27 patients with
chronic kidney disease, congestive cardiac failure and hepatic impairment,
worsening of baseline organ dysfunction was not attributed to anti-PD-1
treatment and was reversible with supportive care. Grade 3–4 irAEs were
experienced in three patients (11%) and 59% derived clinical benefit from
anti-PD-1 therapy (i.e. stable disease or response).
Reduced organ function may complicate the recovery from irAEs and
this should be considered in the toxicity management strategy. For example, patients with chronic kidney disease and diarrhoea may warrant

274

Spain et al.

admission for hydration and fluid balance. Immunomodulatory medications may require dose adjustment in this setting too.
Patients on haemodialysis may be treated with ICIs. The size of the
antibodies is such that they are not removed by standard haemodialysis
membranes. No AEs were noted in three patients on dialysis in the series
by Kanz et al (2016).
Pregnancy and Fertility Implications
In patients who are pregnant, the use of ICIs is not deemed safe. The
pregnant uterus is considered an immune-privileged site, and both the
CTLA-4 and the PD-1/PD-L1 pathways play important roles in the protection of the foetus from maternal T cells that may recognise foreign
antigens.
In patients of reproductive age who are considering future pregnancy,
there is a potential impact on fertility, for example as a consequence of
hypophysitis. In many of these patients, pregnancy may not be advisable
due to their limited prognosis from the underlying malignancy. However, with durable remissions now possible for metastatic disease, this
has become a grey area. The survival benefit associated with adjuvant
ICIs in melanoma will see a greater proportion of patients undergo ICI
therapy for whom loss of fertility may have a large impact.

Potential Future Developments
The potential for efficacy with ICIs across numerous tumour types means
that, for many patients with metastatic disease, the benefit of treatment
outweighs the potential risks. In some tumour types where response rates
are more modest, however, this may not be the case. Patients not represented in clinical trial populations require careful consideration, consent
and monitoring for complications of therapy, to optimise their outcomes.
Declaration of Interest:
Dr Spain has reported no potential conflicts of interest.
Dr Larkin receives institutional research support from Bristol-Myers
Squibb, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Novartis and Pfizer; is a consultant
3.3 Immunotherapy in Special Populations

275

for Eisai, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck Sharp & Dohme, GlaxoSmithKline, Kymab, Pfizer, Novartis, Roche/Genentech, Secarna, Pierre-Fabre
and EUSA Pharma; and receives support from NIHR RM/ICR Biomedical Research Centre for Cancer.
Dr Menzies has participated in advisory boards for Bristol-Myers Squibb,
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Novartis, Roche and Pierre-Fabre.

Further Reading
Balar AV, Galsky MD, Rosenberg JE, et al. Atezolizumab as first-line treatment
in cisplatin-ineligible patients with locally advanced and metastatic urothelial
carcinoma: a single-arm, multicentre, phase 2 trial. Lancet 2017; 389:67–76.
Burke MM, Kluger HM, Golden M, et al. Case report: response to ipilimumab
in a patient with HIV with metastatic melanoma. J Clin Oncol 2011;
29:e792–e794.
Davar D, Wilson M, Pruckner C, Kirkwood JM. PD-1 blockade in advanced
melanoma in patients with hepatitis C and/or HIV. Case Rep Oncol Med
2015; 737389.
El-Khoueiry AB, Sangro B, Yau T, et al. Nivolumab in patients with advanced
hepatocellular carcinoma (CheckMate 040): an open-label, non-comparative,
phase 1/2 dose escalation and expansion trial. Lancet 2017; 389:2492–2502.
Friedman CF, Wolchok JD. Checkpoint inhibition and melanoma: Considerations in treating the older adult. J Geriatr Oncol 2017; 8:237–241.
Guihot A, Marcelin AG, Massiani MA, et al. Drastic decrease of the HIV reservoir in a patient treated with nivolumab for lung cancer. Ann Oncol 2018;
29:517–518.
Gutzmer R, Koop A, Meier F, et al. Programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1)
inhibitor therapy in patients with advanced melanoma and preexisting
autoimmunity or ipilimumab-triggered autoimmunity. Eur J Cancer 2017;
75:24–32.
Johnson DB, Sullivan RJ, Ott PA, et al. Ipilimumab therapy in patients with
advanced melanoma and preexisting autoimmune disorders. JAMA Oncol
2016; 2:234–240.
Kanz BA, Pollack MH, Johnpulle R, et al. Safety and efficacy of anti-PD-1 in
patients with baseline cardiac, renal, or hepatic dysfunction. J Immunother
Cancer 2016; 4:60.
Lipson EJ, Bagnasco SM, Moore J Jr, et al. Tumor regression and allograft rejection after administration of anti-PD-1. N Engl J Med 2016; 374:896–898.

276

Spain et al.

Lipson EJ, Bodell MA, Kraus ES, Sharfman WH. Successful administration of
ipilimumab to two kidney transplantation patients with metastatic melanoma.
J Clin Oncol 2014; 32:e69–e71.
Menzies AM, Johnson DB, Ramanujam S, et al. Anti-PD-1 therapy in patients
with advanced melanoma and preexisting autoimmune disorders or major
toxicity with ipilimumab. Ann Oncol 2017; 8:368–376.
Nishijima TF, Muss HB, Shachar SS, Moschos SJ. Comparison of efficacy of
immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) between younger and older patients:
A systematic review and meta-analysis. Cancer Treat Rev 2016; 45:30–37.
Pollack MH, Betof A, Dearden H, et al. Safety of resuming anti-PD-1 in patients
with immune-related adverse events (irAEs) during combined anti-CTLA-4
and anti-PD1 in metastatic melanoma. Ann Oncol 2018; 29:250–255.
Poulet FM, Wolf JJ, Herzyk DJ, DeGeorge JJ. An evaluation of the impact of
PD-1 pathway blockade on reproductive safety of therapeutic PD-1 inhibitors. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol 2016; 107:108–119.
Rai R, Ezeoke OM, McQuade JL, et al. 1148PD - Immunotherapy in patients
with concurrent solid organ transplant, HIV, and Hepatitis B and C. Ann
Oncol 2017; 28(suppl_5):v403–v427.
Riella LV, Paterson AM, Sharpe AH, Chandraker A. Role of the PD-1 pathway in
the immune response. Am J Transplant 2012; 12:2575–2587.
Spain L, Walls G, Messiou C, et al. Efficacy and toxicity of rechallenge with
combination immune checkpoint blockade in metastatic melanoma: a case
series. Cancer Immunol Immunother 2017; 66:113–117.

3.3 Immunotherapy in Special Populations

277

23

3.4 Cancer Immunotherapy Trials:
Challenges and Opportunities
P. Nathan
Mount Vernon Cancer Centre, Northwood, UK

Introduction
Drug development to treat advanced cancer has, for the most part, followed a similar sequence. Agents that showed promise in preclinical testing were evaluated in first-in-man studies, which historically established
the toxicity profile and identified a recommended dose and schedule for
evaluation in larger scale efficacy-signalling studies. Once an efficacy
signal was established in a single-arm phase II trial, the agent was tested
against currently available standard-of-care in a randomised study to
determine whether it represented an advance in therapeutic options.
Efficacy endpoints in these studies reflect the mechanism of action of
chemotherapeutics and both their expected benefits and limitations
in treating advanced disease. Most chemotherapy (ChT) drugs are not
curative in the palliative (advanced disease) setting. Clinical benefit is
obtained from a period during which tumour growth has been controlled.
There is usually a cytoreductive effect with cytotoxic ChT if the cancer is sensitive to treatment. Internationally accepted response criteria
(RECIST, Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours) were therefore
developed to provide a robust and standardised way of assessing whether
disease was responding to treatment or progressing. Both initial response
rates and duration of response are assessed with RECIST. In randomised
studies, differences in progression-free survival (PFS) are generally
described as the mean – i.e. a single point on the PFS curve. The difference between the whole length of the curves rather than a single point is
best described by the hazard ratio (HR). Overall survival (OS), when able
to be reported, is again frequently described as mean and HR.

278

Because most palliative ChT aims to gain clinically worthwhile periods of
disease control before the inevitable onset of resistance to therapy, these
relatively short-term measurements of efficacy are reasonable. Response
rates give an early readout of efficacy and the mean PFS is (a) a simple
measure that enables cross-trial comparisons, despite the obvious flaws
with the confounders that are present and (b) can be relevant where two
survival curves separate early. Because ultimately all patients treated with
palliative ChT progress, there tends not to be an extended tail on either
the PFS or OS survival curves. However, this methodology may not be
optimal for immunotherapeutic agents. Chapter 3.2 (‘Immune Checkpoint
Blockade: Response Patterns and Assessment of Response’) describes
new approaches to response measurement with modern immunotherapy.
The advent of immunotherapy has presented new challenges regarding
clinical trial design. Immunotherapy is given with the hope of obtaining
long-term durable disease control. Cancers that respond to immunotherapy
appear to find it harder to escape control by an active immune system that
also demonstrates plasticity in response to tumour evolution. Immunotherapy is, however, rarely given in an attempt to gain immediate palliation of
highly symptomatic patients. Tumour cytoreduction is generally required to
acutely palliate patients and, although response rates with modern immunotherapy are far greater than previously seen, there are many situations
where alternative treatment modalities confer higher immediate response
rates and therefore offer superior immediate palliation of symptoms.
Immunotherapy has the potential to induce an immune response that
changes the natural history of metastatic disease. Patients who have
RECIST-defined stable disease induced by immunotherapy may go on to
have durable benefit despite the presence of measurable disease. Radiological imaging reports the presence of a mass and whether the size of
the mass changes over time, but does not report the proportion of live
cancer cells versus the size of immune infiltrate and whether the balance
of these two cellular populations changes over time. It may therefore
be possible to have a response to immunotherapy that has a highly significant impact upon OS not reflected in RECIST response rate. Equally,
because of the possibility that ongoing generation of effective immunity
takes time, PFS endpoints may not be reflective of OS endpoints. At one
3.4 Cancer Immunotherapy Trials: Challenges and Opportunities

279

end of the scale, this may manifest itself as pseudoprogression, where
tumours grow before a delayed response. This is well described but relatively rare with most active immunotherapies. At the other end of the
scale, it may be possible for durable benefit to be obtained with improvement in OS, but without this benefit being reflected with a significant
improvement in PFS endpoints.
Trial design for immunotherapy therefore needs to take account of these
issues.

Lessons from Pre-checkpoint Inhibitor
Immunotherapy
The relatively recent development and introduction of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) into clinical practice followed many years of
negative clinical trials with agents that were far less clinically active.
There are, however, some important lessons that can be learnt from these
studies, which may have implications for contemporary studies. Failed
development was not just because agents were minimally active.
Inferior Experimental Arm Outcome
Many randomised large phase III vaccine studies proved to be negative,
with a non-statistically significant inferiority of the experimental arm.
The implication from these studies is that suboptimal attempts to induce
immunity can induce a poorer clinical outcome. This is not a surprise
from preclinical studies in which induction of anergic T lymphocytes
is well described. However, the implication for clinical development of
vaccines is that an adequately strong efficacy signal needs to be seen
in earlier phase studies before testing in the phase III setting. This is
not always straightforward – single-arm phase II clinical trials can often
perform well against historical controls, and because the relevant clinical
endpoint is durable benefit, response rates may not be instructive. There
is an additional ethical dimension to these trials that potentially has
wider implications. Despite patient information sheets becoming ever
longer and more detailed, the possibility that the experimental treatment
may be inferior to standard treatment is rarely mentioned forcefully.

280

Nathan

Lack of Predictive Biomarkers
Interpretation of efficacy signals in phase II clinical trials was compounded by the lack of predictive biomarkers of clinically relevant
immune responses. Investigators were lulled into the flawed belief that
agents were likely to be clinically active because a number of immunological assays showed significant changes. Immunological assays
were frequently performed on samples from peripheral blood and used
non-tumour-specific measures of immune function, for example Elispot
assays detecting T cell activation by release of interferon (IFN)-γ. This is
an assay of peripheral T cell activation, but it is not a predictive marker
of clinically significant anti-tumour immunity. In the absence of a proven
predictive marker of clinical benefit, immunotherapies which may result
in a prolonged benefit but no increase in response rate (some vaccines
may fall into this category) are difficult to assess in a phase II setting and
may therefore have a higher risk of failing in phase III trials.
Assumptions Regarding Efficacy of Immunotherapy with
High Tumour Burden
In the pre-checkpoint inhibitor immunotherapy era, assumptions were sometimes made regarding the ability of a vaccine to stimulate effective antitumour immunity in a patient with a significant tumour burden and a degree
of immunoparesis due to the presence of advanced disease. Immunotherapy
was therefore felt to be a special case in comparison with conventional treatments. Rather than proving efficacy in the advanced disease setting before
entering into larger scale adjuvant studies, a number of vaccines were tested
in the adjuvant setting with inadequate evidence of activity in the metastatic
setting. Limited evidence of efficacy was explained away with the thought
that agents should be tested in the adjuvant setting where they were perceived
to have a better chance of demonstrating efficacy. In the present era of more
highly active immunotherapeutics, which demonstrate activity in both the
metastatic and adjuvant settings, this flawed thinking should not be repeated.
Trial Design
There is an understandable pressure in drug development to make early
decisions regarding the potential utility of a new agent. This means that
3.4 Cancer Immunotherapy Trials: Challenges and Opportunities

281

early readouts of efficacy such as response rate and median PFS can be
given untoward emphasis. This is particularly inappropriate where a drug
confers significant long-lasting benefit in a minority of patients. If survival curves in a randomised study separate after the mean, potentially
useful agents may fail in development. Longer follow-up would allow
time for improved HR, but this obviously takes precious time. The cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4) inhibitor tremelimumab was
perceived as being inactive in a small randomised phase II trial due to
these issues, whereas ipilimumab succeeded in development following
a larger study with longer follow-up. The tremelimumab development
pathway has been long and tortuous as a result.

Optimising Contemporary Immunotherapy
Clinical Trials
The availability of active drugs with measurable efficacy has resulted
in a sharp rise in confidence in the immunotherapy field. There are now
multiple potential targets demonstrating promise in preclinical studies
that may have clinical utility. Combinations of immunotherapies and
combinations of immunotherapeutics with other modalities are in active
assessment. To facilitate identification of the most promising developments, progress in the following areas would be very helpful.
Biomarker Development
Development of robust biomarkers that are predictive of durable benefit
would facilitate selection of agents in what is an increasingly crowded
field. Early phase clinical trials should have high-quality stringently
applied translational programmes that aim to identify predictive potential biomarkers able to be validated in larger scale studies. The limited
number of centres that usually contribute to early phase studies should
enable high-quality sample collection. Examination of potential markers
should not be limited to those easier assessments in the periphery but
should also include mandated biopsy material from the tumour environment. Assessment of the tumour microenvironment using immunohistochemistry, gene expression profiling and other methodologies has the
potential to identify markers predictive of response to treatment. Care

282

Nathan

should be taken to distinguish between assays that demonstrate a robust
predictive signal of benefit and those that simply reflect that the patient
has been exposed to drug but are not predictive of significant anti-tumour
efficacy. For example, reporting peripheral changes in T cell subsets confirms that some changes in immune parameters are induced by an agent
but not more than that. It is the immunological equivalent of diarrhoea
induced by a tyrosine kinase inhibitor – it demonstrates that the patient
has taken the drug but not whether there is clinical benefit.
Predictive biomarkers allow appropriate selection of patients who are
highly likely to gain durable benefit from treatment, thereby not exposing patients who will not benefit from an inactive and potentially toxic
treatment. They also likely improve the cost effectiveness assessments
performed by some reimbursement authorities. However, the required
robustness of a biomarker that is used in decision-making to withhold a
treatment from a patient is far greater than the requirements of one used
to identify an enriched patient population with a higher chance of experiencing clinical benefit. These issues need to be considered if the risk of
adopting biomarkers that exclude treatment from a group of patients who
would otherwise benefit is to be avoided.
The Challenge of Combination Therapies
It is likely that immune-based future therapies will involve combinations
of agents that result in increased efficacy. Recent breakthroughs have been
with antibodies directed against immune checkpoint molecules. As multiple
checkpoints are identified that have not yet been fully clinically tested as targets, it is likely that they will be tested in combination with clinically proven
checkpoint inhibitors in so-called immuno-oncology (IO)–IO combinations.
There is also justification to assess immunotherapies with non-immune conventional treatments. In melanoma and renal cancer IO-targeted therapy,
combinations are in late-phase clinical trials and there are hypotheses supported by preclinical evidence that such combinations may prove advantageous. However, the attraction of a combination treatment is that it results in
synergistic rather than additive benefit, and most studies are not designed to
distinguish between these two outcomes. This issue is directly related to the
biomarker issue described above. Identification of which patients are likely to
3.4 Cancer Immunotherapy Trials: Challenges and Opportunities

283

benefit from combination treatment as opposed to sequential treatment from
single agents is an important issue that needs to be resolved. The danger in not
doing so is that the speciality acquires combination therapies as a standard-ofcare that are not advantageous but come at greater cost and toxicity.
Duration of Treatment and Toxicity Issues
Significant evidence has now accumulated that durable responses can persist after the withdrawal of treatment either due to toxicity, the demands
of a trial protocol or investigator/patient preference. Clinical trial design
regarding duration of treatment has historically been conservative. With
relatively well tolerated agents, treatment duration has generally been until
disease progression, dose-limiting toxicity or patient preference. If, however, immunotherapy has the potential to induce life-long disease control,
the issue of treatment duration becomes more pressing. There is a natural inclination to not want to undertreat patients, which is understandable.
There may, however, also be a commercial attraction to have long periods
of treatment exposure which, from a clinical perspective, should be resisted.
Trial design should explore duration of treatment at an earlier stage in drug
development. Currently this issue is relegated to exploration by academic
groups following licensing and it can therefore be many years before data
emerge that confirm a limited duration of treatment is all that is necessary.
ICIs are associated with significant immune-mediated organ-specific
toxicity which can, on occasion, be fatal. Current toxicity management
algorithms using high-dose steroid-based regimens safely gain control of
immune-mediated adverse events in the majority of patients. However,
there is a group of patients who have refractory toxicities, and a larger
group that have toxicity controlled at the expense of chronic high-dose
steroid exposure and the associated side effects. There is inadequate
investigation of immune-related toxicity management. Identification of
alternative strategies is important in maintaining quality of life in patients
exposed to these agents.
Response Assessment
Immunotherapy-induced responses can be more complex than those seen
with ChT. There may be mixed responses, with some lesions progress-

284

Nathan

ing and others regressing. Pseudoprogression has also been described
with lesions getting larger before having a delayed response, and finally
new lesions can appear before a delayed response. Concern has therefore
been raised whether RECIST adequately identifies patients who are benefiting from immunotherapy. Modified RECIST criteria, iRECIST, have
been developed to take account of this variability in quality of response.
iRECIST appeared most useful with ipilimumab, a CTLA-4 inhibitor
with low response rates but durable benefit in a minority of patients.
More active immunotherapies have shown that RECIST response rates
are adequate in defining the proportion of patients who have a cytoreductive immune-mediated tumour response. Investigators need to be aware
that post-progression treatment should be allowed if there is evidence of
any lesion responding. RECIST v1.1 is currently the standard methodology for response evaluation. iRECIST is still exploratory. If iRECIST
proves to be clinically useful with further evaluation, it may become a
new standard.

Summary
Immunotherapy represents a new challenge in trial design. The goal of
treatment is to generate long-term durable responses; however, many conventional trial endpoints are relatively short term. A focus on short-term
trial endpoints such as response rate and median PFS may risk missing
active agents that could confer long-term benefit to patients. Landmark
PFS analyses are now frequently described and are likely to be more
representative of the ability of an agent to induce a durable response.
Investigators should consider the value of landmark PFS analyses as a
primary outcome measurement. Such considerations may need to be discussed in advance with licensing authorities depending on the phase of
study being performed.
Because immunotherapies which are now proven to positively impact
upon long-term survival are commercially available, many patients
whose disease progresses following exposure to an investigational agent
may have a subsequent active treatment and some will derive long-term
benefit from exposure. Overall survival endpoints, while frequently being
mandated by licensing and reimbursement authorities, risk increasingly
3.4 Cancer Immunotherapy Trials: Challenges and Opportunities

285

