Color Plates

Figure 1.14 FISH. Interphase nuclei from leukemic cells analyzed with a DNA probe hybridizing to chromosome 7 (red dots) and a DNA probe
recognizing sequences from chromosome 8 (green dots). One nucleus is normal with two copies of each chromosome, whereas one nucleus shows
three green dots indicating trisomy 8, a common chromosomal abnormality in myeloid leukemias including MDS or CLL. Source: Courtesy of
Dr. Martine Jotterand, CHUV, Lausanne. See Page 20.

Tumors

1

2

3

4

etc.

Gene A
1

A
Gene B

B
30 μm

1 cm
...GTTCA... ...AGGTT...

Gene expression (graded reference scale)
High

Low

...CGTAC... ...TCTTG...

Figure 1.15 Gene expression profiling of tumors with cDNA microarrays or “chips.” The chip is a small flat box (upper left), which in a rectangular
chamber contains a siliconized surface loaded with single-strand nucleic acid sequences (lower left). These sequences represent either short, specific
oligonucleotides or cDNA prepared from mRNA of various cells. Specific sequences are neatly arranged in rows and columns and are ready for
hybridization with a sample composed of labeled single-stranded cRNA. A single chip may contain up to several 10,000 such sequences (representing
genes, or so-called expressed sequence tags ESTs). After hybridization the chip surface can be read and the results expressed as quantitative estimates
of gene expression, with respect to a scale of reference (bottom center). In this example mRNA from tumor 1 has been examined with the help of
the chip. Gene A is overexpressed in this sample, and gene B is not expressed at all. Tumor 3 shows the reverse gene expression pattern, and the
other samples all show distinct gene expression profiles. These raw data are then sorted with a number of strategies. Unsupervised clustering (explained
in a terribly simplified fashion!) refers to a program that groups tumor samples according to similar or completely distinct expression profiles. In
supervised clustering, additional information on the samples is fed in before sorting, for example, some clinical information. In the end, a limited
number of genes can be pulled from such profiles which distinguish one tumor subgroup from another. See Page 22.
ix

x

Color Plates

Tumor samples
35 36 37 38 39 40 ...

etc.

Cured

1 2 3 4 5 6 ...

Genes

9 10 11 12 13 14 15

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 ......

t

Gene expression (graded reference scale)
High

Low

Figure 1.16 Microarray analysis of DLBCL. About one-half of patients with DLBCL are cured with CHOP-type chemotherapies and the other half
relapse and often succumb to their disease. Although a number of clinicopathological parameters are available to create prognostic subgroups (International Prognostic Index), clinical and pathological information is inadequate for a neat distinction of these two subgroups. In this example, cases
either cured or with an eventually fatal outcome were studied for their gene expression profiles. It turns out that DLBCL with a good prognosis displays
a gene expression signature that is clearly different from the profile that lights up in lymphoma cells from eventually fatal cases. Although the microarrays used in this experiments offered thousands of genes for analysis, a neat prognostic distinction of the two clinical DLBCL subgroups can
be made with a restricted and selected group of genes (horizontal rows), in fact no more than 15 genes. Source: Modified after Ref. 68.
See Page 23.

Marker genes
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 .........

42 43 44 45 etc.

Meta <5 yrs.

Gene expression: High

Good

40 41 42 43 44 etc.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 .......

No meta >5 yrs.

Tumor samples

Clinical course

Prognosis

Adverse
Low

Figure 1.17 cDNA microchip analysis (so-called supervised classification on prognosis gene expression signatures) of samples from women with
early node-negative breast cancer. In this example, tumor tissue samples from women with T1-2 N0 stage early breast cancer were analyzed with
microarrays. For data analysis, cases were split: those who remained disease-free for at least 5 years and those who relapsed within 5 years after
diagnosis and primary treatment (so-called supervised clustering analysis of chip data). The established clinical and biological prognostic parameters
in breast cancer (T stage, N stage, receptor status, etc.) did not permit prediction with any accuracy as to which women would remain disease-free or
relapse. In the molecular analysis, genes have been ordered according to their correlation with the two clinical prognostic patient groups. The microchip
analysis lights up gene expression profiles that clearly differ between tumors treated successfully and those cases that had relapsed within 5 years
after diagnosis. In women with no evidence of metastases after 5 years of follow-up, genes with low expression cluster to the upper left of the panel
(lighting up in green), and overexpressed genes (depicted in red) are grouped in the upper right sector of the panel. The reverse pattern or expression
profile is seen in the group of women who had relapsed. Source: Modified after Ref. 69. See Page 24.

Color Plates

ER

VEGF

HER 2

xi

P53

Figure 1.18 Immunohistochemical analysis of gene expression in breast cancer. Invasive-ductal breast cancer sections staining with diagnostic
antibodies recognizing (from left to right) estrogen receptors (nuclear; ER), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), HER2 (membrane bound), and
p53 (nuclear). The section stained with p53 also shows noninvasive ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS; right). The stromal cells in between the tumor
cells are mostly negative. Source: Courtesy of Prof. H.J. Altermann, Pathologie Länggasse, Berne. See Page 24.

Figure 3.7

Typical example of EGFR inhibitor induced skin rash. See Page 46.

I
II

III
VI
V
IV
VII

Figure 7.3

Lymph node regions in the head and neck. See Page on 127.

xii

Color Plates

(A)

IL13 / IL13 R
IL9 / IL9R
IL6 / IL6R
TNFα/ TNFαR
Notch1 / Jagged 1

EpsteinBarr virus
Th2
Treg

LMP-1

Eosinophil
CD30L

RANK/ RANKL
↑NF-κΒ

CD40L

CD30
Mast cell

CD40
IL9,
CCL5

TARC,
Galectin 1

TNFα

PD1L
PD1

TNFα
↑NF-κΒ

Th1
IL10
TGF-Β
Immuno suppression
fibrosis
(B)

Eotaxin

TNFαR
Fibroblast

CSF-1
Macrophage

Figure 14.1 Hodgkin Reed-Sternberg cell
and its microenvironment: (A) interactions
that result in immunosuppression and favor
survival; (B) photomicrography. Abbreviations: IL13, Interleukin-13; IL13R, Interleukin-13 receptor; IL9, Interleukin-9; IL9R,
Interleukin-9 receptor; IL6, Interleukin-6; IL6R,
Interleukin-6 receptor; NF-κB, Nuclear Factor
kappa B; RANK, receptor activator for NFκB;
LMP, latent membrane protein; TARC, thymus
and activation regulated chemokine; PD1,
programmed death-1; TGF-B, transforming
growth factor beta; CSF, colony stimuating
factor; TNF, tumor necrosis factor; CCL5 also
known as RANTES (regulated on activation,
normal T-cell expressed and secreted). See
Page on 264.

(A)

Figure 22.6 (A) Immunohistochemistry, colon tumor block stained with
antibodies to hMSH2 showing loss of nuclear staining in tumor tissue and
normal (brown) staining in stromal cells. See Page on 387.

1
Molecular Biology of Cancer
Martin F. Fey

As that cell and its progeny continue to proliferate in a
clonal fashion, daughter cells will subsequently acquire
additional mutations, and will grab yet new selection advantages such as proliferative drive, escape from cell death
programs (apoptosis), etc. Such cells would establish subclones which may in turn become parent clones themselves.
Therefore clonality assessment provides a snapshot of the
clonal composition of a tumor at the time of analysis, but
the clonal composition of neoplasms may change over time
as tumors progress.

INTRODUCTION
Research into the molecular and cellular biology of cancer
has given us remarkable insights into the molecular basis of
neoplasia, such as disordered cell proliferation, disturbed
differentiation, and altered cell survival as well as disruption
of normal tissue, invasion, and metastasis. Human cancer
results mostly from gene mutations in its cells of origin
which confer a biological advantage to these cells. Today,
knowledge about molecular mechanisms of carcinogenesis
has become far more than just a playground for experimental biology. Molecular markers are now available for
improving cancer diagnosis and classification. At the therapeutic level, the identification of aberrant molecular pathways in cancer cells provides the basis for molecularly
targeted therapy. It is, therefore, essential for clinicians
caring for cancer patients to understand the molecular and
cellular basis of neoplasia.

Cancer Stem Cells
The recent concept of cancer stem cells adds significant
information to the established principles of the origin of a
clonal tumor. One assumes that mutations leading to cancer would occur in rare cells that are long-term residents
in the respective tissue, for example, in colon mucosa or
in the bone marrow. To become a “mother cell” of a tumor,
a mutated cell would not only have to proliferate and
expand clonally, but it also needs to self-renew and acquire
additional mutations. Cancer would thus originate from
long-lived uncommon tissue stem cells with the ability for
self-renewal, that is, a typical feature of a stem cell. When
mutated, such a cell becomes a cancer stem cell. The quiescence of these cells and their inherent resistance to drugs
may account for a considerable amount of treatment failures
in clinical oncology. Stem cells including cancer stem cells
tend to be more resistant to cytostatic drugs, radiation, and
perhaps to some of the “newer” targeted agents than more
mature (cancer) cells from the same clone or tissue. Ideally,
cancer treatment would have to target cancer stem cells while
sparing normal stem cells within the body’s tissues (4–6).
Normal colonic mucosa and colon cancer provide a
good example of our yet incomplete notion of how cancer
stem cells may play a role in tumorigenesis. Colonic epithelium is replaced every 5 days. Stem cells are thought to
reside at the bottom of colon crypts where they are responsible for tissue renewal. During asymmetric division, colon
stem cells undergo self-renewal and generate cells that
migrate up the crypt and differentiate to form specific cell
types in colon mucosa. Colon stem cells therefore must harbor the genetic programs that determine the structure and
function of the specific regions or sections in the gut. There
is evidence to support the notion that these cells, when they
develop critical gene mutations, may turn into colon cancer
stem cells yielding cancers with multiple differentiated cell
types. Mutations in the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC)
gene placed on chromosome 5 may be an early event in

CLONAL CELLULAR ORIGIN AND THE SOMATIC
MUTATION THEORY OF CANCER CELLS
Somatic Mutation Theory of Cancer and
Tumor Clonality
A clone is defined as a population of cells derived through
mitotic division from a single somatic cell of origin. This
definition neither implies that a clonal population of cells
must necessarily be genetically or phenotypically homogeneous nor does it infer that a cell clone must be cancerous
(1). Initially, cancer arises from a single somatic cell present
in normal tissue, which during mitosis acquires gene mutations (somatic mutations) suitable for turning it into an early
founder cell of a clonal tumor (Fig. 1.1). Such mutations
need to provide a biological advantage to that cell and its
progeny as otherwise clonal expansion would not occur.
A mutation knocking out a gene that is absolutely essential
for the function of the cell is likely to kill it rather than turn
it into a founder cell of a cancer clone. A totally innocuous
mutation in a gene of no interest to a particular cell would
fail to alter its biological behavior, and thus, it provides no
basis for neoplastic transformation. It turns out that most
gene mutations that succeed in driving a cell into a neoplastic transformation severely alter cell proliferation, cell
differentiation, cell survival, and other vital functions.
A single gene mutation is not enough to found a
tumor. Rather, molecular carcinogenesis requires a sequential series of different yet linked mutational hits in at least
two or more critical genes in the same cell (Fig. 1.2) (2,3).
1

2

Section I: General Principles

defined to provide targets for therapeutic intervention that
would hit “at the heart of the matter.” A number of molecular pathways are particularly active in cancer stem cells.
For example, the nuclear factor κ B (NFκB) pathway is
constitutively active in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) stem
cells but silent in normal hematopoietic stem cells, rendering the former selectively susceptible to drugs that would
interfere with this pathway (6,7).

The Clinical Relevance of Assessing Tumor Clonality
Multi-step
accumulation of
somatic mutations
in carcinogenesis

Figure 1.1 The somatic mutation theory of cancer. At mitosis a cell
may acquire a somatic mutation (solidline) conferring a selection
advantage over other cells. This provides the basis for clonal expansion
of that cell and its progeny. Some of its daughter cells may acquire yet
other somatic mutations (dottedlines) providing additional selection
advantages. In the end, cancer presents as a clonal tumor composed
of related yet distinct subclones. This concept neatly incorporates the
more recent data on the role of cancer stem cells as the earliest
precursor cells of many if not all tumors.

this chain of events (Fig. 1.2). Mutant APC may lead to an
increased rate of crypt fission, crypt branching, and budding
and thus pave the way to the development of adenomas,
morphologically recognizable forerunners of invasive colon
cancer (5).
Stem cell biology is best characterized in the hematopoietic system. Cancer stem cells are evident in leukemia, for
example, in chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). The
ABL kinase inhibitor imatinib mesylate in CML has provided a radically new approach of a targeted “molecular”
therapy against a human cancer. Nevertheless, residual
disease may persist after CML treatment even in complete
responders. In vitro studies indicate that although inhibition
of the BCR-ABL kinase may kill most cells within a CML
clone, it does not appear to affect CML stem cells. The unique
molecular features of cancer stem cells must therefore be

Chromosome 5
gene
Normal
colon cell

Assessment of tumor clonality at the molecular level is
usually not necessary as a routine diagnostic procedure.
The histological diagnosis of breast or colorectal cancer, for
example, is usually very accurate, and formal proof that a
given tumor is clonal (as invariably it will be) is not necessary. However, in selected instances, assessment of the
clonal composition of cellular proliferations in biopsy material may be of direct practical importance.
The diagnosis of lymphoid neoplasms and lymphoproliferative syndromes is routinely based on morphology,
immunohistochemistry, and immunophenotyping. These
techniques will succeed in establishing the precise diagnosis of a clonal lymphoid neoplasm of either B- or T-cell
origin in perhaps 90–95% of all cases. However, molecular
analysis of clonality may be helpful in the remaining rare
cases where morphology and related techniques fail to
distinguish a neoplastic clonal population of lymphoid cells
from a reactive polyclonal assembly of lymphoid elements,
as seen in an inflammatory infiltrate. This is particularly
troublesome for T-cell proliferations (5–7% of all lymphoid
malignancies), or natural killer cell tumors (<2%) where no
reliable immunohistochemical markers of clonality are available. Clonal antigen receptor gene rearrangements are wellestablished clonal markers in the vast majority of B- or
T-cell neoplasms, and their absence in a lymphoproliferation would strongly support the presence of a polyclonal
and hence reactive process (8–10). The detection of a clonal
cell population derived from either B- or T-cell lineage is
almost always abnormal and often associated with a malignant neoplastic proliferation (Fig. 1.3).
The germline immunoglobulin (Ig) and T-cell receptor (TCR) gene loci contain many different variable (V),
diversity (D), and joining (J) gene segments, which are

DNA loses
Chromosome 17 Other
methyl groups
loss
Ras gene Chromosome 18
chromosome
mutation
loss
losses

Increased
cell growth

Adenoma
l

Adenoma
ll

Adenoma
lll

Carcinoma

Metastasis

Figure 1.2 Colon cancer—a model disorder for stepwise accumulation of somatic mutations. The morphological cascade leading from normal
colonic mucosa to advanced colon cancer is governed by stepwise accumulation of somatic mutations in many different genes. The gene on chromosome
5 known as the adenomatous polyposis coli/familial adenomatous polyposis (APC/FAP) tumor suppressor gene is an early gatekeeper in colorectal
carcinogenesis, possibly at the colon crypt (cancer) stem cell level. The gene lost on chromosome 18q is the SMAD4 gene, encoding a protein involved
in the transforming growth factor β (TGFβ) signaling pathway, which normally provides a growth-inhibiting differentiation signal to the cell. The gene
deleted on chromosome 17 is the p53 tumor suppressor gene. The order in which these somatic mutations hit the cells and their composition may
vary between individual cases.

Chapter 1:

Vβ1 Vβ2 Vβ3 Vβ4 Vβ5

Vαn

Vβ4
Dβ2
Jβ2.3

Jαn
Cα
CD3
ε CD3
δ

Cβ2

Vβn

Jβ1
Dβ1 1 2 3 4 5 6 Cβ1

J rearrangement

V

D-J rearrangement

Coding joints

Transcription
Precursor mRNA
RNA splicing
Translation

CD3 CD3
ζ
ζ

rearranged during early lymphoid differentiation. V–D–J
rearrangements are mediated via a recombinase enzyme
complex where proteins called RAG1 and RAG2 play a key
role by recognizing and cutting the DNA at recombination
signal sequences located downstream of the V gene segments, at both sides of the D gene segments, and upstream
of the J gene segments. Functionally rearranged Ig and
TCR genes result in surface membrane expression of Ig,
TCRαβ or TCRγδ molecules.
The detection of single Ig light-chain protein expression in a lymphoproliferation (Igκ or Igλ, but not both) has
long been used to discriminate between reactive (polyclonal) B lymphocytes (normal Igκ or Igλ ratio: 0.7–2.8)
versus aberrant (clonal) B lymphocytes with Igκ or Igλ
ratios of >4.0 or <0.5. In the vast majority of mature B-cell
malignancies, single Ig light-chain expression can support
the clonal origin of the malignancy. The same principle,
however, is not readily applicable to T-cell lymphoproliferations, particularly if suspect lymphoproliferative disorders are intermixed with normal (reactive) lymphocytes.
In contrast to the antibody-based techniques, molecular techniques are broadly applicable for the detection of
clonally rearranged Ig/TCR genes. Their detection by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) requires precise knowledge of
the rearranged antigen receptor gene segments in order to
design appropriate primers at opposite sides of the junctional regions. In routine PCR-based clonality studies, the
distance between the primers should be <1 kb, preferably
<500 bp, and in formalin-fixed tissues where DNA is much
degraded, preferably <300 bp. This is particularly important to discriminate between PCR products from monoclonal versus polyclonal Ig/TCR gene rearrangements. The
main advantages of PCR techniques are their speed, the low
amounts of DNA required, the possibility to use DNA of
lower quality, and the relatively good sensitivity of 1–5%.
Consequently, PCR techniques allow the use of small biopsies (e.g., fine-needle aspiration biopsies) or of formaldehydefixed paraffin-embedded archival material with low-quality
DNA, that is partly degraded into small fragments.

3

Jβ2
Dβ2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Cβ2

D

CD3
CD3 ε
γ

Molecular Biology of Cancer

Figure 1.3 Antigen receptor gene rearrangement. Schematic diagram of sequential
rearrangement steps, transcription, and translation of the TCRβ gene as an example. In this
example, first a Dβ2 to Jβ2.3 rearrangement
occurs, followed by a Vβ4 to Dβ2–Jβ2.3 rearrangement, resulting in the formation of a
Vβ4–Dβ2–Jβ2.3 coding joint (VDJ joining).
The rearranged TCRβgene is transcribed into
precursor mRNA, spliced into mature TCRβ
mRNA, and finally translated into a TCRβ protein chain. The two extrachromosomal TRECs
that are formed during this recombination
process are indicated as well; they contain the
D–J signal joint and V–D signal joint, respectively. Source: Adapted from Ref. 8.

Although molecular clonality studies can be highly
informative, several limitations and pitfalls might hamper
the interpretation of the results:
• Ig and TCR gene rearrangements are not necessarily
restricted to B- and T-cell lineages, respectively. Crosslineage TCR gene rearrangements occur relatively frequently in immature B-cell malignancies, not only in
precursor B-ALL (>90% of cases), but also in AMLs, and
mature B-cell malignancies might contain TCR gene
rearrangements.
• Reactive lymph nodes can show reduced diversity of
the Ig/TCR gene repertoire caused by predominance of
several antigen-selected subclones (oligoclonality). In particular, lymph nodes or blood samples of patients with
an active EBV or CMV infection can show a restricted
TCR repertoire or TCR gene oligoclonality. Also, immunosuppression is frequently associated with restricted
TCR repertoires, for example, in transplant patients.
Recovery from transplantation and hematological remission are followed by restoration of the polyclonal TCR
repertoire.
• False-positive PCR results are a problem, if no adequate
analysis of the obtained PCR products is performed to
discriminate between monoclonal, oligoclonal, or polyclonal PCR products. False-negative results occur because
of improper annealing of the applied PCR primers to
the rearranged gene segments. First, precise detection
of all different V, D, and J gene segments would require
many different primers, which is practical. Consequently,
family primers, which specifically recognize most or all
members of a particular V, D, or J family, or consensus
primers are designed, which recognize virtually all V
and J gene segments of the locus under study. Family
primers and consensus primers are optimal for a part of
the relevant Ig/TCR gene segments, but show a lower
homology to others. This may eventually lead to falsenegative results, particularly in Ig/TCR genes with many
different gene segments. The second problem is somatic

4

Section I: General Principles

hypermutations in rearranged Ig genes of germinal center and postgerminal center B-cell malignancies.
• Clonality does not as such imply malignancy. This
applies to B- or T-cell proliferations in immunodeficiency
syndromes, such as in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections or patients with congenital immunodeficiency. In organ transplant recipients,
clonal B-cell lymphoproliferations might develop and
often regress upon withdrawal of immunosuppression.
B-cell clones have also been reported in autoimmune
diseases, such as in Sjögren’s syndrome. Finally, benign
monoclonal gammopathies are sometimes associated
with clonal B-cell proliferations. Benign clonal T-cell
proliferations may be seen in a variety of benign cutaneous diseases.

words are called codons composed of three letters or nucleotides each. Each codon encodes either an amino acid and/
or specifies a function such as a start signal or a stop signal for transcription. Any alteration in the order of these

(A) Point polymorphisms(creating2 allelesat a givenlocus)

Restriction enzyme cutting site: present or absent
(B) Variable number of tandem repeat (VNTR) minisatellites

(C) Microsatellites

In a number of tumors, clonality analysis helps to
clarify the molecular pathology of a disorder, although it
is not necessary in clinical practice.
• Analysis of Ig gene rearrangement patterns in Reed–
Sternberg cells isolated from nodular lymphocytepredominant Hodgkin’s lymphoma suggested that this
particular lymphoma is a monoclonal extension of B
cells, particularly germinal-center B cells at the centroblastic stage of differentiation (11).
• Sequential analysis of Ig or TCR gene rearrangement
patterns permits to trace the clonal evolution of a lymphoma over time. Examples are the clonal relationship
between chronic B-cell lymphocytic leukemia and secondary high grade B-cell lymphoma in Richter’s syndrome, or follicular lymphoma with transformation into
a secondary high-grade lymphoma (12).
• In patients with head and neck cancer, solitary lung
nodules composed of squamous cell carcinoma may
either represent a new primary tumor or metastases.
Obviously in such tumors no antigen receptor gene rearrangements can be expected. Analysis of tumor-specific
genetic alterations was, therefore, performed with the
help of polymorphic microsatellite markers that may discern such clonal relationships (Fig. 1.4). It appears that
solitary nodules of squamous cell carcinoma in the lung
in patients with known head and neck cancers are more
likely to represent a metastasis than an independent
lung cancer (13,14). Likewise, microsatellite analysis
could be applied to any patient with multiple tumors
where clonal tumor relationships are not clear on clinical, radiological, or histological grounds.
In summary, the vast majority of tumors seen in our
patients are of clonal origin, which is of course in perfect
accordance with the somatic mutation theory of cancer.
Assessment of clonality may occasionally be useful in cancer diagnostics, particularly molecular immunogenotyping
of lymphoproliferative lesions where the distinction between
polyclonal/reactive and clonal/neoplastic processes might
otherwise be difficult or impossible.

Types of Gene Mutations Seen in Cancer
Genetic information is contained in double-stranded DNA
(Fig. 1.5). Genes are transcribed into mRNA and eventually
the encoded protein is produced. In the molecular alphabet

CACACACACACACACACACA
CACACACACACACA
CACACACACACACACACACACACACACACA

(D) Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)
T
GAGTCTGCGCGCTATCAGGCCTGTGTCCATAGTT
AAGTCTGCGCGCTATTAGGCCTGTGTCCATAGTC
C

Figure 1.4 DNA polymorphisms. DNA polymorphisms are variations
in the nucleotide sequence of DNA. Most of them are functionally silent.
Polymorphic alleles are present in the constitutional DNA of each
individual and passed on in the germline to the progeny. DNA
polymorphisms are widely used genetic markers tagging particular allelic
chromosomal regions similar to signposts along roads or motorways.
Several different types of DNA polymorphisms are illustrated in this
figure where DNA fragments are schematically illustrated as bars.
(a) Point polymorphisms are created through variations in the DNA
sequence that form new restriction enzyme sites (drak gray circle) or
destroy a preexisting cutting site (restriction fragment length
polymorphisms, RFLP). The length of a DNA fragment is, therefore,
defined through the spacing between two specific enzyme-cutting sites.
This type of polymorphism is called a bimorphism as only two alleles
are possible (a longer and a shorter one). Although popular for genetic
analyses in the early days of genetics, this type of polymorphism has
lost much of its importance for molecular genetic diagnostics. (b) The
length of a DNA fragment may be determined by insertion of variable
numbers (VN) of tandem repeats (TR) or minisatellites. Minisatellites are
composed of short nucleotide sequence blocks (perhaps 20mer to
30mer of length) that are aligned one after another as repeat motifs
(drak gray triangles). This polymorphism may, thus, create many different
alleles in a population depending on the number of TR inserted. A given
individual may of course only harbor two alleles in a diploid set of
chromosomes, one inherited by the father and one inherited by the
mother. (c) Microsatellites have become a most widely used type of
polymorphism. Similar to VNTR, microsatellites are composed of variable
numbers of short nucleotide repeat units, for example, dinucleotides
(CACACA in this example), or trinucleotides. Their numbers determine
the length of PCR fragments amplified through specific primers placed
at sequences flanking the repeat units. Many different alleles may occur
in a given population.(d) Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs,
pronounced “snips”) are variations in single base pairs of the DNA that
change from one chromosome to the other. There are about 3 million
SNPs randomly distributed throughout the genome, which represent
90% of all variations in the human genome. SNPs are nowadays among
the most widely used markers, particularly because SNP patterns can
now be investigated very efficiently with microchips (“snip chips”) that
cover most of the genome with a marker density of 300–1000 bp. A
SNP profile can distinguish patients who would otherwise be
indistinguishable, for example, by linking the polymorphism to the fact
of whether a patient tolerates a drug or not for genetic reasons.

G

Chapter 1:

T
G G A G

T T C

G G A A A T T C G G

G

C C C T T T A A C C CC

T

A
A
C

Figure 1.5 Nucleic acid hybridization. Two single strands of nucleic
acids may form a stable double-strand through base-pairing provided
their nucleotide sequences are complementary. In the genetic code the
purine base adenine (A) can only form bonds with the pyrimidine base
thymine (T) in DNA or uracil in RNA, and the purine base guanine (G)
can only team up with the pyrimidine base cytosine (C). Bonds between
G and T or A and C (left part) are not possible. Much of molecular
biology really boils down to the simple finding that two single strands
of nucleic acids may bind to each other very specifically provided their
nucleotide sequences (the molecular alphabet) are complementary. This
is a fundamental principle of molecular biology which you ought to
remember when you struggle with the PCR and other molecular
diagnostic tests, or when you are lost in the jungle of gene mutations,
DNA mismatch repair, etc.

nucleotides may scramble the genetic code. This is relevant
since cancer is essentially a molecular disorder of cells and
their genes. The somatic mutation theory of cancer predicts
that gene mutations are crucial in carcinogenesis, because
genetic mutations may activate genes inappropriately or
inactivate genes which are needed in the normal life of a
cell. Somatic mutations are acquired at mitosis whereas
germline gene mutations are passed on to an individual
from a parent or occur de novo at meiosis.
A survey of the diverse types of gene mutations encountered in cancer, and examples of how they disturb gene
function is assembled in Table 1.1. It displays a message
written according to the principles of the genetic code
where each “letter,” that is, an amino acid in a protein chain
or a genetic function, is represented by a nucleotide triplet
in the DNA sequence. Various types of DNA mutations
altering the message are indicated in the corresponding
column and classified as to whether they represent “activating” mutations (i.e., mutations that lead to inappropriate activity of the gene) or “inactivating” mutations (i.e.,
silencing the gene). Additional molecular mechanisms that
are not presented in Table 1.1 are the following:
Telomeres, the physical ends of linear chromosomes
cannot be fully replicated by “conventional” DNA polymerases. In the absence of a specialized replication mode
for the chromosomal tips, a chromosome would lose telomere repeats with each cell division. An enzyme complex,
telomerase is able to compensate such telomere loss by adding appropriate nucleotides to chromosomal 3′ ends. In
most human somatic cells, telomerase activity is repressed,
whereas in the vast majority of human tumors, telomerase
is reactivated. Therefore, an attractive approach to cancer
therapy could be the inhibition of telomerase in tumor cells
to shorten their survival, perhaps with little deleterious
effect on most normal cells. The precise impact on differences
between telomerase activity in human normal and cancer

Molecular Biology of Cancer

5

cells is still controversial, but the connection between telomerase activity and human carcinogenesis is intriguing (15).
A new molecular principle has recently been discovered in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). CLL often
shows deletions in chromosome 13q, but no classical tumor
suppressor genes were found at this locus. Instead, a cluster of two microRNA genes, MIRN15A and MIRN16-1, is
located exactly inside the minimal region of genetic loss at
13q14, and both genes are deleted or downregulated in the
majority of 13q- CLL samples (16). MicroRNAs are small
noncoding RNA molecules distinct from but related to small
interfering RNAs (siRNAs). These small 19–24-nucleotide
(nt) RNAs are transcribed as parts of longer molecules
named pri-miRNA, several kilobases (kb) in length, that
are processed in the nucleus into hairpin RNAs of named
pre-miRNA by double-stranded RNA-specific ribonuclease.
The hairpin RNAs are transported to the cytoplasm, where
they are digested by a second double-stranded RNA-specific
ribonuclease. In animals, single-stranded microRNA binds
specific messenger RNA (mRNA) through sequences that
are significantly, though not completely, complementary to
the target mRNA, mainly to the 3′ untranslated region.
Bound mRNA remains untranslated, resulting in reduced
levels of the corresponding protein. Alternatively, in some
case, bound mRNA can be degraded, resulting in reduced
levels of both the corresponding transcript and the protein.
Today the number of microRNAs, including those electronically cloned, is growing fast. Current collective evidence
strongly indicates a role for microRNAs in hematological
cancers and solid tumors.
Patients with a myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) with
deletion of chromosome 5q (the 5q- syndrome) have severe
macrocytic anemia, normal or elevated platelet counts, normal or reduced neutrophil counts, erythroid hypoplasia in
the bone marrow, and hypolobated micromegakaryocytes.
They may progress to AML, although more slowly than other
forms of MDS. The 5q- MDS shows a remarkable response
to treatment with the thalidomide analogue lenalidomide.
Patients with 5q- MDS do not have biallelic gene deletions
within a common deleted region (CDR) on 5q and no point
mutations. Rather the 5q- syndrome is caused by protein
haplo-insufficiency, which is a loss of only one allele at a given
locus, implicating reduced protein expression from the
remaining single allele, that is, a reduction in gene dosage
(17). Partial loss of function, or haplo-insufficiency of a gene
called RPS14 recapitulates the phenotype of the 5q- syndrome, that is, an erythroid maturation block with preservation of megakaryocyte differentiation. Decreased expression
of RPS14, a component of the 40S ribosomal subunit,
results in an accumulation of the 30S pre-rRNA species
with a concomitant decrease in 18S/18SE rRNA levels,
which is consistent with reports that RPS14 is specifically
required for the processing of 18S pre-rRNA.

CHROMOSOMAL TRANSLOCATIONS IN HEMATOLOGICAL
MALIGNANCIES AND SARCOMAS
A chromosomal translocation creating the Philadelphia (Phi)
chromosome was the first clonal karyotype abnormality or
marker chromosome firmly linked to a human cancer,
CML (Fig. 1.6a). Ever since this observation was made in
1960 by Nowell and Hungerford in Philadelphia (hence its

6

Section I: General Principles

Table 1.1 Types of Gene Mutations Seen in Malignant Tumors
You have discovered mice in your kitchen which you would like to eliminate. In analogy to the genetic code, you write up a call for help (the message)
using three-letter words (to mimic codons or nucleotide triplets in the genetic code). The start of the message is indicated by the triplet AUG, the
universal initiation codon of transcription. One of the three triplets UAA or UAG or UGA (stop codons in the genetic code) indicates where the
message stops, similar to a period in writing
DNA wild (i.e., normal) type sequence

Description

Comments

5′ AUG HUE AND CRY AND GET THE CAT UAA 3′

Wild type DNA sequence
or message

AUG is the universal initiation codon of transcription
UAA/UAG/UGA are stop codons

Point mutation

Altered, but still functional message
Example
ras gene point mutation in AML
Missense mutation. Gene inactivation
Missense mutation. Gene inactivation

DNA sequence alterations seen in cancer
5′ AUG HUE AND CRY AND GET THE BAT UAA 3′
AUG HUE AND CRY AND GET THE RAT UAA
AUG HUE AND CRY AND FRY THE CAT UAA
AUG HUE AND CRY ANDGE TTH ECA TUA A

AUG HUE AND CRY AND GET THE CAT UAA

AUG HUE AND CRY UAA AND GET THE CAT UAA

1) AUG HUE AND CRY AND GET THE MAT UAA
2) AUG HUE AND CRY AND GET THE CAT UAA
A) AUG HUE AND CRY AND GET THE CAT UAA
B) AUG AND PUT THE DOG OUT UAA
A-B)
AUG HUE AND CRY AND PUT THE DOG
OUT UAA
GET THE CAT
GET THE CAT
GET THE CAT
AUG HUE AND CRY AND GET THE CAT UAA
GET THE CAT
GET THE CAT
GET THE CAT
AUG HUE AND CRY AND GET THE CAT AND GET
THE CAT UAA

AUG HUE AND CRY AND GET THE CAT
UAA Message copies in cells with deficient
DNA mismatch repair mechanisms:
AUG HUE AND CRY AND PET THE CAT UAA
AUG SUE (AND CRY AND GET) THE CAT UAA
AUG HUE AND CRY AND GET HUM PTY DUM PTY
UAA
CmethpG CmethpG CmethpG AUG HUE AND CRY AND
GET THE CAT UAA
CmethpG CmethpG CmethpG AUG HUE AND CRY AND
GET THE CAT UAA

Point mutation
Substitution of one codon
for another
Deletion of more or fewer
than three nucleotides

Frameshift mutation throwing the 3′ part of the message out of
context. Insertion of extra nucleotides (more or fewer than
three) into a codon yields a similar problem. Gene inactivation
Example
NPM mutation in AML
Deletion
Range of deletion may be between loss of a few nucleotides and
loss of an entire chromosome. Loss of function
Example
Normal allele in tumor suppressor genes, for example p53
Premature insertion of stop Truncated or abolished message. Gene inactivation.
codon
Example
FAP gene mutation in familial ade- nomatous polyposis colon
cancer
Point mutation on allele 1; Typical mutational pattern of a classical tumour suppressor gene.
Deletion of wild type
LOH = loss of heterozygosity due to loss of allele 2
Example
message in allele 2
p53 tumor suppressor gene
(LOH)
Messages A and B from
Chromosomal translocation producing a fusion gene composed of
different genes
parts from gene A and B. Altered message with new meaning.
Example
BCR-ABL fusion gene in CML
A-B fusion gene/message
Gene amplification

Increase in allelic copy number of a gene or a part thereof,
mostly leading to inappropriate overexpression of the protein.
Gain of function
Example
HER2/neu in breast cancer

Internal tandem duplication Partial duplication of message or parts thereof within a gene.
of an exon or genetic
Gene activation
material in a gene
Example
Internal tandem duplication of the FLT3 gene in AML
Deficient DNA mismatch
Mutations in DNA mismatch repair genes may contribute to
repair genes
genetic instability and lead to errors at DNA copying
throughout the genome
Example
Replication-error-positive (RER+) tumors, for example hereditary
non-polypo¬sis colon cancer (HNPCC) syndrome

Hypermethylation of C
residues in CpG rich
sequences

name), the characterization of chromosomal translocations
has given us remarkable insights into both the molecular
pathology of many different hematological neoplasms as
well as unprecedented knowledge about the contribution

Hypermethylation of cytosine C residues (often in CG-rich
sequences, so-called CpG islands) in or near a gene (e.g., in
the promoter) can shut off or activate a gene

of many genes to normal cellular physiology (18–20). Chromosomal translocations creating fusion genes occur regularly in many (but not all) leukemias as well as in a
variety of sarcomas including small round cell tumors

Chapter 1:

1

2

3

6

7

8

13

14

15

19

20

9

21

22

4

5

10

11

12

16

17

18

M

1 2

Molecular Biology of Cancer

7

3 N

808 bp
Normal bcr transcript
481 bp e1a2 Ph+ ALL transcript
385 bp b3a2 CML transcript

xx

(A)
481 bp
e1a2
e1

2

3

4
385 bp

b3a2
e1

e2

b1 b2 b3 2
e12

3

4

808 bp

bcr
e1

e2

b1 b2 b3 b4
e12

b4

c1
e17

c2

e21 e22 e23

(B)

Figure 1.6 Chromosomal translocations—the Philadelphia chromosome in CML at the chromosome and molecular level. (a) A karyotype is prepared
from cultured leukemic cells of a female CML patient (XX). In the mitotic figures, the individual chromosomes can be identified. Chromosomes are
numbered according to their size (No. 1 is the longest chromosome in the human karyotype, No. 22 the shortest one). Each chromosome shows a
typical banding pattern seen on light microscopy. The small abnormal chromosome to the right of the normal chromosome 22 (red arrow) represents
the Philadelphia chromosome composed from parts of chromosome 9 and chromosome 22. As this translocation is reciprocal, a second abnormal
chromosome (where parts from chromosomes 22 are added to chromosome 9) is seen next to the normal chromosome 9 (pale red arrow), but this
is not relevant for the pathology of CML. Source: Courtesy of Dr. Martine Jotterand, Lausanne. (b) The most frequent types of transcripts from the
BCR-ABL fusion genes seen in Phi+ leukemias are shown. Open boxes indicate exons from the BCR gene and shaded boxes exons from the ABL gene.
PCR primers are depicted as black vertical lines. Exons are numbered. Phi+ ALL often shows the e1a2 transcript composed of exon 1 from the BCR
gene joined to exon 2 of the ABL gene. This transcript may be detected by RT-PCR using a primer on BCR exon 1 and a primer on ABL exon 3 yielding
a 481 bp fragment. One of the most frequent transcripts seen in CML is the b3a2 transcript. Here the BCR primer is placed onto exon b2 (=e13)
present in the M-BCR (Fig. 1.10) and the ABL primer recognizes sequences from exon 3. The result is a 385 bp PCR fragment. The normal nontranslocated
BCR gene produces a 808 bp fragment using BCR primers b2/e13 and e21. Use of this primer pair would yield no signal from any Phi+ chromosome
because annealing sites for the e21 primer would all be replaced by ABL sequences. RT-PCR amplicons are electrophoresed on an agarose gel and
visualized as discrete bands (top inset). Their molecular size may be identified with the help of a molecular weight marker with multiple fragments
differing in size by 100 bp (M). N is a normal leukocyte sample, and cases 1–3 are Phi+ ALL with transcript e1a2 (1), a myeloid leukemia with a
normal 808 bp BCR transcript and no evidence of a BCR-ABL fusion transcript (2), and a CML with transcript b3a2, respectively. The specificity of
the primers used and the identification of the PCR fragment size in the gel suffice for the molecular diagnosis. Nowadays, however, the PCR fragments
are often sequenced to determine their exact nucleotide sequence and the result compared with published sequence maps from the BCR and the
ABL genes. Source: Courtesy of Dr. E. Oppliger Leibundgut, Berne.

(peripheral/primitive neuroectodermal tumors), but are
rare in carcinomas. Recurrent balanced chromosomal
rearrangements are strongly associated with distinct tumor
entities, and there is compelling evidence that they represent
early events in malignant transformation (18).

Molecular Biology of Chromosomal Translocations
Chromosomal translocations may basically lead to two
types of gene alterations (Fig. 1.7):
1. A gene residing on one chromosome (chromosome A)
may be juxtaposed to regulatory sequences of another
completely unrelated gene on a different chromosome
(chromosome B). The gene from chromosome A may

still retain an intact internal organization, but it ends
up in a different genetic environment that drastically
alters its expression. This type of translocation is most
frequently seen in the lymphomas (Fig. 1.7). A classical
example is Burkitt’s lymphoma where the c-myc oncogene on chromosome 8 is translocated near the Ig
heavy-chain gene locus on chromosome 14q32. As in B
cells, Ig gene loci are actively transcribed as a part of
normal B-cell function, Ig heavy chain gene promoter
and enhancer sequences will constitutively activate
their new neighbor, the c-myc oncogene. As a result
transcription and translation of this oncogene are
greatly enhanced. Overproduction of the c-myc protein,
which is a transcription factor, will in turn activate
other genes downstream and profoundly alter the

8

Section I: General Principles

Gene A

Gene B

Lymphomas
No

PUT THE DOG OUT AND GET THE CAT

Leukemias
MALT-NHL

Figure 1.7 The principle of chromosomal translocations. Chromosomal
translocations may place an intact gene into a new genetic neighborhood.
The result is usually untimely or otherwise inappropriate expression
of its normal protein product (top panel). Fusion genes composed of
parts from two different chromosomes may yield abnormal fusion
proteins (also termed chimeric proteins) that do not occur in normal
cells (bottom panel).

proliferation and survival characteristics of these
lymphoma cells.
2. A different set of chromosomal translocations create
unique fusion genes. In this type of translocation, unrelated parts of different genes, which originally reside
on completely different chromosomal loci, are brought
together to form a new unique fusion gene. This type
of translocation most commonly occurs in leukemias,
male germ cell cancers, and in some sarcomas. The
classic citation in this respect is the Phi chromosome in
CML (Figs. 1.6 and 1.7). Typically, parts of a gene (but
not the entire gene) on one chromosome are joined to
parts of another gene (again not the entire gene) from
a partner chromosome. The resulting fusion gene takes
regulatory sequences and some of the exons from
one partner chromosome and the rest of its exons and
intronic sequences from the other chromosome. Transcription of this fusion gene results in an abnormal
fusion or hybrid messenger RNA composed of sequences
from both genes and the same will be true for the
fusion protein. Such fusion genes contribute to leukemia if their product is able to change the life of the cell
to its advantage. Clever experiments have shown that
the BCR-ABL fusion gene (the molecular equivalent of
the Phi chromosome in CML) can be introduced into
normal hematopoietic stem cells of mice. In a bone
marrow transplant model, these manipulated stem cells
may repopulate the marrow of the experimental animals after marrow-ablative treatment. However, the
resulting hematopoiesis is not normal but resembles a
murine myeloproliferative syndrome reminiscent of
human CML. Such experiments provide direct proof
that fusion genes and their abnormal protein products
contribute to leukemogenesis, even if perhaps a single
molecular hit is not always sufficient to create a full-blown
leukemia.
Classical examples of various malignancies and
their typical translocations are listed in Table 1.2. Most

partner genes involved in such translocations operate in
molecular pathways essential for cell proliferation, differentiation, and cell death. The BCR and ABL genes are
protein kinases that typically operate in signal transduction. Many genes involved in chromosomal translocations
are transcription factors. Some partner genes in chromosomal translocations are receptors that, similar to protein
kinases, may be involved in signal transduction and cell
differentiation. Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is
the prime example for this type of translocation as it
involves the retinoic acid receptor α. Genes regulating
programmed cell death, apoptosis, may also be involved,
for example, bcl-2.
A largely unsolved riddle is the molecular mechanism by which such translocations are created (18,21). As
for most gene fusions no specific initiating factors have
been found, chromosomal instability, a common feature of
many cancer cells, may perhaps create translocations simply by chance, and one may assume that DNA doublestrand breaks are required for most chromosome aberrations
that produce fusion genes. A concept with a relatively firm
basis is gene translocation through illegitimate genetic
recombination and recombinase errors in B lymphoid cells.
There is good reason to assume that this applies to lymphoid neoplasms where one of the partner genes involved
is an antigen receptor gene. Reshuffling, juggling, and recombination of gene segments from antigen receptor genes are
normal physiological events that are crucial to create functional Ig or TCR genes (Fig. 1.3). Recombinases required for
antigen receptor gene rearrangements operate through the
“diagnosis” of specific recognition sequences conveniently
placed near the gene segments of interest. It so happens
that some of these sequences can also be found near oncogenes, for example, near the bcl-2 oncogene. Although in
a B cell the Ig genes are being rearranged, a recombinase
could pick by error a bcl-2 oncogene sequence instead of
an Ig gene sequence and join it to an Ig gene locus. Inappropriate activation of bcl-2, an antiapoptotic gene under
the influence of an Ig gene promoter, would provide the
cell with a distinctive survival advantage over normal
lymphocytes.
The fact that chromosomal translocations are consistently associated with specific tumor types supports the
assumption of cell lineage-specific mechanisms of tumorigenesis (22). At least one of the two partners of fusion
genes is often active in a cell lineage-specific biological
playground. The BCR-ABL chimeric gene product does not
transform nonhematopoietic cell types (e.g., NIH 3T3 fibroblasts), but does confer growth factor independence and
inhibition of apoptosis in hematopoietic cell culture systems. Its lineage specificity may also depend on the type
of its promoter. BCR-ABL expression under the BCR gene
promoter has devastating effects on many cell types
whereas expression of the same fusion gene under a metallothionein promoter specifically leads to leukemia in
mice. The APL-specific PML-RARαfusion protein exerts
growth suppression and cell death in nonhematopoietic
and many hematopoietic cell lines, but the myeloid environment is tolerant to these toxic effects, and myeloid cells
gain an advantage from this chimeric protein. Lineagespecific expression of an oncogene may also be achieved
if it is placed under the control of a gene that is normally
active in this cell type. An example is c-myc overexpression

Chapter 1:

Table 1.2

Molecular Biology of Cancer

9

Selected Examples of Chromosomal Translocations in Hematological Malignancies and Sarcomas

Neoplasm

Karyotype

Gene A

B-cell lymphomas
Follicular NHL

t(14;18)(q32;q21)

18q21 bcl-2 gene (B-cell 14q32
Ig heavy-chain gene
lymphoma gene 2)
Anti-apoptosis gene

Mantle cell NHL
t(11;14)(q13;q32)
(and some other
B-cell lymphomas)

Burkitt’s NHL

B-cell leukemias
Childhood B-cell
precursor ALL
(favorable
prognosis)

T-cell neoplasms
Ki1+/CD30+
anaplastic T-cell
NHL

t(8;14)(q24;q32)

11q13
bcl-1 locus harboring the
PRAD1 oncogene/
cyclin D1/CCND1
gene
Cell cycle regulator
8q24 c-myc oncogene
Transcription factor

Gene B

14q32
Ig heavy-chain gene

14q32
Ig heavy-chain gene

Comments
Overexpression of bcl-2 prevents apoptotic
death in transformed B cells. The t(14;18)
is also seen in some normal B cells
indicating that by itself it is not sufficient
for full neoplastic transformation
Overexpression of cyclin D1

In a transgenic mouse model,
overexpression of c-myc was shown to
yield lymphoma. In endemic BL
sequences far upstream of c-myc join
into the Ig gene region whereas in
sporadic BL sequences within the first
intron and exon of c-myc are involved

t(12;21)(p13;q22)

21q22
Fusion gene. This translocation is usually
12p13 Tel gene/ETV-6
not seen in routine karyotypes, but only
gene Translocation Ets AML1 gene or PEBP2αB gene
(human homologue of the
on molecular analysis (FISH or PCR). The
leukemia Ets
DNA-binding α-subunit of
TEL gene is frequently rearranged in a
(E26 avian
the heterodimeric
wide variety of hematological neoplasms.
erythroblastosis virus
polyomavirus enhancer
The TEL/AML1 fusion gene is the most
transformation-specific
core binding protein
common gene rearrangement in
protein) translocation
PEBP2αβ) or CBFA2 gene
childhood ALL, but rare in adult ALL
variant gene 6
(core binding factor A2)
Transcription factor
Transcription factor

t(2;5)(p23;q35)

2p23 ALK gene
(anaplastic lymphoma
kinase)
Tyrosine protein kinase

5q35
NPM gene (nucleophosmin
gene)
Nuclear phosphoprotein
involved in ribosome
assembly

Fusion gene

9q34
c-abl oncogene Tyrosine
protein kinase
involved in signal
transduction

22q11
BCR gene
Serine/threonine protein
kinase involved in signal
transduction

Fusion gene
The BCR-ABL fusion protein p210 shows
increased tyrosine protein kinase
activity, confers growth factor
independence, and inhibits apoptosis.
Imatinib mesylate (or GlivecR) inhibits
this fusion protein. In Phi+ ALL breaks
often occur in the first intron of the BCR
gene (m-BCR), and the fusion protein is
somewhat smaller (p185 or p190) than
in CML
Fusion gene

21q22 AML1 gene or
PEBP2αB gene (human
homologue of the
DNA-binding α-subunit of
the heterodimeric
polyomavirus enhancer core
binding protein PEBP2αβ)
or CBFA2 gene (core
binding factor A2)
Subunit of a transcription
factor
17q21
Fusion gene
RARαgene (retinoic acid
receptor αgene)
Receptor involved in cell
differentiation

Acute and chronic myeloid leukemias
CML (and Phi+ ALL) t(9;22)(q34;q11)
Philadelphia
chromosome

AML FAB M2 with
maturation

t(8;21)(q22;q22)

8q22
ETO gene (for eight
twenty-one) or MTG8
gene Transcription
factor

APL

t(15;17)(q22;q21)

15q22
PML gene (promyelocytic
leukemia)
Transcription factor

(Continued)

10

Section I: General Principles

Table 1.2

Selected Examples of Chromosomal Translocations in Hematological Malignancies and Sarcomas (Continued)

Neoplasm

Karyotype

Gene A

Gene B

Comments

Treatment-related
AML

Abnormal 11q23
and various
partner
chromosomes

Various partner genes

11q23
MLL gene (mixed lineage
leukemia)
ALL-1 gene
HRX/HTRX gene (human
homologue of the
Drosophila trithorax gene)
Transcription factor

Mostly fusion genes. MLL is among the
most promiscuous oncogenes in human
leukemia, but the fusion partners do not
appear to contain a common motif.
11q23 abnormalities occur particularly
in treatment-related AML after exposure
to epipodophyllotoxins targeting
topoisomerase II and in infant ALL

Sarcomas
Ewing sarcoma and t(11;22)(q24;q12)
related small
round cell tumors
including
peripheral/
primitive
neuroectodermal
tumors

11q24
22q12
FLI-1 gene (friend
EWS gene (Ewing sarcoma
leukemia integration
gene)
site 1, associated with Transcription factor
virus-induced murine
erythroleukemia)
Transcription factor

in Burkitt’s lymphoma under the influence of an Ig gene
promoter in B cells.

Clinical Relevance of Detecting Chromosomal
Translocations in Hematological Neoplasms
The molecular dissection of chromosomal translocations
has provided new diagnostic tools in hematological oncology and in the difficult diagnosis of certain types of sarcomas. Molecular analysis might be used at diagnosis for
staging, during patient follow-up, and for the detection of
contaminating malignant cells in hemopoietic stem cell harvests used in autologous stem cell transplantation. It must
be stressed, however, that the molecular detection of karyotype abnormalities does not replace cytogenetics. Careful
cytogenetic analysis of lymphomas and leukemias is still
indispensable to provide a valuable survey of their karyotypes. None of the molecular methods used in clinical
pathology provides this type of unbiased screening over
genetic alterations in cancer. Rather, molecular techniques
may specifically complement karyotyping as further outlined below.
Most of the chromosomal translocations are now
amenable to specific amplification by the PCR. The beauty
of this concept is that in a chromosomal translocation, the
molecular area where partner genes meet is a unique
hybrid sequence specific for a leukemia or a lymphoma
cell and absent in normal cells. In a few translocations such
as the t(14;18) in follicular lymphoma, DNA may be used
as the starting material for the PCR (12, 23, 24). However,
PCR amplification of translocation genes is only successful
if both gene partners break and reassemble within precisely defined molecular breakpoints or in breakpoint cluster areas for which specific primers may be designed. This
is indeed the case for follicular lymphoma, but in many
other lymphomas and leukemias, breakpoints may vary on
at least one of the partner genes. Reverse transcription PCR
(RT-PCR) starting from fusion mRNA overcomes this problem in a very elegant way. As the splicing of primary RNA
transcripts eliminates all intronic sequences, the fusion
gene mRNAs are small and handy and offer sequences

Fusion gene

suitable for the design of PCR primers (Fig. 1.8). In practice, RNA is extracted from leukemic cells, subjected to
reverse transcription, which produces a cDNA copy from
the fusion gene mRNA of interest which is enriched
through PCR amplification. The PCR detection of chromosomal translocations is highly specific and much quicker
than karyotyping. An alternative detection technique is the
fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) that is described
later in this chapter.
In practice, many leukemias can now be typed at the
molecular level, which is valuable because specific cytogenetic abnormalities are of considerable prognostic significance and information on the karyotype is increasingly
being used to design custom-tailored treatment programs.
The prime example is APL. This leukemia has a good
prognosis and the detection of the specific t(15;17) accurately predicts whether a case suspected to represent APL
on morphology really will respond to differentiation therapy with all-transretinoic acid (ATRA). Myeloid leukemias
that resemble APL on morphology but lack this specific
molecular abnormality are very unlikely to respond to
ATRA (25–27).
Molecular techniques can also be used for lymphoma
staging. In patients with follicular lymphoma, occult
involvement of the bone marrow, which is not detectable
by light microscopy of smears or biopsies, can be traced
by PCR amplification of the t(14;18). It is not quite clear at
present whether in clinical stage I or II follicular lymphoma the detection of occult marrow involvement (molecular stage IV) would really have an impact on clinical
management (12,23,28).
Another chief interest of molecular karyotyping in
leukemia and lymphoma is the possibility for highly sensitive molecular follow-up and the detection of minimal
residual disease (MRD) (8,28). Remission in cancer
patients is defined as the absence of any detectable tumor
using available diagnostic methods. In the leukemias,
hematological remission requires the demonstration of a
normal bone marrow on morphology as well as the return
to normal peripheral blood cell counts. Unfortunately,
hematological remission is no guarantee for cure as

Chapter 1:

Molecular Biology of Cancer

RT-PCR
1

R

2

PCR

mRNA

5′

A AA A A
T T T T T 5′

R

1

5′

2

5′
5′

A AA A A
T T T T T 5′

cDNA

5′
3

3

A AA A A

5′
S

5′

R
mRNA

5′

5′
5′

4

S

5′

5′
5′
5′
5′

T T T T T 5′
5′
5′
4

11

5′

A AA A A
T T T T T 5′

5

5′
5′

5′
5′
5′
5′

Figure 1.8 The principle of the PCR and RT-PCR. Right panel: (1) A double-stranded DNA sample contains a region of interest (black) for PCR
amplification. (2) In an initial step, DNA is heated to separate the two complementary strands. (3) In order to amplify the black excerpt, some DNA
sequence information on its flanking regions is necessary. This information is used to prepare primers (short oligonucleotide sequences of about 20–25
nt) that are complementary to specific and unique sequences on the respective single strands of DNA (small dotted boxes). Under suitable conditions
(temperature, time, and salt concentrations in the tube being the most critical), the primers anneal specifically to their complementary sequences on
the DNA strands. (4) Annealed primers provide the starting signal for a DNA polymerase (Taq polymerase) to synthesize a new DNA strand along the
template strands with nucleotides provided in the reaction mix (arrows). It is essential that the new strand extends into the region of the other primer.
This will in turn guarantee that in a next round of PCR, each primer will find a suitable sequence to anneal not only to the original “mother” template
but also on the newly formed short PCR fragments. (5) Each PCR round or cycle runs sequentially through steps 2–4 and the technique thus permits
exponential amplification of the fragment of interest (black). Typically PCR steps take anything between 10 sec to several minutes each. Usually 25–45
PCR cycles are performed and provide 2n amplification, where n is the number of cycles. After 30 cycles, this means a lot of identical fragments! The
PCR product may be visualized by gel electrophoresis and identified through its molecular size, or it may be sequenced. Left panel: (1) Instead of DNA
the starting material is single-stranded RNA extracted from a leukemia cell with a chromosomal translocation. The fusion mRNA is therefore composed
of sequences from one chromosome (empty box) joined to sequences from another chromosome (black box). mRNA typically has a poly(A) tail at its
3′ end. The first step of the RT-PCR reaction is to copy the mRNA strand into a complementary DNA strand (cDNA strand). Two types of primers may
be used to direct this synthesis: either a poly(dT) primer that anneals with the poly(A) tail of the mRNA molecule or random primers composed of
nonspecific redundant sequences with a high likelihood of finding a sequence on the mRNA strand where they may anneal (gray and dotted boxes
marked R). Thus, they provide the starting signals for the unidirectional synthesis of a cDNA strand (arrows) directed by the enzyme reverse transcriptase
(RT). (2) The result is a nucleic acid double strand with one strand representing the original fusion mRNA and the other one the newly synthesized
cDNA strand. Subsequently, the technique follows the principle of the PCR as shown in the right panel. (3) Heating separates the two strands. A
specific set of primers is now used to target nucleic acid sequences of interest. Both primers (gray and black small boxes marked S) are specific for
sequences flanking the fusion area where exons transcribed from either partner chromosome were spliced together. These primers are used to synthesize
complementary DNA copies from the mRNA and the cDNA templates, respectively. Synthesis of these strands is directed by a polymerase, usually
heat-stable Taq polymerase. (4) The result of this round is the production of two copies of fusion cDNA sequences, which along with the original
templates, are amenable to further rounds of specific PCR amplification.

malignant cells in the bone marrow may go undetected
if present below the 1–5% threshold. Specific amplification of chromosomal fusion genes provides a sensitive
method for the detection of minimal residual leukemia
or lymphoma. The sensitivity of detecting occult malignant cells in normal tissue varies between 1 x 104 and
1 x 106. There is a price to pay, however, for such high
detection sensitivity. The PCR has a risk of false-positive
results through amplification of contaminant nucleic acid
fragments. RT-PCR may be false-negative if at the time
of sampling malignant cells do not express the critical
fusion gene.

A number of interesting correlations between PCR
typing data and clinical parameters have been worked out
in the literature:
• Patients with AML characterized by t(8;21) have an
excellent long-term prognosis after chemotherapy
although PCR monitoring may demonstrate that varying levels of detectable t(8;21) transcripts persist in
long-term remission (29).
• In contrast, APL patients in stable long-term remission
invariably show negative PCR results. The reappearance of the PCR-detected t(15;17) almost always heralds

12

Section I: General Principles

clinical relapse (26,27). The question of whether molecular APL relapse during ongoing hematological remission ought to be retreated at an early stage (before
relapse becomes apparent on bone marrow morphology
or clinically) is currently unresolved.
• Patients with t(14;18)-positive follicular lymphoma who
achieve molecular remission during the first year of their
treatment enjoy a significantly longer failure-free survival than those who do not. In some series, serial PCR
analysis to determine molecular response in this lymphoma apparently correlates well with outcome (12,24).
• In ALL antigen receptor gene rearrangements provide
unique leukemia- and case-specific molecular tags amenable to PCR (Fig. 1.3). In each leukemic clone, an Ig
or TCR gene is a unique marker because specific variable (V), diversity (D), and joining (J) sequences are
selected from a large pool to form a specific rearranged
gene through VDJ joining. Deletions of germline nucleotides and insertion of small numbers of extra nucleotides into the recombination site add to molecular
diversity. Such clone-specific sequences can be amplified by PCR and distinguished from the background
originating from normal lymphoid cells. Clonal evolution may, however, jeopardize this elegant strategy of
snooping for minimal residual leukemia, as specific
rearrangement patterns may change over time. Interesting but conflicting results have been obtained from
prospective PCR analyses of minimal residual ALL
in children. Molecular signs of residual leukemia in
remission may persist over several years after stopping
chemotherapy, which perhaps suggests that complete
eradication of the leukemic clone may not be a strict
prerequisite for cure. On one hand, a single positive
PCR result early in remission does not necessarily indicate impending relapse. On the other hand, negative
PCR results in remission do not guarantee durable
remissions (8,30).
• High-dose chemotherapy and transfusion of autologous
hematopoietic stem cells are often used in the treatment
of lymphoma and leukemia. Although patients are
intensively pretreated before stem cell harvest, such
harvests may still be contaminated with malignant cells
having escaped treatment. The reinfusion of such tumor
cells may contribute to relapse. A variety of methods
are valuable to reduce or eliminate such contaminating
tumor cells, including purging of stem cell harvests or
positive enrichment for CD34+ stem cells. A control
over the efficacy of such maneuvers may nevertheless
be valuable. It turns out that the demonstration by PCR
of the absence or presence of follicular lymphoma cells
with a translocation t(14;18) in stem cell harvests is
probably clinically relevant. In patients where no contaminating lymphoma cells are detected by PCR, disease-free survival seems to be much increased over
those patients in whom residual lymphoma is detected
in the marrow (27,31).

CHROMOSOMAL LOSS AND THE CONCEPT
OF TUMOR SUPPRESSOR GENES
In 1969, a seminal article appeared in the journal Nature.
(32) It described suppression of the malignant behavior of

cultured tumor cells when they were fused with certain
nonmalignant cells. Interestingly, loss of chromosomes in
hybrid cells was associated with reversion to malignancy.
It was argued that the normal cells fused to the malignant
cells would contribute “something” that would suppress
their malignant character, and that this “something” was
again lost when certain chromosomes were eliminated
from the hybrids.
Two years later, an equally interesting observation
was reported. Knudson noted that a rare tumor, retinoblastoma, occurred in two different epidemiological settings:
in patients without a family history (sporadic cases), tumors
were mostly unilateral whereas in patients with a positive
family history (indicating hereditary predisposition), retinoblastomas were often bilateral and associated with other
rare tumors such as soft tissue sarcomas. Knudson argued
that a concept of two genetic “hits” affecting both copies
of a gene would provide a simple explanation covering
both clinical patterns (Fig. 1.9) (33,34). In patients with
sporadic tumors, a first genetic “hit” knocks out one retinoblastoma gene allele in a somatic cell from the retina. The
remaining allele suffices for normal gene function and
therefore no immediate biological effect would be noted.
Destruction in the same cell of the second allele (a second
hit at a later stage) completely knocks out the gene and
a malignant tumor develops. Both hits represent somatic
genetic events striking sequentially at the same cell. In
patients with hereditary cancer predisposition, the first hit
is inherited from a parent or occurs de novo in the germline. A germline gene alteration is thus present in all cells
(not just the retina) throughout the life of the individual,
but it remains silent at the phenotypic level. However,
through a second hit in a somatic cell, in the retina or elsewhere, the remaining normal allele may also be inactivated.
The combination of a predisposing germline hit and a second somatic hit in the same cell provides the basis for
tumor development. In contrast to sporadic cases, only one
somatic hit is required in familial cases which explains
their higher risk for bilateral retinoblastomas and tumors
outside the eye.
Observations from cell biology, epidemiology, and
clinical genetics were eventually brought together through
the molecular cloning of the retinoblastoma (Rb) gene to
provide a comprehensive picture of how Rb inactivation
contributes to cancer (35,36). For a start it was noted that
in some retinoblastomas, a part of chromosome 13 at band
q14 was missing. This provided a first clue to the chromosomal localization of the putative gene. In the next step,
polymorphic DNA markers mapped to 13q14 were used
to visualize fragments from maternal and paternal chromosome 13q copies separately (Fig. 1.4). Although constitutive
DNA from normal cells showed two alleles, tumor DNA
showed loss of heterozygosity (LOH), that is, loss of one
band. This did not by itself identify the affected gene but
genetic mapping helped to narrow down its position on
chromosome 13q14 at the molecular level. Eventually the
Rb gene was cloned based on the knowledge of its location
with no prior information on its sequence (this is termed
“positional cloning”), and its structure, mRNA, and protein
product were fully characterized. The Rb gene contains
over 27 exons spanning about 200 kb of DNA on chromosome 13. It encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein of approximately 105 kDa termed p105-Rb. Rb protein is a cell growth

Chapter 1:

Sporadic
tumors

13

Molecular Biology of Cancer

P
Rb

P
Rb
E2F

E2F

Transcription factor

Cyclin D1
CDK 4/6

Tumor syndromes
with hereditary
predisposition

M

Del

M

M

Del

G1

(GL)

M

Figure 1.9 Mutations in tumor suppressor genes in hereditary and
sporadic cancers. Two allelic chromosomes are depicted (white bars)
containing a tumor suppressor gene (shaded boxes). In patients with
sporadic tumors, a somatic cell is hit at mitosis by a first mutation (e.g.,
a point mutation) in one copy of the tumor suppressor gene (left panel:
black box indicated by M). Such a recessive mutation does not exert an
appreciable impact on the behavior of the cell as long as the normal
chromosome copy is still intact. However, if the gene allele on that other
chromosomal copy (arrow) is also inactivated in a second step in the
same cell (indicated by a second black box labeled M), both alleles of
the tumor suppressor gene are knocked out through sequential two-step
inactivation. Patients from families with hereditary cancer predisposition
are one step ahead in this schedule. The first mutation is inherited in
the germline (GL) and thus present in all cells of the body (right panel:
black M). A somatic cell, therefore, requires just a single hit to eliminate
the remaining normal gene copy (arrow) for full inactivation of the tumor
suppressor gene.

suppressor retaining the cell in a resting state. It sequesters
the E2F family of transcription factors that, if let loose,
would activate several genes encoding S-phase functions
in the cell cycle (Fig. 1.10).
Cloning of the Rb gene obviously provided the tool
to look at molecular retinoblastoma genetics. The first hit

S

G2

M

Figure 1.10 The role of the retinoblastoma (Rb) protein in the cell
cycle. The cyclin D1/cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) 4/6 complex
phosphorylates the Rb protein. In its hypophosphorylated form (left), it
is able to bind the transcription factor E2F. Once phosphorylated, Rb
must release E2F that will further activate the cell cycle via its
enforcement of transcription of downstream genes (not shown). The cell
thus overcomes the restriction point in G1 (arrow).

is mostly a small mutation somewhere in the gene, for
example, a point mutation or a small deletion that nevertheless precludes the production of a functional Rb protein
from that allele. The second hit is the complete or almost
complete loss of the remaining normal chromosome. In
fact, this second hit was first noted in the karyotypes of
Rb patients and identified with polymorphic DNA markers
as LOH, whereas the detection of small first hit mutations
only became possible once the gene had been cloned and
sequenced.
The Rb gene as well as other tumor suppressor genes
contribute to cancer through loss of function in contrast to
many oncogenes where genetic hits induce gene activation
(gain-of-function mutations). Elegant proof for this concept
has come from gene knockout experiments. Mice that lack
both copies of tumor suppressor genes, for example, p53–/–
mice, are particularly prone to developing cancers compared with their normal or heterozygous litter mates (e.g.,
p53+/+ mice or p53+/– mice, respectively). The simplest definition of tumor suppressor genes, therefore, describes
genes that contribute to cancer through inactivation and
loss-of-function mutations, regardless of their diverse functional or biological roles (Table 1.3). This definition implies
that unequivocal demonstration of inactivating mutations
is crucial. The function of tumor suppressor gene products
is extremely diverse, but a common theme is that these
genes represent potential bottlenecks in a wide range of
different cellular pathways or key points in many complex
cellular pathways regulating cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, as well as cell survival and response to
genetic damage. The wide range of different functional
properties, thus, precludes the use of functional criteria in
defining these genes.
Tumor suppressor genes are frequently inactivated in
cancer, including common cancers such as colorectal carcinoma, breast, and prostate cancer as well as lung cancer.

14

Section I: General Principles

Table 1.3

Examples of Human Tumor Suppressor Genes and Hereditary Cancer Syndromes

Gene

Locus

Function

APC or FAP gene

5q21

BRCA1 (Breast
cancer 1)

17q21

Sporadic colorectal cancer
Involved in regulation of apoptosis,
(early mutations in
possibly cellular adhesion and in
premalignant lesions,
signal transduction via binding to and
gatekeeper role)
sequestration of β-catenin. Blocks
activation of myc-transcription in
response to growth factors (the myc
oncogene would induce cell division)
Nuclear proteins implicated in
Rare in sporadic breast
transcriptional regulation
cancer
Components of DNA damage response
pathways

hMSH2, hMLH1
and others

2p15
3p21

DNA mismatch repair (MMR)

NF1 gene

17q11

Neurofibromin with ras GAP activity
involved in signal transduction via
the ras pathways

p16INK4A/MTS1

9p21

Cyclin-CDK inhibitor in the cell cycle

p53 gene

17p13

Retinoblastoma
gene (Rb)

13q14

Transcription factor, checkpoint control
at the G1/S-phase of the cell cycle
with induction of G1 cell cycle arrest
and/or induction of apoptosis after
DNA damage
“Guardian of the genome”
Transcription factor binding protein
Represses transcription of S phase
genes

Hematological neoplasms seem to be less frequently affected,
but inactivation of tumor suppressor genes may contribute
to clonal evolution of leukemias or lymphomas, for example, in blast crisis of CML or in transformation of follicular
lymphoma to secondary high-grade lymphoma.
The p53 gene as a transcription factor and cellular
gatekeeper for growth and division is a typical tumor suppressor gene (37–41). It is frequently inactivated in human
cancer by the characteristic two-step mechanism. Mice
nullizygous for the gene (p53–/–) are more susceptible to
γirradiation or to carcinogens used for the induction of
tumors. Thus, there is clear evidence that inactivation of
p53 is associated with cancer. Small p53 mutations in cancers are mainly seen in the DNA-binding domain of the
protein and result in its defective contact with DNA which
p53 needs to assume its proper role as a transcription factor. The mutational spectra at the p53 gene locus provide
a strong case for the carcinogenic role of diverse environmental agents, and it has been claimed that the frequency
and type of p53 mutations can act as molecular dosimeters
for carcinogen exposure. In lung cancer, the prevalent type

Sporadic tumor types with
inactivation of the gene

Associated hereditary tumor
syndromes
APC or FAP
Large gene with mostly frameshift or
non-sense mutations. Protein
truncation assays are therefore
suitable for mutation search

Familial breast cancer syndromes with
breast, ovarian, and prostate cancer
(BRCA1)
Excess of male breast cancer Large
gene with mostly frameshift or
non-sense mutations. Protein
truncation assays therefore suitable
for mutation search
HNPCC and other tumors HNPCC may
Rare sporadic colorectal
be indirectly detectable through
cancers with somatic MMR
search for instable microsatellite
mutations. Absence of
repeats in cancers (RER+ tumors;
microsatellite instability in
colorectal carcinoma is
mutator phenotype)
probably a good indicator hMSH2 and hMLH1 mutations
for the absence of HNPCC
account for 90% of familial cases
Neurofibromas
von Recklinghausen’s
neurofibromatosis
Many mutations detectable in protein
truncation test
T-cell neoplasms, gliomas,
Familial melanoma and familial
melanoma, urinary bladder
pancreatic cancer (mutations in
cancer, mesothelioma, and
exon 1α and exon 2)
others
Many different types of
Li–Fraumeni syndrome with sarcomas,
tumors
breast cancer, brain tumors, and
others Mutations clustered in the
DNA binding domain (exons 5–8)

Retinoblastoma, soft tissue
sarcomas, osteosarcomas,
small cell lung cancer

Familial retinoblastoma Mutations
scattered over gene

of mutations are G:C to T:A transversions (substitutions of
a purine for a pyrimidine or vice versa) related to adducts
of benzo(a)pyrenes from cigarette smoke. In contrast, colon
cancers show G:C to A:T transitions (substitutions of one
purine for another purine or one pyrimidine for another
pyrimidine), particularly at CpG sequences. This is consistent with mutagenesis by endogenous deamination mechanisms rather than exogenous carcinogens.
What is the normal role of p53? If a cell has suffered
some damage to its genetic material, for example, through
irradiation or carcinogens, DNA damage must absolutely
be recognized before the two strands divide and get copied.
p53 comes in at this stage as the guardian of the genome
(Fig. 1.11). It spots DNA damage and prevents the cell from
propagating potentially serious typing errors in its DNA
sequence. As a consequence, normal or wild-type p53 is
upregulated in the cell. One of its mediators is the p21 cell
cycle brake that will interfere with cyclin/cyclin-dependent
kinase complexes in G1 and stop the cell from getting past
the restriction point (see cell cycle). Either the cell must
repair the damaged double strands or it will be eliminated

Chapter 1:

Molecular Biology of Cancer

15

Table 1.4 Clues to Hereditary Cancer Predisposition from
Clinical History
DNA
damage
wt-p53
Stop or apoptosis

G1

S

Stop

Apoptosis

G2

M

R

G1

Chemotherapy

Mutated p53

Figure 1.11 p53—guardian of the genome. DNA damage activates
the wild-type p53 protein (wt-p53). This will stop the cell in G1, and it
may only proceed in the cycle if it manages to repair any DNA damage.
Alternatively, it may be eliminated via apoptosis. In many cancers p53
is inactivated through mutations (bottom part). Damaged cells may,
therefore, copy their DNA and propagate errors in its genetic message.
Also, cells with inactivated p53 become less sensitive to chemotherapy
or radiotherapy.

via apoptotic pathways. The interference of p53 with apoptosis may be mediated via its effect on the apoptosis-related gene BAX, which counteracts bcl-2. It should come
as no surprise that p53 has its regulators too. The mdm2
protein inhibits p53 and leads to its degradation, thus limiting the duration of cell cycle arrest induced by p53 (40).
Inactivating p53 gene mutations are among the most
frequent in human cancer and associated with adverse
prognosis as well as reduced sensitivity to chemotherapy
and radiotherapy as shown for breast or colorectal cancer.
Replacement of the wild-type gene in tumor cell lines
reverts their malignant behavior in the culture dish. In
preliminary but remarkable clinical experiments, injection
of normal p53 gene contained in a retroviral expression
vector into lung cancer lesions refractory to conventional
chemo-radiotherapy led to tumor cell apoptosis and tumor
regression in a few patients (42). These clinical experiments, therefore, serve as proof of principle that the restoration of wild-type p53 may result in control of tumor
growth in patients with p53-deficient cancers.

MOLECULAR GENETICS OF HEREDITARY CANCER
PREDISPOSITION SYNDROMES
Several epidemiological and clinical arguments support the
view that cancer may occur in a hereditary setting. Cancer
patients may have a strong positive family history with
relatives affected either by the same type of tumor or by
other tumors. Multiple cancers (e.g., bilateral breast cancer
or a combination of breast and ovarian cancer) in the same
individual are particularly strong indicators of genetic predisposition. Hereditary cancers show a clear trend to present at an unusually early age when compared with sporadic

Bilateral tumors in paired organs (e.g., bilateral breast cancer)
Multiple different tumors in the same patient
Unusually early age at presentation (e.g., breast cancer in a 25–30year-old women)
Relatives in the family affected with cancer
• with the same type of tumor
• with different types of tumor
• with unusual patterns of presentation (e.g., male breast cancer)
• with tumors at an usually early age of onset
Note: The family history must be obtained with care and precision. A quick
superficial enquiry as to whether “there was someone with cancer in the family
or not” may often fail to uncover the whole story. It is essential to draw a precise
pedigree, and the patient may sometimes need help from other family members
to reconstruct the genealogy of their kindred. Cancer diagnoses should be
obtained as precisely as possible, including the age of onset of cancer in each
patient.

cancers. The chance that a major gene mutation is segregating in a family where cancer is diagnosed is influenced by
the proportion of relatives affected by relevant cancers and
by the ages of onset (Table 1.4). However, the modern small
(nuclear) family provides limited scope for the expression
of a genetic cancer trait, particularly in sex-restricted types
of tumors.
Many cancer predisposition genes follow the genetic
pattern of the tumor suppressor genes described earlier. In
a cancer family, a recessive germline mutation is inherited
or it occurs de novo at meiosis in one gene copy only. It
usually has no immediately apparent phenotypic effect. If
in a cell a second somatic mutation knocks out the other
normal allele, the complete lack of gene activity and the
absence of the gene product can profoundly alter the biology
of that cell and contribute to cancer development (43,44).
An increasing number of cancer predisposition genes
have now been cloned (Table 1.3). Initially, two ways have
been taken to find new hereditary cancer genes. Large
families in which individuals with and without a cancer
diagnosis were well characterized at the phenotypic level
were used for genetic linkage analysis. This genetic hunt for
a gene responsible for a hereditary disorder initially almost
always resembled blindman’s buff where luck rather than
ingenious logic decided on success or failure. Constitutional
DNA samples were taken from all individuals of these
families, including healthy subjects and cancer patients,
typed with highly polymorphic genetic markers, mostly
variable-number-of-tandem-repeat markers or microsatellites that mapped to defined chromosomal localizations
(Fig. 1.4). Highly polymorphic markers show a great number of different alleles passed down through a pedigree in
a Mendelian fashion. If a particular allele of a polymorphic
marker was shown to be handed on through the pedigree
along with the phenotype of the disease, that is, the cancer,
it was said to be “linked” to the putative gene locus. This
first round indicated the chromosomal region where the
suspected gene was localized, for example, chromosome
5 in familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) families. This
approach was more problematic in cancer than in other
hereditary disorders, mainly because the phenotypic expression of the altered gene (i.e., the development of a cancer)

16

Section I: General Principles

is not always clearly apparent in early life. In a family with
severe cystic fibrosis or hemophilia, it is usually easy to
decide in early childhood whether an individual is clinically affected or not. In contrast, a cancer phenotype in a
hereditary setting may nevertheless appear during later life.
Any member of a “cancer” family may develop a sporadic
cancer, for example, sporadic breast cancer or colon cancer,
that is unlinked to the genetic trait, but cannot be distinguished histologically from a tumor where hereditary
predisposition plays a strong role. Linkage analyses were
fruitful in the detective work to trace hereditary cancer
genes. For example, the hunt for the hereditary breast cancer gene BRCA1 started in this way (44). In 1990, linkage
of early-onset familial breast cancer to chromosome 17q21
was reported. It took another 4 years of hard work in this
competitive field to clone the BRCA1 gene and to characterize it in detail. Nowadays, the gene is well characterized
and tests are available to screen candidate families for
germline mutations in constitutional DNA.
Another strategy to find hereditary cancer genes was
to examine tumor DNA for LOH at particular genetic loci.
Data from cytogenetic analysis of tumors helped to select
appropriate molecular markers. Acquired chromosomal
deletions in cancers are excellent clues to the presence
of tumor suppressor genes, and precise mapping of such
deletions narrows down the chromosomal region of interest.
An interstitial deletion on chromosome 5q seen in a patient
with Gardner’s syndrome (a hereditary disorder related
to FAP) thus paved the way to localize the FAP/APC
gene to the long arm of this chromosome (43). The cloning
of the retinoblastoma gene was another example of this
strategy, as deletions of chromosome 13 were apparent in
tumor cells.
Once a tumor suppressor gene is cloned, its mutational patterns can be examined both in sporadic tumors
as well as in individuals from cancer families. Patients with
classic hereditary cancer syndromes almost invariably
show germline mutations of relevant cancer predisposition
genes in their constitutional DNA. In addition, their tumors
often show LOH with loss of the corresponding normal
chromosome (the second hit according to Knudson). The
pattern of germline mutations may vary greatly between
families. Many of the genes are large (e.g., the BRCA genes
or the FAP/APC gene), and for these reasons molecular
analysis to look for family-specific mutations may be cumbersome. Automated DNA sequencing of PCR products,
the DNA chip technology, and other assays such as protein
truncation tests now offer the possibility to screen families
with hereditary cancers for germline mutations in presymptomatic individuals. Direct DNA sequencing is currently the most thorough and specific way of searching for
mutations, and its use has been great facilitated through
the advent of high-throughput genetic sequencer machinery and computer programs. DNA microchips containing
sequences of entire genes of interest permit automated
sensitive detection of mutations. Some mutations although
quite diverse may still produce a common defect at the
protein level. If the gene product is a truncated protein
created through a nonsense mutation that inserts a premature stop codon or a frameshift mutation, this may be
assessed by a protein truncation test without the need for
gene sequencing. Most mutations in the FAP/APC gene
can be detected this way, and the same is true for many

BRCA1 gene mutations, or for some germline mutations in
DNA mismatch repair (MMR) genes affected in hereditary
nonpolyposis colorectal cancers (HNPCC) (43,44).
Germline mutations in constitutional DNA of clinically unaffected family members signal a risk for one or
several types of cancer to develop. Unfortunately, in most
cancer predisposition syndromes, the clinical management of those family members found to be at risk is still
unclear. Presymptomatic molecular diagnosis of hereditary
cancer is therefore associated with difficult ethical decisions. In addition, family members who opt for presymptomatic molecular diagnosis may have had harrowing
personal experience of the disease in close relatives. Among
the measures to be discussed are serial screening for early
diagnosis of cancers (e.g., mammography in women at
risk for breast cancer), prophylactic surgery of the organ
at risk (prophylactic bilateral mastectomy), removal of premalignant lesions (e.g., total colectomy in FAP/APC), or
chemoprevention.

SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION AND ITS DISTURBANCES
IN CANCER
Imagine you are sitting in a cinema watching a film on the
screen. The optical signals captured by the retina are transferred into signals suitable for transport along the optic
nerves to the appropriate areas of the brain. Here, the
visual messages are further modulated for you to become
aware of what is happening on the screen. Simultaneously,
the sound track of the picture produces a different type of
signals taken up via the auditory channels, but eventually
optical and acoustic signals are amalgamated in your central nervous system. This in turn will elicit your reactions
to what you are seeing and hearing (perhaps you like the
movie or perhaps you don’t). These complicated multistep
processes may be likened to signal transduction in a cell
that receives signals from its extracellular environment
and transfers them into the nucleus to elicit a biological
response. Due to the complicated structure of mammalian
cells including compartmentalization of the nucleus and
other elements within the cell, there are multiple barriers
between the cell’s genetic material and its extracellular environment. Thus, signal transduction pathways are essential
to establish and maintain contact between the nucleus and
the outside world of a cell.
Signals to which a cell would like to react may come
in different forms. Hormones, cytokines, or growth factors
are among the most important. Specific cell surface receptors span the plasma membrane and bind individual signal
molecules also known as their ligands, for example, a hormone or a growth factor. Receptors are often arranged as
a transmembrane device. The external moiety binds the
ligand arriving from the extracellular area, and the part at
the inner surface of the cell membrane is activated. The
intracellular part of a receptor may have protein kinase or
another enzymatic activity that is suitable to pass on the
signal downstream, although the actual primary messenger
(the hormone or the growth factor) never actually enters
the cell. Protein kinases or other proteins with enzymatic
activity in turn activate further chains of messenger cascades until the original message is passed on to the nucleus
in a way suitable to elicit a response. In the nucleus, a

Chapter 1:

transcription factor may be activated and may regulate a
specific gene. The ultimate goal of signal transduction pathways is not simply to transport a message to the nucleus,
but rather to elicit a specific well-timed biological response
and to modify gene transcription to alter cellular behavior
on demand.
Signal transduction problems in cancer are not only
important, but also highly complex. It seems sufficient,
therefore, to give some examples and not even try to review
this subject in a comprehensive manner. Figure 1.12 shows
excerpts of the epidermal growth factor signal transduction pathway (leaving out many details) where alteration
of critical steps may contribute to cancer (40,45,46). It also
illustrates the points where drugs may interfere with these
pathways.
The HER2 or neu oncogenic protein (also known as
c-erbB2 oncogene) is another example of a transmembrane
growth factor receptor (47,48). Upon its activation, its internal moiety displays tyrosine kinase activity. HER2 is amplified and overexpressed in a variety of cancers, notably
breast cancer, and associated with aggressive clinical behavior of such neoplasms. An antibody (trastuzumab) directed
against this oncogene is now in clinical use and has been
found to exhibit specific therapeutic activity in breast cancers with marked overexpression of the HER2/neu oncogene. Assessment of HER2/neu expression status on breast
cancer biopsies through immunohistochemistry has, therefore, widely been incorporated into diagnostic routine in
many pathology departments to provide a predictive marker
for appropriate use of trastuzumab.
Another player in a signal transduction line, the ras
oncogene, is frequently altered in cancer (49). The discovery of activating ras oncogene mutations in a bladder carcinoma was the first identification of an activated oncogene
in human cancer. Other types of cancers followed, notably
acute myeloblastic leukemia, lung cancer, and gastrointestinal carcinomas. In all these cancers, constitutive activation
of ras through point mutations mimics chronic stimulation
by the corresponding lineage-specific growth factors. The
ras oncogene is activated in cancer through point mutations
in specific codons that confer resistance of the active rasGTP complex to GAP. GAP is an enzyme that accelerates
the conversion of active ras-GTP into the inactive ras-GDP
form. ras oncogene point mutations, therefore, do their
trick by maintaining ras in its active ras-GTP form. Insight
into the normal structure and function of ras has yielded
an interesting (albeit still experimental) strategy for cancer treatment. In order to work properly, ras needs to be
attached to the inner cellular membrane. This is achieved
through farnesylation of the protein brought about by the
enzyme farnesyltransferase. Inhibitors of ras farnesylation
may therefore be therapeutically useful in cancer because
they specifically interfere with the increased activity of this
important second messenger and help to shut down ras
signaling in the absence of growth factors (Fig. 1.12).
Several cancers show inappropriate expression of protein kinases, for example, tyrosine protein kinases that are
involved in signal transduction at some stage, but do not
belong to the receptor-type kinases. The BCR-ABL fusion
protein in CML is an example (50). The blockade of the
abnormal tyrosine kinase activity exerted by the BCR/ABL
fusion protein in CML is now possible with the help of
a small molecule, imatinib mesylate (or Glivec®). Imatinib

Molecular Biology of Cancer

17

mesylate has revolutionized the therapy for this disease,
as the drug achieves a very high rate of lasting remissions
at the cost of very little toxicity. Gefitinib (Iressa®) is an
inhibitor of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)type kinase (Fig. 1.12) and was hailed as a new treatment
for lung cancer (51). In spite of promising early clinical data,
phase III trials combining gefitinib with chemotherapy in
nonsmall cell lung cancer failed to come up with a distinct
therapeutic advantage. One of the reasons for this failure
was probably the fact that patients were not selected by
molecular profiles (possibly predicting response to or resistance to gefitinib) but by conventional clinical and routine
histological criteria. Indeed, subsequent large-scale studies
in lung cancer using a single agent approach with both
erlotinib (Tarceva®) and gefitinib have demonstrated the benefit of treatment in defined subsets of lung cancer patients
(see later chapter on lung cancer).
The history of gefitinib shows that at the clinical
level, molecular therapy must stand its test in clinical trials
just as much as “old-fashioned” cytotoxic treatment, and
extrapolation of exciting in vitro results to cancer patients
is not justified without careful clinical studies. Nevertheless, such “small molecules” that specifically interfere with
important molecular pathways in cancer cells show much
promise, and their clinical use requires clinical oncologists
to get at least a basic grasp of the molecular pathology of
human cancer.

CELL CYCLE IN CANCER
Cellular proliferation, cell differentiation, and cell death are
normal biological processes under strict control of a variety
of modulating systems. In order to maintain law and order
in this essential part in the life of a cell, there must be rules
to replicate by, but these control mechanisms may be overthrown in cancer. Research into cell cycle biology is, therefore, inextricably linked with experimental cancer research,
and clinical application of news from the experimental
bench is starting to see the light of day (52,53).
A cell might rest “outside” the cycle in a phase termed
G0 (many cancer cells, particularly cancer stem cells do!).
An appropriate signal (e.g., a growth factor or another
mitogenic signal) might change this state and drive the cell
toward division. In G1 (for Gap1) the preparatory steps for
subsequent DNA synthesis are undertaken. The cell must
overcome a checkpoint in G1, the restriction point, before
it is allowed to start DNA synthesis (Fig. 1.13). Small proteins called cyclins operate as activators in this phase and
help to shorten G1. Cyclins cannot work alone but need
partners, the cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK) to exert their
effect. Cyclin-CDK complexes activate yet other partners
downstream through phosphorylation (an all important
mechanism of activating proteins in biology!). A famous
partner is the retinoblastoma (Rb) protein. In a resting cell,
it is almost devoid of phosphate groups (hypophosphorylated), and in this state it binds transcription factors, notably E2F (Fig. 1.10). It can thus block the cell from getting
out of G1. The cyclin D1-CDK4/6 partnership now adds
phosphate groups to the Rb protein that in turn must
release the E2F transcription factor from captivity. Transcription factors exert profound effects on other genes that
they either activate or deactivate to help the cell overcome

18

Section I: General Principles

Extracellular

b
ma

FR
EG

R
EGF

Tras

tuzu

i
tux

b
ini
lot ib
Er fitin
Ge

Rece
p
tyros tor
in
kinas e
e

tor
cep
Re osine
tyr ase
kin

Lap

atin

ib

a e
m an
as br
Pl em
m

Ce

mab

+P
Intracellular

SOS

RAS

Farnesyl transferase RAS
inhibitors
RAF

PI3-K

MEK

mTOR

Akt

Temsirolimus
Rapamycin

MAPK

Nucleus
Gene transcription
Gene silencing
Cell proliferation
G1 to S

Gene transcription
Gene silencing
Antiapoptotic effects
Cell survival
Angiogenesis

Figure 1.12 Signal transduction and the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) pathway. This cartoon shows excerpts from an important signal
transduction pathway that transmits an external signal into the nucleus of the cell. A growth factor, a hormone, or a cytokine—a ligand (epidermal
growth factor in this example)—binds to the extracellular domain of its receptor. Receptor proteins are usually placed in a transmembrane position
with the receptor portion protruding to the extracellular area. The intracellular domain of the protein assumes a different function. Upon reaction of
the ligand with the receptor, a signal is transferred across the plasma membrane to the internal cytoplasmic domain of the receptor protein. This
domain is often an enzyme, for example, a tyrosine protein kinase as in this example. It is activated through autophosphorylation which in turn may
switch on several next steps. A variety of activated cytoplasmic effector proteins travel to the nucleus and act on gene transcription. Alterations of
different steps and players may be tightly linked to cancer (see main text). EGFR is a transmembrane tyrosine kinase receptor protein from a family
of four related proteins (HER1-4), also known as the ErbB tyrosine-kinase receptor family. Different ligands (“signals from the outside world”) can bind
to the extracellular part of these receptors, except for HER2 which does not have the capacity to interact with an external ligand. Receptor-ligand
binding induces formation of receptor protein dimers, either homodimers (EGFR-EGFR) or heterodimers (HER2-EGFR). In contrast to HER1, 3, and 4,
HER2 may dimerize with EGFR in the absence of a specific HER2 ligand. Receptor mutations or overexpression in tumors can also induce dimerization,
hence activation, in the absence of ligands. Activation of the receptor leads in turn to activation of intracellular kinases. Their autophosphorylation
triggers a series of intracellular pathways, where other proteins are placed in an assembly line where turn by turn they are activated through
phosphorylation (+P) (e.g., SOS-RAS-RAF-MEK-MAPK). Depending on the pathway activated, the end result may differ. The SOS-RAS-RAF-MEK-MAPK
pathway eventually induces cell cycle progression and cell proliferation, whereas the PI3-K-AKT pathway sends out antiapoptotic and prosurvival signals.
A tight multistep control of such processes is essential for the life and death of a cell, and in contrast to equally redundant bureaucratic procedures
in government administration, signal transduction, complicated as it may seem, actually works. Antibodies (e.g., cetuximab) block the extracellular
part of their target protein, and small molecules (e.g., erlotinib) block the tyrosine kinase activity of the intracellular part. Note that the graphic
presentation deliberately boils down this complicated field to a few key features. Abbreviations: Akt, enzyme Ak transforming factor, a serine-threonine
kinase (also known as protein kinase B); EGFR, epidermal growth factor receptor; MAPK, mitogen-activated protein kinase; MEK, mitogen extracellular
signal kinase; P, phosphorylation (i.e., the main effect produced by kinases with the help of ATP); PI3-K, phosphoinositide 3-kinase, a lipid kinase;
RAF, receptor activation factor; RAS, rat sarcoma enzyme, a G-protein (guanine nucleotide exchange factor) inhibited by farnesyl transferase inhibitors;
SOS, son-of-sevenless, a kinase (name derived from Drosophila gene nomenclature), which helps to release GDP (guanosine diphosphate) from the
ras protein.

Chapter 1:

Gap 1

DNA
synthesis

Gap 2

Mitosis

Gap 1

G1

S

G2

M

G1

Restriction
point

DNA
replication

Chromosome
separation
Cell division

Figure 1.13 The cell cycle. The cell cycle is divided into several
phases. In G1 (gap 1) the cell is resting, and further progression is
blocked unless it overcomes the restriction point. Under the influence
of growth-stimulating signals, the restriction point may be overcome and
the cell’s machinery prepares for DNA synthesis. DNA is replicated in
S phase. After a second short gap (G2), the cells enters mitosis where
chromosomes separate. Two daughter cells are produced, which enter
their own G1 phases each. Cells may also rest outside the cell cycle in
a state called G0 (not shown) from whence they may reenter the cell
cycle via G1.

the G1 checkpoint and enter S phase. After that there is
nothing to stop it from moving on. Most importantly the
cell will become independent from growth factors and from
cyclin-CDK complexes as it proceeds on its way toward
mitosis. DNA synthesis will now ensue in S phase, and
after a second short interval termed G2, the cell will divide
in mitosis. The daughter cells will either stay in an active
cycling state or rest in G0.
Several players in this scenario may contribute
to cancer if inappropriately activated or inactivated. In
mantle cell lymphoma, the cyclin D1 gene on chromosome
11 may be translocated to the Ig heavy-chain gene locus
on chromosome 14 (54). Overexpression or untimely expression of cyclin D1 under the influence of the Ig locus may
contribute in an oncogenic fashion to the malignant behavior of the neoplastic B cells present in this disorder. Certain
types of nonsmall cell lung cancer show amplification of
the cyclin D1 gene. Also, a DNA sequence variant in the
cyclin D1 gene that modulates splicing of cyclin D1 mRNA
and is responsible for the formation of a variant cyclin D1
transcript and the production of a cyclin D1 protein with
increased stability has been observed (cyclins normally are
very short lived and their action in the cell cycle is therefore restricted in time). Presence of this variant transcript
in patients with nonsmall cell lung cancer appears to
be associated with shorter survival and increased risk of
relapse. The Rb pathway is a coherent unit almost universally targeted in cancer. The retinoblastoma gene is a classical tumor suppressor gene where loss of function clearly
contributes to neoplastic behavior of a cell. Inactivated Rb
cannot hold E2F in check, and “free” E2F, therefore, manages to activate downstream genes in an uncontrolled fashion. The Rb gene is inactivated in a variety of hereditary
and sporadic tumors, in retinoblastoma (of course!), sarcomas, small cell lung cancer, and others.
The cell cycle needs brakes to keep its activating
players under control, notably the cyclin–CDK complexes.
A variety of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (CKIs) have

Molecular Biology of Cancer

19

been described by now. CKI proteins are usually designated with numbers indicating their molecular size. p21,
for example, is a 21 kDa CKI protein. Some CKI are specialized to deal with particular cyclin–CDK complexes (mostly
with those operating in G1) and others are more universal
in their action. CKIs are often mutated or their expression
altered in cancer. The p16 gene located on chromosome
9p21 is homozygously deleted in a variety of solid tumors
and T-cell neoplasms. Inactivating germline p16 mutations
have been found in families with melanoma and pancreatic
cancer. If the gene is intact, its expression in cancer may
still be blocked via another mechanism, that is, gene methylation of CpG residues at its 5′ end (methylation is a common mechanism in biology to switch off genes or blocks
of genes). Inactivation of this G1 cell cycle brake in a tumor
would therefore set the stage for continuous tumor cell
cycling, which may well contribute to the malignant behavior of such cells. The universal CKI p27 may also be inactivated in cancer, but in a different fashion. The gene is
almost always normal in cancer cells and so is p27 mRNA
production. Some cancers, however, produce p27 mRNA
but no p27 protein. It appears that these cells possess a
mechanism of putting the p27 cell cycle brake out of order
by destroying the protein. Such tumors, for example, colon
or breast cancers, behave more aggressively at the clinical
level than tumors with a normal p27 pathway (55,56).
A survey of the sections on tumor suppressor genes,
the cell cycle, and signal transduction in cancer shows that
these fundamental principles of biology are in fact inextricably intertwined. Cancer results from genetic plays in this
highly complicated and gigantic biological internet. Thus,
errors may be inserted in one program or another, wrecking the p16 or the ras files, or slipping in typing mistakes
in the spelling check.

MOLECULAR DIAGNOSTICS IN CANCER
Molecular diagnosis of cancer requires that suitable diagnostic material must be obtained. This is not trivial. Rather,
it is essential that clinicians harvesting biopsies, blood samples, or body fluids are aware of the methodological principle of a molecular test they would like to order.

The PCR in Cancer Diagnosis
Among the many methods now available in molecular
genetics, the PCR has become the front-runner for diagnostic purposes (Fig. 1.8). It offers the unique possibility to
amplify small specific gene segments or RNA fragments
for rapid analysis; results are often available within the same
day of material harvest. In many instances, PCR makes do
with damaged material or even archival specimens where
nucleic acids are ill preserved. The PCR product is a DNA
fragment of specific sequence and length (usually in the
range of a few dozen to several hundred base pairs) amplified either from DNA or in the case of RT-PCR from
cellular RNA. As the PCR fragment specificity is defined
through the sequence specificity of the primers, it may
suffice for proper identification to visualize the PCR fragment on gel electrophoresis where its molecular size can
be estimated (Fig. 1.6). If this is not sufficient, the fragment
may be sequenced (automated nowadays). This will yield

20

Section I: General Principles

Table 1.5

Diagnostic Use of PCR in Pathology and Oncology/Hematology

(a) Molecular alterations in tumors detectable by PCR or RT-PCR
• Point mutations, base pair insertions, and other small mutations
• Chromosomal translocations
• Small base pair deletions
• Loss of heterozygosity (LOH; microsatellite markers)
• Gene expression analysis by RT-PCR or by competitive semiquantitative RT-PCR or by real-time PCR (TaqMan PCR)
(b) Application of PCR technology to diagnostic problems in cancer
PCR detection of diagnostic Detection of germline mutations in cancer families
molecular markers
Detection of occult cancers through amplification of molecular markers in body fluids (e.g., ras gene mutations from
stool in colorectal carcinoma or microsatellite markers from urine in bladder cancer)
Diagnosis of specific cancers t(15;17) in APL; t(8;21) in AML with maturation. Clonal analysis of lymphoproliferations
by immunogenotyping and others
Detection of prognostic or
Various chromosomal translocations in hematological neoplasms
predictive markers in
Mutated oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes in solid tumors p53 gene mutations in breast cancer. LOH at various
a cancer
loci in colon cancer (including allelotyping)
Tumor staging
Occult marrow involvement in lymphoma (e.g., t[14;18] in follicular lymphoma)
Involvement of cerebrospinal fluid with lymphoid leukemia or lymphoma (clonal antigen receptor gene
rearrangements)
Examination of resection margins in surgical specimens for occult carcinoma (e.g., neck dissection tissue in
head-and-neck carcinoma tagged by p53 mutations)
Occult lymph node metastases of various cancers undetectable by histology (e.g., detection of carcinoembryogenic
antigen mRNA by RT-PCR to assess nodal status in colorectal cancer considering that lymphoid cells do not
express CEA)
Patient follow-up after
Sensitive PCR detection of specific chromosomal translocations in leukemia or lymphoma
treatment (MRD)
Detection of contaminating tumor cells in bone marrow or hematopoietic stem cell harvests used for autologous
stem cell transplantation

precise information on DNA sequence variants or gene
mutations contained, such as activating oncogene point
mutations, or inactivating small deletions in a tumor suppressor gene. Automated sequencing of PCR products has
now become the most widely used approach in molecular
diagnostics.
Applications of PCR-based techniques are listed in
Table 1.5. Although generally presented in many articles
as simple and elegant, PCR detection of many molecular
markers needs very careful quality control and a lot of
experience in technical troubleshooting. Interpretation of
its results in a clinical context requires a critical mind that
should not be overruled by the notion that it is better
simply because it is “molecular biology.” The clinical relevance of many molecular markers must still be demonstrated, and this is best achieved in prospective clinical
trials where molecular diagnostics are applied to welldefined patient populations and incorporated into controlled treatment programs.

of nonbiased survey on the chromosome status that karyotyping provides (recent technical developments aim at
overcoming this final limitation). Considering that chromosomal abnormalities are of unique prognostic importance
in many hematological cancers, the incorporation of FISH
diagnostics into routine is attractive. The technique is
particularly appealing to the study of solid tumors where

Fluorescent In Situ Hybridization (FISH)
PCR methods, as described above, usually start from nucleic
acids extracted from a biopsy specimen. In clinical pathology it may be useful to match morphology with molecular
data. This may be achieved by the FISH technique (57–60).
FISH is a method to identify chromosomal abnormalities
in mitotic figures or interphase nuclei at the single cell level
with the help of molecular probes tagged by various fluorescent dyes (Fig. 1.14). Multicolor FISH may detect several
different abnormalities in parallel. FISH may be used to
detect known chromosomal abnormalities using specific
DNA probes, and the technique does not present the type

Figure 1.14 FISH. Interphase nuclei from leukemic cells analyzed
with a DNA probe hybridizing to chromosome 7 (red dots) and a DNA
probe recognizing sequences from chromosome 8 (green dots). One
nucleus is normal with two copies of each chromosome, whereas one
nucleus shows three green dots indicating trisomy 8, a common
chromosomal abnormality in myeloid leukemias including MDS or CLL.
Source: Courtesy of Dr. Martine Jotterand, CHUV, Lausanne. See Color
Plate on Page ix.

Chapter 1:

conventional cytogenetic techniques often fail for a variety
of reasons (failure of setting up tumor cell cultures, unsatisfactory mitotic figures, etc.). In CLL, FISH may detect
chromosomal aberrations in about 80% of cases; these data
are clinically relevant: for example, patients with deletions
on chromosome 13q stand a much better chance of long-term
survival than those with, say, a deletion on chromosome
17p (60). FISH is also accepted as one of the gold standard
assays to detect amplification of the HER2/neu gene in
breast cancer, as an alternative to immunohistochemistry.
Comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) detects
chromosome copy number changes genomewide (58).
Genomic DNA isolated from tumor and normal control cells
(mostly lymphoid cells) labeled with different fluorochromes
are hybridized to normal metaphase chromosomes prepared
as in conventional karyotyping. Differences in fluorescence
ratio along metaphase chromosomes of tumor versus normal
cells quantitatively indicate changes in the DNA sequence
copy number in the tumor genome. More recently, arraybased CGH (aCGH) has been established, where microarrays
of genomic sequences replace the metaphase chromosomes
as hybridization targets. The main advantage of aCGH is
the ability to perform chromosome copy number analyses
with much higher resolution than was ever possible using
chromosomal CGH. CGH is mainly a research tool, with
so far little established routine use in cancer diagnostics.

Genetic Tumor Analysis with Polymorphic
DNA Markers
Human DNA contains a great number of highly polymorphic markers in its introns, with often ill-defined biological roles, but undeniably useful for molecular diagnostics
(Fig. 1.4). Informative markers, particularly microsatellites
composed of di-, tri-, or tetranucleotide base pair repeats,
and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), are now
precisely mapped with suitably narrow spacing to cover
the entire genome. Most individuals are constitutionally
heterozygous for such markers, which simply means that
the paternal and the maternal allele can be detected (i.e.,
visualized) separately on molecular analysis. If one allele
carries a critical gene mutation, the SNP marker would
thus label that allele and thus indirectly point to the presence of the mutation (which as such can or must not be
detected). If an SNP-labeled allele is linked to a phenotype,
for example, a pharmacogenetic profile of an individual, it
might suffice for diagnostic purposes to trace the polymorphism rather than the actual gene and its mutation. Polymorphic markers can also be used to compare constitutional
(normal) DNA and tumor DNA from the same patient
(61,62). SNPs and microsatellites are easily amenable to
semi-automated PCR typing and to DNA microarrays
analysis, allowing for comprehensive genome surveys on
the extent and localization in tumors of chromosomal or
allele deletions (LOH, or uniparental disomy, UPD) and new
microsatellite alleles created at mitosis (a mirror of genetic
instability). Such analyses known as molecular allelotyping
have been conducted in a variety of human cancers, including lung, prostate, and breast carcinomas as well as lymphocytic leukemias. From a diagnostic point of view, this
technology provides an alternative to the cytogenetic detection of chromosomal deletions. For example, karyotyping
of CLL is not always easy and the beauty of allelotyping

Molecular Biology of Cancer

21

with batteries of informative microsatellites or SNPs is that
DNA from resting cells, or even degraded DNA from archival samples, can be used.

Clinical Interest in the DNA Microchip Technology
The human genome sequence is now available, virtually
complete. Why should oncologists bother about this data
bank? Until now most research in molecular carcinogenesis
has been directed at discovering and characterizing single
“cancer” genes. Virtually all established diagnostic techniques in molecular cancer pathology suffer from the
limitation that they only tell us what we are specifically
looking for. It may well be that a chosen molecular marker
may be less relevant than another one which was not
ordered by the clinician or was not considered by the
pathologist. Colon cancer is an example that illustrates this
issue. For example, patients with stage III colon cancer
seem to derive more benefit from adjuvant therapy if their
tumors retain a wild-type K-ras sequence (55,56). Interestingly, colon cancer with a wild-type K-ras status will also
derive particular benefit from EGFR-targeted treatment (see
later chapter on colon cancer). Colon cancers with microsatellite instability may be less aggressive than tumors with
stable microsatellites. Retention of 18q alleles in microsatellite-stable tumors and mutations of the gene for type II
TGF-β1 receptor in node-positive microsatellite-instable
colon cancers both point to a more favorable prognosis after
adjuvant chemotherapy. A glance at this literature shows
that in most articles, the molecular marker of interest was
carefully studied, and one or the other additional gene
included in the analysis, but no such study provided an
overall appraisal of all molecular markers of potential
clinical value in this cancer. The established molecular
diagnostic techniques are mostly too laborious to permit
the comprehensive screening of a tumor biopsy sample for
all possible types of genetic markers.
A new approach would be to screen cancer specimens
for all possible “gene” problems; that is, to obtain individual
comprehensive cancer gene expression profiles at the RNA
expression level (also known as “signatures”). This is now
possible with microarray gene profiling (63,64). In contrast
to the study of single genes and their proteins, molecular
tumor profiling is a large-scale analysis of gene expression
in a tumor using the DNA microarrays (Fig. 1.15). DNA
microarrays typically consist of rows and rows of oligonucleotide sequence strands or cDNA sequences lined up
in dots on a silicon chip or glass slide (63–66). Oligonucleotide sequences or cDNAs on the chip permit specific
hybridization to labeled mRNAs of interest extracted from
a biopsy. Arrays can accommodate up to 30,000 specific
sequences on a single chip, chosen either randomly or deliberately “biased” to represent theme parks of genes typically expressed in a cell type of interest, for example,
“lymphoid genes” in B cells (“lymphochip”) (66).
The lymphochip is a cDNA microarray containing
selected genes preferentially expressed in lymphoid cells
(67,68). Analysis of gene expression in various lymphoid
malignancies yields an orderly picture of gene expression
patterns in particular types of lymphoma, reflecting both
lineage characteristics, stage of maturation of lymphoid
cells, and proliferation signatures. Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (a clinically heterogeneous group of lymphomas

22

Section I: General Principles

Tumors

1

2

3

4

etc.

Gene A
1

A
Gene B

B
30 μm

1 cm
...GTTCA... ...AGGTT...

Gene expression (graded reference scale)
High

Low

...CGTAC... ...TCTTG...

Figure 1.15 Gene expression profiling of tumors with cDNA microarrays or “chips.” The chip is a small flat box (upper left), which in a rectangular
chamber contains a siliconized surface loaded with single-strand nucleic acid sequences (lower left). These sequences represent either short, specific
oligonucleotides or cDNA prepared from mRNA of various cells. Specific sequences are neatly arranged in rows and columns and are ready for
hybridization with a sample composed of labeled single-stranded cRNA. A single chip may contain up to several 10,000 such sequences (representing
genes, or so-called expressed sequence tags ESTs). After hybridization the chip surface can be read and the results expressed as quantitative estimates
of gene expression, with respect to a scale of reference (bottom center). In this example mRNA from tumor 1 has been examined with the help of
the chip. Gene A is overexpressed in this sample, and gene B is not expressed at all. Tumor 3 shows the reverse gene expression pattern, and the
other samples all show distinct gene expression profiles. These raw data are then sorted with a number of strategies. Unsupervised clustering (explained
in a terribly simplified fashion!) refers to a program that groups tumor samples according to similar or completely distinct expression profiles. In
supervised clustering, additional information on the samples is fed in before sorting, for example, some clinical information. In the end, a limited
number of genes can be pulled from such profiles which distinguish one tumor subgroup from another. See Color Plate on Page ix.

despite their morphological similarity) can be split into
subtypes with gene expression profiles typical of either germinal center B cells or activated B cells. Diffuse large B-cell
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (DLBCL) expression signatures
differ markedly between patients who had been cured and
those who eventually relapsed (68). The promise is that such
expression profiles or signatures offer more precise prognostic information than established prognostic factors, such
as the International Prognostic Index in NHL (Fig. 1.16),
and eventually translate into concepts of refined differentially targeted therapy.
Likewise, one invasive-ductal breast cancer specimen
may look deceptively similar to another on histology, but
the fate of the two women may be totally different. This
is because of inherent biological differences of the two
tumors hidden in their genome, which may be elusive to
morphological examination. Variation in gene transcription programs governed by specific somatic gene alterations account for much of the biological diversity in human
tumors. The study of gene expression patterns in human
breast cancer specimens displays distinct molecular portraits or gene expression profiles providing molecular “fingerprints.” (69) Tumors may be clustered by sharing gene
expression patterns, and it is likely that such subgroups
comprise clinically distinct subtypes or entities of breast
cancers. It also turns out that the overall gene expression
pattern of a breast cancer case is by and large retained in

its metastases. Figure 1.17 shows an analysis where T1-2
N0 tumors, which had or had not relapsed within 5 years
after diagnosis and primary treatment, show clearly distinct gene expression profiles, respectively. Breast cancers
of the basal-like cell type, which often express neither
hormone receptors nor HER2 (“triple-negative breast cancer”) cannot be readily identified by histology, but exhibit
specific gene expression profiles detectable on microarray
analysis (70).
A few words of caution on the chip technology are
warranted. Currently, molecular diagnostics with DNA
microarrays do not displace time-honored diagnostic tools
such as morphology and related techniques, as the demands
on bioinformatics to handle the impressive data flow are
considerable and costs are still excessive (63,65). The clinical relevance of this technology and the new data it creates
will undoubtedly need to be refined and tested in appropriate clinical trials. Although global gene expression profiling of cancers with the DNA chip technology is now a
reality, the detailed characterization of single genes and
their proteins with a possible role in the molecular pathology of cancers is far from being an old hat. New strategies
to detect and characterize human proteins in biological
material (including clinical specimens) are now mandatory
and indeed on the horizon. As a concept, proteomics are
on their road to provide a new wave of fascinating data
with a great potential for cancer medicine, since, similar to

Chapter 1:

Tumor samples
35 36 37 38 39 40 ...

etc.

Cured

1 2 3 4 5 6 ...

Genes

9 10 11 12 13 14 15

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 ......

t

Gene expression (graded reference scale)
High

Low

Figure 1.16 Microarray analysis of DLBCL. About one-half of patients
with DLBCL are cured with CHOP-type chemotherapies and the other half
relapse and often succumb to their disease. Although a number of
clinicopathological parameters are available to create prognostic
subgroups (International Prognostic Index), clinical and pathological
information is inadequate for a neat distinction of these two subgroups.
In this example, cases either cured or with an eventually fatal outcome
were studied for their gene expression profiles. It turns out that DLBCL
with a good prognosis displays a gene expression signature that is clearly
different from the profile that lights up in lymphoma cells from eventually
fatal cases. Although the microarrays used in this experiments offered
thousands of genes for analysis, a neat prognostic distinction of the two
clinical DLBCL subgroups can be made with a restricted and selected
group of genes (horizontal rows), in fact no more than 15 genes. Source:
Modified after Ref. 68. See Color Plate on Page x.

cDNA microchips, proteomic analysis provides a survey of
protein production in a tumor specimen, hence specific
protein production signatures.

Immunocytochemical and Immunohistochemical
Analysis of Diagnostic Cancer Biopsies
In diagnostic practice, pathologists often choose to look at
the protein product of a gene through immunohistochemistry or immunocytochemistry rather than bothering about
the detection of DNA or RNA alterations in a tumor. The
immunohistochemical detection of proteins produced by
oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes on tissue sections
through appropriate (monoclonal) antibodies has become a
logical extension of the molecular analyses that initially led
to the characterization of these genes and their products.
• Many mutations inactivating the p53 tumor suppressor
gene lead to the formation of more stable (albeit nonfunctional) p53 protein. As the half-life of the wild-type
protein is very short, it usually does not provide a strong
signal on immunohistochemistry. The consequence of
many p53 gene mutations is the accumulation in a cell
of inactive p53 protein with increased half-life. Intensive staining of tumor cells with an appropriate p53

Molecular Biology of Cancer

23

antibody may therefore be taken to indicate the presence of p53 gene mutations although the correlation is
not strict. In clinical practice, immunohistochemical
detection of p53 is performed much more frequently
than gene sequencing. Many clinical studies linking p53
gene mutants with clinical outcome in tumor patients
are based on immunohistochemistry rather than gene
analysis (Fig. 1.18).
• Amplification of the HER2/neu oncogene and its overexpression in breast cancer is thought to represent an
adverse prognostic factor. More importantly, HER2/
neu overexpression quantified in a standardized immunohistochemistry assay is a predictive factor to decide
whether a woman with breast cancer stands a chance
of benefiting from treatment with a monoclonal antibody, trastuzumab, directed against the HER2/neu protein. For all practical purposes, HER2 is often always
detected by immunohistochemistry rather than by FISH
analysis of HER2 gene amplification (Fig. 1.18).

Clinical Validation of Predictive Markers in Cancer
“Traditional” cancer treatments were geared toward interfering with abnormal proliferation of cancer cells, and
hence many cytostatic drugs interfere with DNA synthesis,
the mitotic apparatus, or block gene transcription in a
nonspecific fashion. Likewise, radiotherapy interferes with
basic cellular mechanisms, which are not specific for cancer
cells. The unwelcome problem of such biologically “broad”
shots against cancer cells is toxicity to normal tissues, particularly those with a high fraction of cycling cells, such as
the bone marrow or mucosal epithelia. Advances in our
understanding of the molecular pathology of cancer have,
therefore, been hailed particularly with the notion that biomarkers will define target molecules which in turn will
permit the development of “targeted cancer therapies.”
(71–73) Such drugs are indeed available, mostly antibodies
(“mabs”) or small molecules (“nibs”), that may block pathways or molecules important for cancer cells, in a more or
less specific way. The concept of targeted therapy implies
that cancer cell heterogeneity must be taken into account
and that we need predictive markers to anticipate whether
a tumor would stand a reasonable chance of responding
favorably to a particular drug (46).
A predictive marker tells us the potential outcome
of a patient with a given tumor upon specific treatment,
whereas a prognostic marker simply provides information
on the natural history of the disease, mostly independent
of treatment. A prognostic marker may also be a predictive
marker. For example, the expression of estrogen receptors
in breast cancer implies a better prognosis, at the same
time indicating endocrine responsiveness. Some markers
have prognostic value but do not guide treatment choices,
though others are predictive but not prognostic. For example, CD20 expression in malignant lymphoma has as such
no prognostic value, but its presence indicates that the
tumor may respond to treatment with an anti-CD20-antibody,
rituximab.
In an ideal world, a predictive marker molecule
detected in a tumor biopsy would identify a molecular
feature of that tumor that neatly predicts its response to a
specific drug. Tumors that do not express the marker would
stand little or no chance of responding to the treatment

24

Section I: General Principles

Marker genes
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 .........

42 43 44 45 etc.

Meta <5 yrs.

40 41 42 43 44 etc.

Good

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 .......

No meta >5 yrs.

Tumor samples

Clinical course

Prognosis

Adverse

Gene expression: High

Low

Figure 1.17 cDNA microchip analysis (so-called supervised classification on prognosis gene expression signatures) of samples from women with
early node-negative breast cancer. In this example, tumor tissue samples from women with T1-2 N0 stage early breast cancer were analyzed with
microarrays. For data analysis, cases were split: those who remained disease-free for at least 5 years and those who relapsed within 5 years after
diagnosis and primary treatment (so-called supervised clustering analysis of chip data). The established clinical and biological prognostic parameters
in breast cancer (T stage, N stage, receptor status, etc.) did not permit prediction with any accuracy as to which women would remain disease-free or
relapse. In the molecular analysis, genes have been ordered according to their correlation with the two clinical prognostic patient groups. The microchip
analysis lights up gene expression profiles that clearly differ between tumors treated successfully and those cases that had relapsed within 5 years
after diagnosis. In women with no evidence of metastases after 5 years of follow-up, genes with low expression cluster to the upper left of the panel
(lighting up in green), and overexpressed genes (depicted in red) are grouped in the upper right sector of the panel. The reverse pattern or expression
profile is seen in the group of women who had relapsed. Source: Modified after Ref. 69. See Color Plate on Page x.

ER

VEGF

HER 2

P53

Figure 1.18 Immunohistochemical analysis of gene expression in breast cancer. Invasive-ductal breast cancer sections staining with diagnostic
antibodies recognizing (from left to right) estrogen receptors (nuclear; ER), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), HER2 (membrane bound), and
p53 (nuclear). The section stained with p53 also shows noninvasive ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS; right). The stromal cells in between the tumor
cells are mostly negative. Source: Courtesy of Prof. H.J. Altermann, Pathologie Länggasse, Berne. See Color Plate on Page xi.

that could be avoided in such marker-negative cases. There
are a few examples, where this system truly works, notably
the BCR-ABL-positive leukemias. Any leukemia expressing
the BCR-ABL fusion kinase stands an excellent a priori
chance of responding to imatinib mesylate (50). However,
the detection of the BCR-ABL fusion gene by PCR does
not guarantee that a beneficial response may be upheld
over time, as molecular mechanisms inducing drug resistance eventually turn up, where specific mutations in the
BCR-ABL gene eventually abolish the effectiveness of

imatinib mesylate. Unless specifically sought after, these
mutations, for example, the tyrosine kinase T315I-mutation,
will not be detected. Marker detection needs a reliable
predictive test with clinically validated and reproducible
results. The detection of HER2 in breast cancer samples
only predicts response to trastuzumab, if a high expression
level of the protein is detected immunohistochemically or
if gene amplification is demonstrated with a suitable FISH
assay (47). It is not sufficient if a pathologist uses any kind
of anti-HER2 antibody, identifies a number of positive

Chapter 1:

cancer cells, and then labels the case as “HER2” positive,
suggesting that anti-HER2 treatment should be installed.
Instead tests should be used that had been validated in
prospective clinical trials run to demonstrate the effectiveness of the drug, and any deviation from such practice
implies treading on slippery ground.
In summary, diagnostic molecular pathology is a
land of plenty with many choices. PCR methods, FISH and
CHIPS, or tissue immunostaining with monoclonal antibodies were all developed through advances in molecular
basic cancer research. They clearly overcome the technical
boundaries of traditional diagnostic methods. However, in
times of severe financial restraints in most health services
new expensive molecular methods need to be validated
carefully with respect to their clinical impact. If properly
demonstrated, however, the advantages may be very considerable. As pointed out in the introduction, knowledge
about molecular mechanisms of carcinogenesis has become
far more than just a playground for experimental biology.

REFERENCES
1.
2.

3.
4.
5.

6.
7.
8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

Wainscoat JS, Fey MF. Assessment of clonality in human
tumor: a review. Cancer Res 1990; 50: 1355–60.
Wood LD, Parsons DW, Jones S et al. The genomic landscapes of human breast and colorectal cancers. Science 2007;
318: 1108–13.
Dionigi G, Bianchi V, Rovera F et al. Genetic alteration in hereditary colorectal cancer. Surg Oncol. 2007; 16(Suppl 1): S11–15.
Boman BM. Cancer stem cells: a step toward the cure. J Clin
Oncol 2008; 26: 2795–99.
Boman BM, Huang E. Human colon cancer stem cells: a new
paradigm in gastrointestinal oncology. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26:
2828–38.
Jordan CT, Guzman ML, Noble M. Mechanisms of disease.
Cancer stem cells. New Engl J Med 2006; 355: 1253–61.
Savona M, Talpaz M. Getting to the stem cell of chronic
myeloid leukaemia. Nat Rev Cancer 2008; 8: 341–50.
van Dongen JJ, Langerak AW, Brüggemann M et al.
Design and standardization of PCR primers and protocols for
detection of clonal immunoglobulin and T-cell receptor gene
recombinations in suspect lymphoproliferations: report of the
BIOMED-2 Concerted Action BMH4-CT98-3936. Leukemia
2003; 17: 2257–317.
van der Velden VH, Hochhaus A, Cazzaniga G et al. Detection of minimal residual disease in hematologic malignancies
by real-time quantitative PCR: principles, approaches, and
laboratory aspects. Leukemia 2003; 17: 1013–34.
Walsh SH, Rosenquist R. Immunoglobulin gene analysis of
mature B-cell malignancies: reconsideration of cellular origin
and potential antigen involvement in pathogenesis. Med
Oncol 2005; 22: 327–41.
Küppers R, Yahalom J, Josting A. Advances in biology, diagnostics, and treatment of Hodgkin’s disease. Biol Blood Marrow Transpl 2006; 12: 66–76.
Bahloul M, Asnafi V, Macintyre E. Clinical impact of molecular diagnostics in low-grade lymphoma. Best Pract Res Clin
Haematol 2005; 18: 97–111.
Leong PP, Rezai B, Koch WM et al. Distinguishing second
primary tumors from lung metastases in patients with head
and neck squamous cell carcinoma. J Natl Cancer Inst 1998;
90: 972–7.
Nagel S, Borisch B, Thein SL et al. Somatic mutations detected
by mini- and microsatellite DNA markers reveal clonal intratumor heterogeneity in gastrointestinal cancer. Cancer Res
1995; 55: 2566–870.

15.

16.
17.

18.

19.
20.

21.
22.
23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.
33.
34.
35.

36.

Molecular Biology of Cancer

25

Cosme-Blanco W, Chang S. Dual roles of telomere dysfunction in initiation and suppression of tumorigenesis. Exp Cell
Res 2008; 314: 1973–9.
Calin GA, Croce CM. MicroRNA signatures in human cancers. Nat Rev Cancer 2006; 6: 857–66.
Ebert BL, Pretz J, Bosco J et al. Identification of RPS14 as a
5q-syndrome gene by RNA interference screen. Nature 2008;
451: 252–3.
Mitelman F, Johansson B, Mertens F. The impact of translocations and gene fusions on cancer causation. Nat Rev Cancer
2007; 7: 233–45.
Gilliland DG. Molecular genetics of human leukaemias: new
insights into therapy. Semin Hematol 2002; 39: 6–11.
Gilliland DG, Jordan CT, Felix CA. The molecular basis of
leukemia. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program 2004:
80–97.
Greaves MF, Wiemels J. Origins of chromosomal translocations
in childhood leukaemia. Nat Rev Cancer 2003; 3: 639–49.
Barr FG. Translocations, cancer and the puzzle of specificity.
Nat Genet 1998; 19: 121–24.
Mendinges CM, Meijerink JP, Mensink EJ et al. Lack of correlation between numbers of circulating t(14; 18)-positive cells
and response to first-line treatment in follicular lymphoma.
Blood 2001; 98; 940–44.
Hirt C, Schüler F, Dölken G. Minimal residual disease (MRD)
in follicular lymphoma in the era of immunotherapy with
rituximab. Semin Cancer Biol 2003; 13: 223–31.
Grimwade D, Howe K, Langabeer S et al. Establishing the
presence of the t(15;17) in suspected acute promyelocytic leukaemia: cytogenetic, molecular and PML immunofluorescence assessment of patients entered into the M.R.C. ATRA
trial. Brit J Haemat 1996; 94: 557–73.
Mistry AR, Pedersen EW, Solomon E et al. The molecular
pathogenesis of acute promyelocytic leukaemia: implications
for the clinical management of the disease. Blood Rev 2003;
17; 71–97.
Reiter A, Lengfelder E, Grimwade D. Pathogenesis, diagnosis
and monitoring of residual disease in acute promyelocytic
leukaemia. Acta Haematol 2004; 112: 55–67.
Summers KE, Davies AJ, Matthews J et al. The relative role
of peripheral blood and bone marrow for monitoring molecular evidence of disease in follicular lymphoma by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Br J Haematol 2002;
118: 563–6.
Guerrasio A, Rosso C, Martinelli G et al. Polyclonal haemopoiesis associated with long-term persistence of the AML1ETO transcript in patients with FAB M2 acute myeloid
leukaemia in continuous clinical remission. Br J Haematol
1995; 90: 364–8.
Cazzaniga G, Biondi A. Molecular monitoring of childhood
acute lymphoblastic leukemia using antigen receptor gene
rearrangements and quantitative polymerase chain reaction
technology. Haematologica 2005; 90: 382–90.
Gribben JG, Freedman AS, Neuberg D et al. Immunologic
purging of marrow assessed by PCR before autologous bone
marrow transplantation for B-cell lymphoma. New Eng J Med
1991; 325: 1525–33.
Harris H, Miller OJ, Klein G et al. Suppression of malignancy
by cell fusion. Nature 1969; 223: 363–8.
Knudson AG jr. Mutation and cancer: statistical study of
retinoblastoma. Proc Nat Acad Sci USA 1971; 68: 820–3.
Knudson AG. Hereditary cancer: theme and variations. J Clin
Oncol 1997; 15: 3280–7.
Cavenee WK, Dryja TP, Phillips RA et al. Expression of recessive alleles by chromosomal mechanisms in retinoblastoma.
Nature 1983; 305: 779–84.
Leiderman YI, Kiss S, Mukai S. Molecular genetics of
RB1-the retinoblastoma gene. Semin Ophthalmol. 2007; 22:
247–54.

26

Section I: General Principles

37. Levine AJ. p53, the cellular gatekeeper for growth and division. Cell 1997; 88: 323–31.
38. Wahl G, Vala O. Genetic instability, oncogenes and the p53
pathway. Cold Spring Harbour Symp Quant Biol 2000;
65: 511–20.
39. Feng Z, Hu W, Rajagopal G et al. The tumor suppressor p53:
cancer and aging. Cell Cycle 2008; 7: 842–7.
40. Toledo F, Wahl GM. Regulating the p53 pathway: in vitro
hypotheses, in vivo veritas. Nat Rev Cancer 2006; 6:
909–23.
41. Kuribayashi K, El-Deiry WS. Regulation of programmed cell
death by the p53 pathway. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2008; 615:
201–21.
42. Roth JA, Nguyen D, Lawrence DD et al. Retrovirus-mediated
wild-type p53 gene transfer to tumors of patients with lung
cancer. Nat Med 1996; 2: 985–91.
43. Lynch HT, Lynch JF, Lynch PM et al. Hereditary colorectal
cancer syndromes: molecular genetics, genetic counseling,
diagnosis and management. Fam Cancer 2008; 7: 27–39.
44. Blackwood A, Weber BL. BRCA1 and BRCA2: from molecular genetics to clinical medicine. J Clin Oncol 1998; 16:
1969–77.
45. Bussink J, van der Kogel AJ, Kaanders JHAM. Activation of
the PI3-K/Akt pathway and implications for radioresistance
mechanisms in head and neck cancer. Lancet Oncol 2008;
9: 288–96.
46. Ciardiello F, Tortora G. EGFR antagonists in cancer treatment. New Engl J Med 2008; 358: 1160–74.
47. Hudis C. Trastuzumab – mechanism of action and use in
clinical practice. New Engl J Med 2007; 357: 39–51.
48. Hicks DG, Kulkarni S. HER2+ breast cancer: review of biologic relevance and optimal use of diagnostic tools. Am J Clin
Pathol. 2008; 129: 263–73.
49. Downward J. Targeting RAS signaling pathways in cancer
therapy. Nat Rev Cancer 2003; 3: 11-22.
50. Druker BJ, Talpaz M, Resta DJ et al. Efficacy and safety of a
specific inhibitor of the BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase in chronic
myeloid leukemia. New Engl J Med 2001; 344: 1031–37.
51. Sridhar SS, Seymour L, Shepherd FA. Inhibitors of epidermal
growth factor receptors: a review of clinical research with
a focus on non-small lung cancer. Lancet Oncol 2003; 4:
397–406.
52. Sherr CJ. G1 phase progression: cycling on cue. Cell 1994; 79:
551–5.
53. Gali-Muhtasib H, Bakkar N. Modulating cell cycle: current
applications and prospects for future drug development.
Curr Cancer Drug Targets 2002; 2: 309–36.
54. Fernàndez V, Hartmann E, Ott G et al. Pathogenesis of
mantle-cell lymphoma: all oncogenic roads lead to dysregulation of cell cycle and DNA damage response pathways. J Clin
Oncol 2005; 23: 6364–9.

55.
56.

57.
58.
59.
60.

61.

62.

63.

64.
65.

66.
67.

68.

69.

70.
71.

72.
73.

Steeg PS, Abrams JS. Cancer prognostics: past, present and
p27. Nat Med 1997; 3: 152–4.
Ahnen DJ, Feigl P, Quan G et al. Ki ras mutation and
p53 mutation overexpression predict the clinical behaviour of
colorectal cancer: a Southwest Oncology Group Study. Cancer
Res 1998; 58: 1149–58.
Tibiletti MG. Interphase FISH as a new tool in tumor pathology. Cytogenet Genome Res 2007; 118: 229–36.
Bayani J, Squire JA. Comparative genomic hybridization.
Curr Protoc Cell Biol 2005; Chapter 22: Unit 22.6 137–44.
Sreekantaiah C. FISH panels for hematologic malignancies.
Cytogenet Genome Res 2007; 118: 284–96.
Döhner H, Stilgenbauer S, Benner A et al. Genomic aberrations and survival in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. New
Engl J Med 2000; 343: 1910–16.
Novak U, Oppliger Leibundgut E, Hager J et al. A high
resolution allelotype of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia
(B-CLL). Blood; 2002; 100: 1787–94.
Kawamata N et al. Molecular allelotyping of pediatric acute
lymphoblastic leukaemias by high-resolution single nucleotide
polymorphism oligonucleotide genomic microarray. Blood
2008; 111: 776–84.
Fey MF. Impact of the Human Genome Project on the clinical
management of sporadic cancers. Lancet Oncol 2002; 3:
349–56.
Quackenbush J. Microarray analysis and tumor classification.
New Engl J Med. 2006; 354: 2463–72.
Sotiriou C, Piccart M. Taking gene-expression profiling to the
clinic: when will molecular profile signatures become relevant for patient care? Nat Rev Cancer 2007; 7: 545–53.
Staudt L. Molecular diagnosis of the hematologic cancers.
New Engl J Med. 2003; 348: 1777–85.
Alizadeh AA, Eisen MB, Davis RE. Distinct types of diffuse
large B-cell lymphoma identified by gene expression profiling. Nature 2000; 403: 503–11.
Shipp MA, Ross KN, Tamayo P et al. Diffuse large B-cell
lymphoma outcome predicted by gene-expression profiling
and supervised machine learning, Nat Med 2002; 8: 68–74.
van ‘t Veer LJ, Dai H, van de Vijver MJ et al. Gene expression
profiling predicts clinical outcome of breast cancer. Nature
2002; 415: 530–6.
Rakha EA, Reis-Filho JS, Ellis IO. Basal-like breast cancer: a
critical review. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 2568–81.
Papadopoulos N, Kinzler KW, Bert Vogelstein B. The role
of companion diagnostics in the development and use of
mutation-targeted cancer therapies. Nat Biotechnol 2006; 24,
985–95.
Croce CM. Oncogenes and cancer. New Engl J Med 2008; 358:
502–11.
Letai AG. Diagnosing and exploiting cancer’s addiction to
blocks in apoptosis. Nat Rev Cancer 2008; 8: 121–32.

2
1
Principles of Systemic Therapy
Franco M. Muggia and Marc Ballas

SYSTEMIC TREATMENT MODALITIES:
21ST CENTURY TERMINOLOGY

HISTORICAL OVERVIEW
The history of cancer chemotherapy is usually traced to
the sensational December 2, 1943, incident (1) that occurred
at the harbor of Bari, Italy. An air raid destroyed 17 allied
ships including one containing mustard “bombs” (being
stored as possible retaliation to the threat of chemical warfare): exposed personnel experienced the marrow hypoplasia and involution of lymphoid tissue previously reported
with sulfur mustard gas during World War I (2). In fact,
the medicinal studies of the related nitrogen mustard by
U.S. governmental agencies in concert with biomedical
researchers at academic institutions such as Yale had
already started in 1942 (3–5) and was further catalyzed by
the search for effective drugs against chronic infections
including tuberculosis (6). This constellation of events led
to the creation of the U.S. National Institutes of Health and
the National Cancer Institute (NCI) that were to play a
pivotal role in launching the era of anticancer chemotherapy. These government entities had the ability to sponsor
scientific exchanges with other national and international
institutions functioning largely unencumbered by profit
motives. They succeeded as a clearing house of ideas to
combat cancer in spite—in retrospect—of the rather primitive understanding of neoplastic growth and its molecular
biology.
With the support of Congress, constituted as part of
the U.S. government’s Public Health Service, the NCI organized programs for the identification of drugs useful in
cancer treatment. Activity against carcinogen-induced
L1210 and P388 leukemias in mice became a criterion for
selectivity of a drug against these rapidly dividing tumor
cells without irreparably harming the host (7). A number
of drugs related to nitrogen mustard and biochemically
designed antimetabolites were shown to have clinical activity, and in spite of the shortcomings of random screening,
successes could be claimed against some human malignancies (8). Collaboration with other governmental agencies
(e.g., the Department of Agriculture) and the pharmaceutical industry also led to the selection of useful natural products, such as the vincas, camptothecins, and taxanes, the
first one mostly developed by the industry and the last
two through the perseverance of NCI-sponsored investigations. Another landmark achievement was the identification of antitumor properties of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and
its eventual potential in the treatment of breast and gastrointestinal cancers by Heidelberger and colleagues (9).

Paul Ehrlich’s introduced the word chemotherapy at the
beginning of the 20th century (10). NCI programs designed
to identify “magic bullets” against cancers therefore adopted
the term “chemotherapy.” Anticancer drugs introduced
since nitrogen mustard became synonymous with chemotherapy and largely predated the more sophisticated
therapies based on molecular targets. Recently, the term
chemotherapy has taken the connotation of a nonspecific
cytotoxic treatment that does not or barely distinguish
between normal and malignant cells in achieving their
eradication. This distorted view of their scientific, albeit
largely empiric development, has resulted in an unfortunate
pejorative meaning of chemotherapy. Chemotherapy drugs
are often linked to toxic events and their intolerance is
reinforced by their use in hopeless circumstances when all
other treatments are exhausted. It is unwarranted to introduce new terminology, but it is worth revisiting the original
concepts to reiterate the term as applying to a chemical
molecule that is exerting a direct antitumor effect.
Endocrine therapy deserves special identification as
a systemic approach for hormone-dependent tumors, which
developed nearly in parallel with chemotherapy. Although
its basis was initially empirical, the identification of hormone receptors in tumors rendered such agents the prime
example of “molecular targeting” and underscored the
importance of identifying and measuring the molecular
targets, especially in selected patients who might benefit
from such intervention.
So what about the newer terms molecularly “targeted” therapies and “biologicals”? The problem with this
terminology is that chemotherapy drugs, even if introduced
by an empirical process of selection—often based on vague
notions of their targets—were later found to be truly molecularly targeted. For example, the camptothecins were
known to be tumor selective (11) before their only target,
topoisomerase I, was identified (12). In other instances, particularly pertaining to antimetabolites, the targets were
quite precisely identified, and differential effects between
tumor and normal cells spurred their development. As
early as 1957, Heidelberger patented 5-FU and directed it
against gastrointestinal cancers (9). However, drugs developed against a particular molecular target, such as against
ras, turn out to have a vast array of actions that make these
compounds hardly molecularly selective (13). To avoid this

27

28

Section I: General Principles

dilemma and to encompass molecules such as monoclonal
antibodies that may have immunological and well as direct
antitumor effects, the word biological is often used. All
three terms are worth utilizing in describing systemic therapy with greater precision (Table 2.1a), until newer more
acceptable terminology is developed. We include gene therapy for completeness, although to date this has been a local
modality. Table 2.1b–e lists the major drug classes and their
most common indications.

Problems with these terminologies are readily apparent
from the examples given: (1) the camptothecin derivatives,
topotecan and irinotecan, are chemotherapeutic drugs that
are precisely molecularly targeted as their actions are only
mediated through topoisomerase I (14); (2) trastuzumab is
the most successful example of a molecularly targeted
agent because patients are selected for treatment by testing
for overexpression or amplification of the Her2 growth
factor receptor (15)—very much the same way endocrine
therapy of breast cancer is linked to the presence of estrogen

Table 2.1a

Terminologies Describing Systemic Therapy of Cancer

Terminology

Description (Table 2.1b–e)

Example(s)

Chemotherapy
Endocrine therapy
Molecularly targeted

Molecule exerting a direct antitumor effect
Interference of hormone-dependent growth
Treatment selected because of known target

Biological therapy
Gene therapy

Therapy indirectly affecting tumors
Therapy delivering genetic information (e.g., to
normalize or sensitize cancer cells)
Utilization of host-effector mechanisms

Cisplatin, topotecan (Table 2.1b)
Tamoxifen in ER+tumors (Table 2.1c)
Trastuzumab in Her2 therapy overexpressed
tumors (Table 2.1d)
Bevacizumab via antiangiogenesis
None (systemic)

Immunotherapy

Rituximab (Table 2.1e)

Abbreviation: ER, estrogen receptor positive.

Table 2.1b–e

Drugs Currently Useful in the Systemic Therapy of Cancer (see also Appendix)

Category

Indications

(b) Chemotherapy
Alkylating drugs
Chlorambucil
Cyclophosphamide
Ifosfamide
Melphalan (PAM)
Nitrogen mustard

CLL, NHL, hairy cell
NHL, breast
NHL, sarcoma
Multiple myeloma
Hodgkin’s lymphoma (HL)

NU: carmustine, semustine
Platinums: cis- and carboplatin
Oxaliplatin
Other
Dacarbazine (DTIC)
Temozolomide
Mitomycin C
Antifolates
Methotrexate
Pemetrexed

Brain tumors, NHL, HL, multiple
myeloma
Germ cell, ovary, lung, H&N, sarcoma

Features of class, drug
Cumulative bone marrow depression
Use in solid tumors largely replaced
Activated by liver microsomes
Activated by liver microsomes
Use in solid tumors largely replaced
Replaced by oral derivatives in all other
indications
Delayed cumulative thrombocytopenia and
nonhematologic toxicities limit their use
Analogs attenuate cisplatin severe emesis and
toxicities other than BM-related ones
Neurotoxicity acute and cumulative

Colon and other GI
Melanoma
Same and brain tumors
Anal cancer
Choriocarcinoma
Mesothelioma, NSC lung

Antimetabolites
Cytarabine
Gemcitabine (dFdC)

AML
Pancreas, breast, ovary, NSC, bile duct

5-FU
Capecitabine
Fludarabine
Hydroxyurea
AzaC, decitabine 6MP, 6TG

Colon, breast, gastric
Colon, breast, gastric
CLL
CML
AML, MDS
ALL

Useful mainly in cutaneous disease
Oral drug, same activation as dacarbazine
Bioreductive radiosensitization
Interfere with folates as cofactors
Dihydrofolate reductase inhibition
Thymidylate synthase (TS) inhibition;
therapeutic index (TI) improved
Utilize metabolite activation pathways
Arabinose instead of ribose in nucleoside
Triphosphate incorporated into DNA; inhibition
of ribonucleotide reductase
TS inhibition, RNA incorporation
Oral prodrug of 5FU
Deaminase inhibitor: immunosuppression
Not used except for ↓WBC acutely
Histone deactelase (HDAC) inhibition
Incorporation into DNA
(Continued)

Chapter 2:

Table 2.1b–e

Principles of Systemic Therapy

29

Drugs Currently Useful in the Systemic Therapy of Cancer (see also Appendix) (Continued)

Category
Mitotic inhibitors
Vincristine
Vinblastine
Vinorelbine
Docetaxel
Paclitaxel
Topoisomerase binders
Topo I: irinotecan
Topotecan
Topo II: dauno-, idaDoxo-, epirubicin
Mitoxantrone
Etoposide
Miscellaneous
Bleomycin
Dactinomycin
(c) Endocrine therapy
LHRH agonists

Indications

Features of class, drug
Affect mitotic spindles; tubulin binding
Dose-limiting neurotoxicity
Replaced in other tumors by vinorelbine
Dose-limiting BM toxicity
Dose-limiting BM toxicity; alopecia
Dose-limiting neurotoxicity; alopecia
Damage via binding of enzyme impeding
DNA religation at break site
Prodrug of SN-38; biliary excretion
Minimal GI toxicity; mostly BM toxicity
Cumulative heart damage, alopecia
Cumulative heart damage, alopecia
Cumulative heart damage, alopecia
Dose-limiting BM toxicity; alopecia
Variably defined mechanisms of action
Pulmonary and cutaneous toxicities
Radiation “recall” first described

ALL, children tumors
HL
Breast, NSC lung
Breast, NSC lung, H&N
Breast, NSC lung, ovary
Colon, SC lung
Ovary, SC lung
AML
Breast, sarcomas
Breast, AML
Germ cell; NHL, HL

Germ cell, HL
Children tumors
Breast (premenopausal), prostate
Breast
Breast
Prostate

Transient increase in gonadal hormones when
first administered
Selective estrogen receptor modulation
Inhibit androgen to estrogen conversion
Androgen receptor modulation

Tamoxifen
Aromatase inhibitors
Antiandrogens
Miscellaneous
Several cytotoxics
Glucocorticoids
Ketoconazole
Progestins
Androgen, estrogen

Breast
Breast, prostate
Prostate
Breast, endometrium
Breast, prostate

Ovarian function suppression
Gonadal and adrenal function suppression

(d) “Targeted” therapy
Erlotinib
Gefitinib
Sunitinib
Sorafenib

Lung, pancreas
Lung in responders
Renal cell, GIST
Renal cell, HCC

EGFR TKI
EGFR TKI
VEGFR TKI, PDGFR TKI
VEGFR TKI, PDGFR TKI, raf

(e) Immunotherapy*
Interferon alpha
Rituximab

Melanoma, KS, RCC
NHL, CLL

Tici-, ipilumimab
Interleukin 2

Melanoma
RCC

May act via nonimmune mechanisms
Anti-CD20, antibody also used as
radioimmunoconjugate with 90Yttrium, 125I
Anti-CTLA4 antibody
Combined with LAK cells

Inhibition of steroidgenesis
Progesterone receptor; indirect effects?
Special circumstances—under study

*Vaccine immunostimulants not included.
Abbreviations: ALL, acute lymphocytic leukemia; AML, acute myelocytic leukemia; NSC, non small cell; BM, bone marrow; H&N, head and neck carcinoma; SC, small
cell; CLL, chronic lymphocytic leukemia; HL, hodgkin’s lymphoma; MDS, myelodysplastic syndrome; KS, Kaposi’s sarcoma; NHL, non hodgkin’s lymphoma; TKI, tyrosine
kinase inhibitor; EGFR, epidermal growth factor receptor; PDGFR, platelet-derived growth factor receptor; VEGFR, vascular endothelium growth factor receptor.

and/or progesterone receptors in cancer cells—but may be
working in part by immunological means (16); (3) bevacizumab inhibits neovascularization via binding to vascular
endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) (17), but some of its
therapeutic efficacy may derive from normalization of a
tumor’s interstitial pressure18 or directly when tumors
express the VEGF receptors (19); and (4) similarly, rituximab’s remarkable effect against lymphomas (20) may be
by directly targeting the tumor cells expressing CD20 or
by activating effector mechanisms (21).
A simpler view consistent with the history of drug
development holds that “targeted therapies” were developed with a molecular target in mind, whereas “cytotoxic

chemotherapies” were identified through empiric screens
looking at cytotoxicity and outcome in preclinical models.
Nevertheless, even these empiric approaches were mostly
directed to rapid proliferation (later recognized to be
mostly a flawed concept) and to DNA damage.

RATIONALE FOR SYSTEMIC THERAPY
Systemic therapy for cancer under the rubric of chemotherapy was first introduced for the treatment of leukemia
and lymphoma, whereas the treatment of “solid tumors”
focused on surgery, radiation, and, whenever applicable,

30

Section I: General Principles

endocrine interventions that were known to influence the
course of breast, endometrial, and prostate cancers. Gradually, experimental systemic therapy provided some palliative benefits and at varying pace it became incorporated
into the treatment strategy for particular cancers. Skipper
and Schabel from Southern Research Institute and under
contract from the NCI developed the rationale for “curative” approaches in murine leukemias and then in solid
tumor mouse models (22). These models introduced the
concept of “log-cell kill” that translated into the clinic for
the need of earlier interventions to achieve complete
responses (CRs) and additional treatments beyond the level
of detectable disease (e.g., micrometastases). These studies
were widely held as the basis for the implementation of
adjuvant therapies in solid tumors where combination chemotherapies were beginning to achieve CRs. In fact, adjuvant therapy of cancer began to be successfully applied
against breast cancer in the 1970s and became the focal
point for similar studies in other common malignancies of
the gastrointestinal and pulmonary tracts (10). Table 2.2
illustrates how the introduction of systemic therapies influenced the outcome of specific cancers with varying degrees
of success and at markedly different speed. These examples
underline the importance of biology and drug discovery
in subsequent achievements, with clinical trials (directed
to adjuvant or metastatic situations, see below) and strategies being subservient to basic knowledge of a disease.
However, clinical oncologists have long understood the
importance of testing novel treatment strategies on the
heels of any discovery: carefully conducted clinical experiments take time and are the essential sequel to any basic
discovery. Recent drug development finally breaking
through the resistance of kidney and hepatocellular cancers
to systemic therapy and the restraining effect of tyrosine
kinase inhibitors such as imatinib mesylate and sunitinib
on the growth of the notoriously chemorefractory metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) underscore the
importance of biology in catalyzing the eventual key role
of systemic therapies in the treatment of these cancers
when they are beyond curative surgery.
The evolution of systemic therapy in these cancers
not only reflect the impact of knowledge of tumor biology,
but also underscore that empirically derived therapy could
be shown through clinical trials to play a role in the treatment of a cancer, even with rudimentary knowledge of
tumor biology. It should be noted, however, that the more
accessible a tumor is for study, such as is the case of
hematologic malignancies, the more tailored the systemic
treatments may become. In solid tumors, a similar evolution is rapidly taking place during the beginning of this
century: for example, a molecular classification of breast
cancers is increasingly determining the kind of systemic
therapy to be applied and the subsets to be studied in
clinical trials in both adjuvant (when there is no evident
disease present after surgery) and metastatic settings. In
colon cancer, the molecular changes underlying the evolution from a normal colonic epithelium to preneoplastic
changes, to adenomas, and subsequently to invasive and
later metastatic adenocarcinoma were first articulated by
Kinzler and Vogelstein (75); these served not only to
emphasize a role for screening, but also to consider their
influence on treatment interventions. In fact, increasingly
we note that molecular features such as microsatellite insta-

bility (76,77) and k-ras mutations (78) may determine the
systemic therapy to be used in both adjuvant (after surgical
resection) and metastatic settings. Epithelial ovarian cancer
and lung cancers are almost universal targets of systemic
treatments after surgery because they are mostly diagnosed
at advanced stages. Varying degrees of success with treatments among histologic subtypes, reflecting differing etiologies and biology served to emphasize the importance of
molecular biology in determining outcome, mostly in relation to “platinum-based” therapies. A recent development,
based on our understanding of the importance of DNA
repair mechanisms to overcome lethality from platinumDNA adducts, renders future selection of systemic therapies
in these diseases dependent in part on the function of
BRCA genes and the expression of ERCC1 (79–81).
The rationale for the concept of “adjuvant” systemic
therapy in lieu of the more difficult treatment of metastatic
disease is challenged when systemic treatment is sufficiently effective that the policy of surveillance—deferring
treatment after surgery for most patients so as to treat only
those that eventually manifest metastases—yields an
equivalent outcome to adjuvant treatment of all patients
(64). In testicular cancer of the seminomatous type, a particularly radiosensitive malignancy that most commonly
presents in clinical stage I, the question is one of “prophylactic” retroperitoneal radiation—a procedure known to
improve outcome over surgery alone since the 1940s
(82)—or substituting it by two cycles of systemic carboplatin, and long-term results of a clinical trial comparing these
policies have recently been presented and debated (83,84).
The outcome of cancers arising in the uterine cervix
or of head and neck origin is more dependent on our ability to control locoregional disease than to the containment
of distant metastases. However, as both local and systemic
treatments are refined, a close interplay between surgery,
radiation, and systemic therapy is likely to represent the
principal direction of modern therapeutics. Concomitant
chemotherapy and radiation have generally yielded more
positive results than the sequential use of these modalities
(85). In locally advanced laryngeal cancer, the most important role played by the use of radiation and chemotherapy
was the preservation of the larynx without compromising
the results of surgery (86). Preservation of function and
lessening of morbidity are also major rationales for the use
of systemic therapy in locally advanced breast cancer,
childhood solid tumors, and bone and soft tissue sarcomas.
Immunotherapy also deserves special mention as a
systemic intervention. For years, discouraging aspects of
systemic therapies for cancer have been the development
of drug resistance, the nearly uniform failure to eradicate
neoplastic cells even if one achieves a CR from a systemic
treatment, and the frequent lack of correlation between
objective responses and overall outcome. Attempts at nonspecifically “boosting” antitumor immunity have been
forthcoming for several decades, with only occasional suggestions of success. Immunologic effects of drugs and
radiation have been shown to enhance the recognition of
the immune system (via dendritic cells) of tumor antigens
leading to long lasting immunity (87,88). This knowledge
and the availability of powerful immune reagents (as well
as better immune monitoring) may enhance the reliability
of these approaches and our ability to overcome the
shortcomings of current systemic approaches.

Chapter 2:

Table 2.2

Principles of Systemic Therapy

31

Tracing the Impact of Systemic Therapy: Highlights in Selected Cancers

Disease: Intervention (Dates) (Refs.)
Breast cancer
a. Endocrine +/– chemotherapy activity (1950–1970) (23–25)

Comments
Cooperative groups lead studies in advanced disease and then focus
on adjuvant treatments

b. Node positive adjuvant studies (1960, 1970–1980); node negative
adjuvant studies (1980): clear benefit (26–28)
c. Primary chemotherapy (neoadjuvant) studies (1985) (29)
d. Her2 as a prognostic factor and target (1990–1999)
e. Trastuzumab adjuvant trial (2004): dramatic gain (30,31)
Colon cancer
a. 5-FU activity against metastases (1957–1970) (32) but no clear
advantage over observation as adjuvant (33)
b. All screened drugs (1970–1998): no activity (34,35)
c. Studies of 5-FU with levamisole, leucovorin, or portal vein infusion
(1990–2004): modest survival benefit
(36–39). rekindles interest
d. Irinotecan and oxaliplatin add to 5-FU’s activity, and FolFOx
becomes standard (2004) (40,41)
e. Bevacizumab and antibodies to EGFR added to chemotherapy:
improved outcomes (2004–present) (42–45)
Lung cancer (nonsmall cell)
a. Minimal impact of chemotherapy in advanced disease (1960–2000);
stages I, II: negative studies (46)
b. Combined modality studies with surgery and radiation: stages IIIA
and IIIB benefit (1990–2000) (49)
c. Positive adjuvant cisplatin trial (2004) (47,48,50)

VA adjuvant studies: interpreted as negative and flawed

Mayo Clinic and NSABP efforts

Activity of platinums and camptothecins
Impact of “Biologicals” gains from surgery on metastases

Cooperative groups: initial focus on small cell; on nonsmall cell focus
on precise staging + systemic treatment

Gains with platinum-based chemotherapy and targeted drugs dispel
pessimism

d. EGFR, antiangiogenesis as targets (2003–2008) (51–54)
Ovarian cancer
a. Alkylating agent era (1950–1972)
b. Nonplatinum combinations (1972–1980) (55)
c. Cisplatin (1979): advantage over combinations (56)
d. Carboplatin (1986) and paclitaxel (1996): to date standard treatment
in early and advanced stages (57,58)
e. Impact of intraperitoneal (ip) cisplatin meta-analysis
(2006) (59–61)
f. Wide testing of targeted therapies, especially bevacizumab
Testis cancer
a. Actinomycin D, alkylating, and vinca : CRs (1950s–1970s) (62)
b. Vinblastine + bleomycin regimen (1970–1972) (63)
c. Introduction of cisplatin and integration to b (64)
d. Cisplatin-based chemotherapy and focus on cisplatin failures:
high-dose, ifosfamide, taxanes (65)
Prostate cancer
a. Castration applied since 1930s; acid phosphatase (68)
b. Estrogens and later antiandrogens in palliation (1960–1990s) (69,70);
PSA to monitor disease (1980s) (71,72)
c. Chemotherapy trials showing improved outcomes (quality of life; later
survival) (2000–2006)
d. “Targeted” therapies through understanding of hormonal independence
mechanisms (73,74)

Brief remissions and minimal improvement with combinations
Cisplatin and the less toxic carboplatin: steady strides including ip
delivery
Modest improvement with taxanes, liposomal doxorubicin,
gemcitabine, and topotecan

Activity of bevacizumab

Response emulates choriocarcinoma
Curative in nearly ¼
With cisplatin cures from 60–90% (67)
Focus now is in (1) how to avoid resistance; (2) new agents (66)

Androgen dependence
Failures: hormonal independence
Impact of mitoxantrone + prednisone; docetaxel
Ongoing exploration of molecular targets

32

Section I: General Principles

With our expanding body of knowledge and therapeutic armamentarium focused on human neoplasia, we
also have witnessed the dissemination of pseudoscientific
treatments based on poorly conceived or poorly documented, often sweeping, concepts that claim to boost the
immune system, provide “antioxidant” protection, specifically starve tumor cells from detrimental nutrients. These
pseudoscientific fads ranged from harmless, nonspecific ways
to enhance quality of life and overcome noxious effects of
our therapies, to downright dangerous natural products
spiked with anticoagulants and high-dose estrogens (89),
and even to harmful immune “boosters” contaminated
by viruses such as HIV and hepatitis (90). “Hypothesis
generating” concepts should remain hypothesis generating
until backed by clinically tested well-documented trials
(and not a series of anecdotes). More sophisticated technically driven innovations also deserve mention as they
increasingly compete with the application of systemic therapies. Ablation of liver metastases employing radiofrequency ablation or cryoablation (among several other
techniques) has achieved a role in the management of
colon cancer metastatic to the liver complementary or in
lieu of resection (91). These and other technical feats that
result from stereotactic delivery of radiation to a metastatic
site appeal to patients and their therapists. However, we
should expect that the compilation of results in a particular disease setting be held to the same scrutiny and level
of evidence demanded of systemic therapies.

TREATMENT REGIMENS: PRINCIPLES OF
COMBINATIONS, PHARMACOLOGY, DOSE
SCHEDULE, AND SUPPORTIVE CARE
The development of treatment regimen is a complex enterprise that most often follows sequentially on the heels of a
prior regimen that had been adopted in a prior clinical trial.
During the latter part of the 20th century, clinical investigators followed basic principles for the development of drug
combinations, always hopeful that such regimens would
result in improved outcome and avoid the emergence of
drug resistance by analogy to antibiotics in the anti-infectious
field. These “clinical” principles included (1) single agent
activity against the cancer in question (this concept drove
most phase II studies with single agents as a necessary step
for their eventual integration into the “standard regimen,”
(2) minimally overlapping toxicities (ever mindful to the
need of avoiding dangerous levels of bone marrow suppression before the era of hematopoietic growth factor support),
and (3) differing mechanisms of action—this was an impetus for new drug discovery—rather than analogue development that was commonplace at the beginning of the
chemotherapy era (92). These concepts still provide useful
guidelines to current regimen development algorithms;
however, increasingly the principles have been expanded,
in one dimension, current regimens should include pharmacologic backup, exploration of dose schedules, and reliance
on supportive care measures to minimize toxicities, and in
another dimension, we now seek the integration of drug
effects not only on the tumor cells, but also on the host and
the tumor microenvironment (see next paragraph).
Mathematical modeling of what may represent synergistic, additive, and subadditive effects between two

drugs have received much attention (93) and are obviously
exponentially more complex as one examines the effect of
three drugs in combination. In evolving “rational” treatment regimens, drug combination strategies were designated as sequential or concurrent biochemical blockades
primarily applicable to antimetabolites or other forms of
complementary blockade that included other forms of
DNA damage (94). The hallmarks of neoplasia by Hanahan
and Weinberg (95) have been used to illustrate the range
of targets to which we direct our current treatments. Within
this new view, it may be useful to consider analogous
concepts for certain drug combinations: for example, vertical blockade may refer to combined treatments of a molecule directed against a ligand with a molecule that
inhibits receptor action (e.g., bevacizumab with sorafenib)
(96) and horizontal blockade to the combination of a drug
directed against the tumor cells and the endothelium (e.g.,
a taxane) coupled with a drug directed to the pericytes
(e.g., imatinib mesylate) (97).
Whether used as a single agent or as part of a combined regimen, pharmacological principles need to be broadly
considered, particularly because clinical situations have
become inordinately complex: most patients are usually on
a number of nonantineoplastic medications and profound
ethnic variations in drug metabolism and tolerance have
emerged. Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of
anticancer drugs appear within several chapters; here we
wish to mention the importance of knowing whether a
drug is metabolized by the cytochrome p450 enzymatic
machinery or is a substrate of a particular isoform, how
much a role does renal excretion play, and pharmacodynamic effect of age—among others—in drug dosing. Studies addressing pharmacology in the presence of hepatic or
renal dysfunction have been instituted in the development
of recent anticancer drugs. In addition, the validity of dosing all anticancer drugs by per-square-meter base rather
than on a strictly weight basis or on flat dosing has been
increasingly questioned. Examples of flat dosing perhaps
being advantageous may be found in studies looking at
the oral 5-FU prodrug, capecitabine; the proteasome inhibitor, bortezomib (98); and the new generation vinca alkaloid,
vinorelbine (99). In particular, with capecitabine, adherence
to the dose schedule that was approved by the FDA and
dose its modification in the presence of toxicities has been
problematic, clinicians have been guided by practical considerations and titration to patient tolerance that are likely counterproductive (100). Moreover, the package insert prescribed
dose reductions because of toxicity as opposed to shortening
the days of drug administration run the risk of resulting
in totally inadequate dose levels of the active drug.
The dose schedule of a given regimen is generally
derived from the phase I, II, and III studies carried out to
demonstrate drug efficacy and obtain an indication. In
adjuvant settings with curative implications, one should
not deviate from these prescribed “package-insert” regimens without good reasons. In the treatment of metastatic
disease, the situation is more complex: regimens gain
approval for having demonstrated efficacy often based on
surrogate end points (e.g., prolongation of progression-free
survival) and less commonly on improved overall survival.
Moreover, the results may be achieved at a cost of considerably greater toxicity or are only applicable to the subset
of patients entered into the trial. Finally, many more studies

Chapter 2:

and regimens are available for the metastatic setting than
for adjuvant studies; this results in greater latitude in what
becomes “standard” treatment and what dose schedule of
a regimen to use. There is no substitute for experiencing
a particular regimen in rendering such a treatment useful
and safe for a patient in need of palliative treatment.
Increasingly, the approaches to metastases of common cancers have established a hierarchy of treatments beyond first
line, extending all the way to second and third and occasionally beyond. This situation occurs not only because of
the availability of a number of competing treatments with
differing mechanisms of action and reasonable therapeutic
indices, but also in view of our better ability to assess the
disease and its progression under the preceding treatment,
more easily allowing subsequent interventions. Although
innumerable palliative treatments directed to a particular
patient have raised issues of their appropriateness, one
must recognize that these are most often because of early
detection of progression and not the result of truculence
or poor judgment on the part of the therapist. Risk-benefit
issues, often including economic considerations, are
addressed in a later section.
Dose intensity retrospective calculations were initially
introduced by Hryniuk and coworkers (55) to emphasize
the importance of dose in achieving optimal results. Eventually, the assumptions that each drug in a combination
contributed equally to such outcome were deemed too simplistic, but the concept of dose density modeled by Norton
and Simon (101) was prospectively tested in clinical trials
of metastatic breast cancer (102) and attained validation.
Of course, growth factors to accelerate myelopoiesis had
become available and permitted the safe administration of
myelosuppressive regimens on every 2 weeks rather than
every 3 weeks. Filgrastim and peg-filgrastim have been
widely used in developing regimens that maximize dose
density and dose rate, although proof of their superiority
over conventional regimens lacking these growth factors
must be obtained in every specific instance (103). Nevertheless, dose dense regimens, regardless of proof of superiority,
do lead to early completion of the treatment course that may
be preferred logistically (such as in preoperative situations).
Currently these agents are advocated routinely to avoid
febrile neutropenia, if the likelihood of such development for
a given regimen exceeds 20% (104).
Other supportive care measures during drug treatment
may have subtle effects on outcome associated with a given
treatment regimen that are not so easily expected or quantified. The recent adverse outcomes in association with
concomitant administration of erythropoietic agents to
ameliorate fatigue from chemotherapy (105) and with calcium/magnesium repletion to prevent neuropathy during
oxaliplatin (106) are general and specific examples, respectively. However, it is possible that beneficial effects may
extend beyond their anticipated “supportive care” effects.
Although speculative, one may hypothesize that the
improved outcome in ovarian cancer trials following the
introduction of HT3 blockers to avoid platinum emesis is
a result to complete the treatment as well as to tolerate
better subsequent treatments (107). A more current example is the use of metformin to treat hyperglycemia with
IGF1-R directed antibodies—metformin as a drug has its
own antitumor effects and may be additive to the regimen
under study (108).

Principles of Systemic Therapy

33

A KEY QUESTION: SEQUENTIAL VS. COMBINATION?
In the third section we pointed out the advantage of concomitant versus sequential treatment when chemotherapy
is given in combination with radiation in certain cancers
such as those arising in the head and neck area. The advantage of a such combined approach was further derived from
several trials in locally advanced cancers of the uterine
cervix. Historically, such combined radiation + drug
approaches were limited to agents thought to be radiosensitizers; such combinations had radiotherapy as the main
stay of treatment along with doses of the relevant drug(s)—
such as 5-FU—at the beginning and at the end of treatment
(109). Both efficacy and side effects increased in the combination compared to radiotherapy alone. As more effective
agents such as cisplatin became available, the combinatorial
effect proved beneficial to enhance local tumor control and
to augment overall tumor eradication. In other tumor types,
such as breast, esophageal, lung cancers, pancreatic, and
anorectal, combinations of chemotherapy and radiation
have been examined in multiple trials with regard to timing
of the two modalities (85). The idea of sequencing emerged
to avoid side effects, as both morbidity and occasionally
excess mortality were associated with concomitant administration. Although trial design has been quite variable, in
many of these different tumor types the concomitant effect
has generally proved more effective. The drugs that have
“synergized” with radiation include the platinums and
5-FU already cited, as well as taxanes, vinca alkaloids, gemcitabine, and mitomycin C.
Concomitant systemic therapy with radiation is
attractive conceptually and this extends beyond the use of
cytotoxic agents. In rectal cancer, Willet et al. published on
a small experience suggesting that bevacizumab enhanced
the results of radiation and chemotherapy (18). Experience
in breast cancer, both preclinically and clinically, supports
the use of trastuzumab in Her2 overexpressing tumors
concomitantly with radiation (110). EGFR inhibition, similarly, enhances the antitumor effects of radiation in head
and neck cancers (111). Trastuzumab also overcomes mechanisms of radiation resistance. All these considerations
support the concomitant approach over sequential use of
chemoradiation.
With chemotherapy and with combinations of “targeted” therapies, however, the case for combined versus
sequential must be reconsidered in nearly all instances
where combinations have been developed and established.
Traditionally, multiagent chemotherapy was mostly developed for the treatment of leukemia, lymphomas, and breast
cancer in the 1960s and widely established its value in clinical trials in the 1970s. The current situation is much more
complex. Multiple agent combinations have often been
reduced to doublets, and even such two-drug combinations
are often not persuasively more effective than sequential
single agents. The trend of shedding drugs from multidrug
combinations of borderline efficacy in the treatment of cancers of the bladder, breast, lung, and ovary, as examples,
began in the early 1980s and has resulted in the use of
doublets in many instances. This has permitted optimal dosing of drug combinations and has furthermore fostered the
integration of the newer “targeted” drugs into such regimens. In colon cancer, this situation did not apply because
up to the 1990s 5-FU given alone or with “biochemical

34

Section I: General Principles

modulators” such as leucovorin was the only drug with
efficacy against this disease and multiple attempts at combination regimens including drugs such as nitrosoureas,
mitomycin C, other alkylating agents, and cisplatin resulted
in enhanced toxicity with no increased efficacy (34).
Adequately powered clinical trials showing an
advantage of a combination over single agents have been
published recently to gain approval of an additional agent
for metastatic breast cancer. As background in this setting,
the study by Sledge et al (112). failed to show that paclitaxel + doxorubicin was superior in progression-free
survival to either single agent. Subsequently, however,
capecitabine received full approval for treatment of breast
cancer when it showed an advantage in combination with
docetaxel over docetaxel alone (113); an approval for gemcitabine was also obtained when gemcitabine combined
with paclitaxel proved superior in progression-free survival to paclitaxel alone (114). In both these instances, a
substantial number of these patients did not cross over to
receive the other drug and begged the question of whether
the more toxic combination would be superior to the optimal use of the sequential single agents.
A similar scenario has been seen in the treatment of
ovarian cancer both in first-line trials (Table 2.3) and when
it recurs after an interval of 6 months or greater from the
last platinum-based induction treatment (Table 2.4). This
last situation is considered operationally as defining a
“platinum-sensitive” recurrence—that is, a situation where
a platinum such as cisplatin or carboplatin would yield the
best outcome. Table 2.4 shows the results of randomized
trials that show the contribution to the outcome of adding
a specific nonplatinum drug to carboplatin in comparison
to the platinum alone (or in the instance of ICON4, also
to other platinum-based combinations). Only in the largest
randomized trial was there a difference in survival, but
overall the contribution of the second drug, although seemingly statistically significant was still quite modest. In firstline setting, no differences were noted in the two trials
(attributed in part to preemptive crossover) examining
platinum + paclitaxel combination when it was compared
to another doublet before widespread availability of the
taxane upon failure of first-line treatment.

TYPES OF INTERVENTION (COMBINED MODALITY,
INDUCTION, CONSOLIDATION, MAINTENANCE)
Surgery and radiation have traditionally come to play
complementary roles in targeting local control of the disease when it is beyond cure by either modality alone.
Examples of such complementary role include radiation of
the pelvis following hysterectomy for “high or intermediate risk” stage I endometrial cancer, preoperative or postoperative radiation for rectal cancer beyond stage I,
postoperative radiation in high Gleason score prostate cancer, radiation of the surgical scar in advanced mesothelioma. These complementary indications have been
absorbed into “combined modality” as systemic therapies
increasingly play a role either preoperatively or as an adjuvant to surgery, or as chemoradiation instead of radiation
alone in other circumstances. Combined modality treatment
is currently being tested or has become preferred in locally
advanced cancers of various head and neck sites, rectum,

stomach, cervix, and prostate. In stage IIIB nonsmall cell
lung cancer, definitive chemoradiotherapy alone with no
further surgery has demonstrated equal efficacy to postoperative chemoradiotherapy combination. In endometrial
cancer, it is the pelvic radiation that is being eliminated,
as chemotherapy has taken more of an adjuvant role in
situations associated with high probability of recurrences.
Combined modality treatment of either resectable or locally
advanced inoperable pancreatic cancer has been the subject
of several trials but it is controversial whether chemoradiation has an advantage in either situation over no further
treatment or chemotherapy alone, respectively.
In childhood malignancies, such as rhabdomyosarcomas, Ewing’s sarcoma, other bone and soft tissue sarcomas,
Wilms’ tumors, neuroblastomas, and non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas, combined modality has long been established but
trials are ongoing to reduce the need for radiation and to
study its long-term effects on normal growth as systemic
therapy improves. This toxicity-reduction objective is
behind many ongoing clinical trials in situations where
high cure rates have been achieved.
The terminology to describe the application of various nonsurgical therapies reflects the underlying concepts
of how they are used: initial treatment with drugs or radiation is referred to as induction, and this is followed by
consolidation when another form of treatment is applied as
part of the initial plan and delivered without intervening
relapse. Consolidation with radiation was a commonplace
postoperative treatment in many conditions where local
relapse was frequent. However, postoperative radiation of
kidney cancer, endometrial cancer, and uterine leiomyosarcomas, among others, was associated with fewer local
recurrences but no difference in overall survival because it
had no effect on distant metastases. Consolidation can also
be achieved with delivery of intracavitary radiation—as
has been done in ovarian cancer albeit without success and
also by giving additional drugs—a maneuver also without
success in ovarian cancer. Maintenance is the use of a drug
or drug regimen given as induction and then continued
beyond the achievement of a maximal response or evidence of persistent disease. Maintenance is the rule in
situations where only partial responses or disease stabilization is achieved. However, it can also be used after CR if
the risk for recurrence is notoriously high—for example,
after a clinical CR following induction chemotherapy for
stage IIIC ovarian cancer. This situation has a median
relapse-free survival of 18–24 months. One study by the
GOG showed that every 4-weekly paclitaxel extended the
median relapse-free survival by 7 months in patients receiving 12 additional treatments compared to those who
received only 3 additional treatments (124).

CLINICAL TRIALS, MEASURES OF OUTCOME,
QUALITY OF LIFE, AND TOXICITY
Phase I and phase II trials provide the initial building
blocks of systemic therapy and are increasingly designed
to establish pharmacokinetic parameters, and in the case
of “targeted therapies” validation of pharmacodynamic
end points to ensure that the target has been reached.
Phase III trials were of various kinds such as exploratory,
explanatory, or confirmatory, that is, to set a new standard

Chapter 2:

Table 2.3

35

Principles of Systemic Therapy

Paclitaxel/Platinum Combinations in Randomized First-Line Advanced Ovarian Cancer Trials

Trial

Treatment regimens

GOG-132 (115)

Paclitaxel (135 mg/m2, 24 hr) and
cisplatin (75 mg/m2)

MRC-ICON3 (116)

No. of patients

Percentage of early
crossover

Progression-free
survival (mo)

Overall
survival (mo)

201

22

14.2

26.6

Cisplatin (100 mg/m2)

200

40

16.4

30.2

Paclitaxel (200 mg/m2, 24 hr)

213

23

11.2*

26

Paclitaxel (175 mg/m , 3 hr) and
carboplatin AUC 6

478

23

17.3

36.1

Carboplatin AUC 6

943

25

16.1

35.4

Paclitaxel (175 mg/m , 3 hr) and
carboplatin AUC 6

232

23

17

40

Cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m2) and
doxorubicin (75 mg/m2) and cisplatin
(75 mg/m2)

421

20

17

40

Paclitaxel (135 mg/m2, 24 hr) and
cisplatin (75 mg/m2)

184

None

18

38

Cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m2) and
cisplatin (75 mg/m2)

202

None

13*

24*

Paclitaxel (175 mg/m2, 3 hr) and
cisplatin (75 mg/m2)

162

None

15.5

35.6

Cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m2) and
cisplatin (75 mg/m2)

161

4

11.5*

25.8*

2

2

GOG-111 (117)

OV-10 (118)

*Statistically significant (p ≤ 0.05) differences versus other arms.
Source: Adapted from Physician Data Query (www.cancer.gov).

Table 2.4

Example of Combinations vs. Single Agents in “Platinum-Sensitive” Ovarian Cancer Recurrence

Eligibility

Platinum regimen

Platinum sensitive
Platinum sensitive

Cisplatin + doxorubicin +
cyclophosphamide
Carboplatin + epirubicin

190

Carboplatin

Platinum sensitive

Carboplatin + gemcitabine

356

Carboplatin

Platinum sensitive

Cisplatin or carboplatin +
paclitaxel
Carboplatin + pegylated
liposomal doxorubicin

802

Single or nontaxane +
platinums
None

Platinum sensitive

Patient no.

104

treatment (125). Clinical trials—particularly randomized
phase III trials—are the main source of information for
systemic treatments given under various circumstances.
Not only do they provide information about relative efficacy, but they are also repositories of vast amounts of
toxicity data collected in a uniform way. Both acute and
long-range effects are within the scope of clinical trials. For
example, serial studies by the GOG have clearly documented renal toxicities associated with cisplatin to remarkably increase as one goes from 75 mg/m2 per cycle to a
dose of 100 mg/m2 per cycle. Studies done by the national
surgical adjuvant breast and bowel project (NSABP) and
other cooperative groups have also documented that escalating doxorubicin dose beyond 60 mg/m2/cycle is not associated with improved outcome in breast cancer adjuvant
settings; similarly, escalating cyclophosphamide beyond

Comparator

Comments on outcome (Ref.)

Paclitaxel

Randomized phase II; CAP superior
PFS, OS (119)
Powered for response differences;
OS 17 vs. 15 m (120)
PFS 8.6 m vs. 5.8 m OS 18 m vs.
17 m (121)
PFS 11 m vs. 9 m OS 24 m vs.
19 m (122)
PFS 9 m, median OS 32 m (123)

600 mg/m2/cycle is counterproductive. A systemic therapy
applied under specific circumstances to be approved by
regulatory agencies must provide evidence of survival
advantage or an appropriate surrogate such as progressionfree survival over a similar outcome following standard
therapy, or having similar efficacy while improving quality
of life. As therapeutic regimens become more complex and
are approved for various lines of treatment, the use of surrogate end points becomes inevitable for newer upfront
regimens to be established as survival may be influenced
by a number of variables after the study regimen is applied.
Rarely, information on the impact of systemic therapies can
be gleaned by studying large population-based data collections such as SEER and Medicare. Chapter 4 (by Parulekar,
Eisenhauer, and Gelber) expands on the design, execution,
and analysis of clinical trials.

36

Section I: General Principles

RISK/BENEFIT RATIO
In the application of any systemic therapy, the risk/benefit
ratio is an underlying theme that underscores the validity
of its use for specific circumstance at hand. Such issues are
often discussed in the context of patients who have comorbidities or who have failed multiple other therapies and
therefore do not fulfill the criteria that is inherent in the
use of a certain regimen. Under these special circumstances,
clinical trials offer little further insight. Ultimately, one
proceeds with the treatment based on the therapist’s individual experience and after thorough information of both
risks and potential benefits.
In some instances, the trial itself “pushes the envelope” in testing treatments that have inherent greater risks
but a greater potential for achieving long-term benefit. Trials during the 1990s greatly expanded the exploration of
high-dose chemotherapy in breast cancer that had very
adverse prognostic features such as more than 10 positive
lymph nodes at the outset. A major criticism of this
approach, however, was that comparative studies were not
done because of the inherent assumption that only the ratio
was being tested, and therefore if the risk could be diminished, the benefit was indisputable. Comparative trials,
however, failed to show improved benefits from this
approach.
Economic factors are also often brought to this equation in the application of systemic therapies. However,
economic factors may be arbitrarily set and are, therefore,
often spurious or of secondary importance in decision
making. This statement does not necessarily imply the
endorsement of measures regardless of cost or excluding
prioritization of treatments based on costs; however, such
decisions should probably be made at levels beyond those
of an oncology service.

A GLIMPSE INTO THE FUTURE
Therapeutic advances are occurring at an accelerated pace,
but quantum leaps in tumor eradication and survival are
often coupled with insight into tumor biology that had
been acquired prior to the introduction of a new agent.
The saga of imatinib mesylate and its effect on chronic
myelogenous leukemia comes to mind: it followed decades
of delineation of chromosomal changes and then identification of the bcr-abl oncogene (126). As an important sideline
in its development, documenting that imatinib is a receptor
tyrosine kinase (RTK) that inhibited c-kit in nanomolar
concentrations led to discovering its beneficial effects in
patients with metastatic GIST (127). Such findings stimulated development of other RTKs that have found their
way into oncologic treatment. The remarkable effects of the
antibody to the VEGF on improving outcome in colon,
lung, breast, and likely ovarian cancers capped three
decades of antiangiogenic research by the pioneering efforts
of Judah Folkman (128), subsequently joined by many others. The anti-VEGF antibody, bevacizumab, the anti-CD20
antibody, rituximab (129), and the anti-Her1 antibody, trastuzumab (130), are examples of monoclonal antibody technology that became established in therapeutics nearly three
decades after the Nobel Prize in medicine was awarded
for such development (131). Finally, one of the most

remarkable therapeutic achievements, the development of
platinum drugs, followed empiric observations (92). It
should not be lost on us that deciphering the remarkable
selectivity of these agents for certain tumors may open the
way for additional breakthroughs. Moreover, once the systemic therapy is remarkably curative, it revolutionizes the
overall approach to the disease.
Looking back at our successes indicates that though
we must continue to seek the “lock and key” approach to
overcome a neoplastic transformation, answers for most
of our common forms of neoplasia will continue to come
from multiple approaches. Expecting that all treatment
will be “targeted” and that all our current cytotoxic treatments will play no role in the ensuing decades is likely to
prove an erroneous prediction. “Personalized medicine”
has become a favorite expression, but it is likely to be less
about personalization and more about evolving logical
strategies that can increasingly provide better outcomes
through insight of tumor biology, diagnosis, and therapeutic
trials.

REFERENCES
1. Hirsh J. An anniversary for cancer chemotherapy. JAMA
2006; 296: 1518–20.
2. Krumbaar EB. Role of the blood and the bone marrow in
certain forms of gas poisoning. 1. Peripheral blood changes
and their significance. JAMA 1919; 72: 39–41.
3. Goodman LS, Gilman A. The pharmacological basis of therapeutics (Section XV). In: Drugs Used in the Chemotherapy
of Neoplastic Disease, 2nd edn. New York: The Macmillan
Company, 1958: 1414–50.
4. Goodman LS, Wintrobe MM, Dameshek W et al. Nitrogen
mustard therapy. JAMA 1946; 132: 126–32.
5. Rhoads CP. Nitrogen mustard in the treatment of neoplastic
disease. JAMA 1946; 131: 656–8.
6. Zubrod CG. Chemical control of cancer. Proc Natl Acad Sci
(USA) 1972; 69: 1042–7.
7. Skipper HE. Cancer chemotherapy is many things: G.H.A.
Clowes Memorial Lecture. Cancer Res 1971; 31: 1173–9.
8. Zubrod CG. Agents of choice in neoplastic disease. In:
Sartorelli AC, Johns DG, eds. Antineoplastic and Immunosuppressive Agents I. New York: Springer Verlag, 1974: 1–11.
9. Heidelberger C, Chaudhuari NK, Danenberg P et al. Fluorinated
pyrimidines: a new class of tumor inhibitory compounds.
Nature 1957; 179: 663–6.
10. DeVita VT Jr, Oliverio VT, Muggia FM et al. The drug
development and clinical trials program of the Division of
Cancer Treatment, National Cancer Institute. Cancer Clin
Trials 1979; 2: 195–216.
11. Muggia FM, Creaven PJ, Hansen HH et al. Phase I clinical
trial of weekly and daily schedules of camptothecin
(NSC 100880): Correlation with preclinical studies. Cancer
Chemother Rep 1972; 56: 515–21.
12. Liu LF, Depew RE, Wang JC. Knotted single-stranded DNA
rings: a novel topological isomer of single-stranded circular
DNA formed by E. coli omega protein treatment. J Mol Biol
1976; 106: 439–52.
13. Reuter CWM, Morgan MA, Bergmann L. Targeting the ras
signaling pathway: a rational, mechanism-based treatment
for hematologic malignancies? Blood 2000; 96: 1656–69.
14. Hsiang YH, Liu LF. Identification of mammalian DNA
topoisomerase I as an intracellular target of the anticancer
drug camptothecin. Cancer Res 1988; 48: 1722–6.
15. Slamon D, Leyland-Jones B, Shak S et al. Use of chemotherapy plus a monoclonal antibody agains HER2 for metastatic

Chapter 2:

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.
25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.
33.

34.
35.

breast cancer that overexpresses HER2. N Engl J Med 2001;
344: 783–92.
Disis ML, Gooley TA, Rinn K et al. Generation of T-cell
immunity to the Her-2/neu protein after active immunization with anti Her-2/neu peptide vaccines. J Clin Oncol
2002; 20: 2624–32.
Gasparini G, Longo R, Toi M et al. Angiogenic inhibitors: a
new therapeutic strategy in oncology. Nat Clin Pract Oncol
2005; 2: 562–77.
Willett CG, Duda DG, di Tomaso E et al. Complete pathological response to bevacizumab and chemoradiation in
advanced rectal cancer. Nat Clin Pract Oncol 2004; 10:
145–7.
Schmidt M, Voelker HU, Kapp M et al. Expression of VEGFR-1 (Flt-1) in breast cancer is associated with VEGF expression and with node-negative tumour stage. Anticancer Res
2008; 28: 1719–24.
McLaughlin P, Grillo-Lopez A, Link B et al. Rituximab chimeric anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody therapy for relapsed
indolent lymphoma: half of patients respond to a four-dose
treatment program. J Clin Oncol 1998; 16: 5825–33.
Cartron G, Dacheux L, Salles G et al. Therapeutic activity
of humanized anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody and polymorphism in IgG Fc receptor FcgammaRIIIa gene. Blood 2002;
99: 754–8.
A memorial issue for Dr. Frank M. Schabel Jr containing
articles prepared for the symposium on dose-response relationship in clinical oncology. 13th International Congress of
Chemotherapy. Vienna, Austria, August 1983. Cancer 1984;
4(Suppl 6): 1132–1238.
Muggia FM, Cassileth PA, Ochoa M Jr et al. Treatment of
breast cancer with medroxyprogesterone acetate. Ann Int
Med 1968; 68: 328–77.
Segaloff A. Hormonal therapy of breast cancer. Cancer Treat
Rev 1975; 2: 129–35.
Greenspan EM, Fieber M, Lesnick G et al. Response of
advanced breast carcinoma to the combination of the antimetabolite, methotrexate and the alkylating agent, thio-TEPA.
J Mt Sinai Hosp 1963; 30: 246–67.
Bonadonna G, Brussamolini E, Valagussa P et al. Combination chemotherapy as an adjuvant treatment in operable
breast cancer. N Eng J Med 1976; 294: 405–10.
Zambetti M, Valagussa P. Sequential or alternating doxorubicin and CMF regimens in breast cancer with more than
three positive nodes. JAMA 1995; 273: 542–7.
Fisher B, Redmond C, Wickerham DL et al. Doxorubicincontaining regimens for the treatment of stage II breast cancer. The National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel
Project experience. J Clin Oncol 1990; 8: 1483–96.
Bonadonna G, Veronesi U, Brambilla C et al. Primary chemotherapy to avoid mastectomy in tumors with diameters
of three centimeters or more. J Natl Cancer Inst 1990; 82:
1539–45.
Romond EH, Perez EA, Bryant J et al. Trastuzumab plus
adjuvant chemotherapy for operable HER2-positive breast
cancer. N Engl J Med 2005; 353: 1673–84.
Smith I, Procter M, Gelber RD et al. 2-year follow-up of
trastuzumab after adjuvant chemotherapy in HER2-positive
breast cancer: a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2007;
369: 29–36.
Ansfield FJ, Schroeder JM, Curreri AR. Five years clinical
experience with 5-fluorouracil. JAMA 1962; 181: 295–9.
Higgins G, Humphrey E, Juler G et al. Adjuvant chemotherapy in the surgical treatment of large bowel cancer.
Cancer 1976; 38: 1461–7.
Muggia FM. Closing the loop: providing feedback on drug
development (Editorial). Cancer Treat Rep 1987; 71: 1–2.
Moertel CG. Chemotherapy for colorectal cancer. N Eng J
Med 1994; 330: 1136–42.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

47.
48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

Principles of Systemic Therapy

37

Petrelli N, Herrera L, Rustum Y et al. A prospective randomized trial of 5-fluorouracil versus 5-fluorouracil and high-dose
leucovorin versus 5-fluorouracil and methotrexate in previously untreated patients with advanced colorectal carcinoma. J Clin Oncol 1987; 5: 1559–65.
Petrelli N, Douglass HO Jr, Herrera L et al. The modulation of fluorouracil with leucovorin in metastatic colorectal carcinoma: a prospective randomized phase III trial.
Gastrointestinal Tumor Study Group. J Clin Oncol 1987;
7: 1419–26.
Moertel C, Fleming TR, Macdonald JS et al. Fluoruracil plus
levamisole as effective adjuvant therapy after resection of
stage III colon carcinoma: a final report. Ann Intern Med
1995; 122: 321–6.
Wolmark N, Rockette H, Fisher B et al. The benefit of
leucovorin-modulated fluoruracil as post-operative adjuvant
therapy for primary colon cancer: results from National
Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project protocol C-03.
J Clin Oncol 1993; 11: 1879–87.
de Gramont A, Figer A, Seymour M et al. Leucovorin and
fluorouracil with or without oxaliplatin as first-line treatment in advanced colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2000;
18: 2938–47.
Douillard JY, Cunningham D, Roth AD et al. Irinotecan
combined with fluorouracil compared with fluorouracil
alone as first-line treatment for metastatic colorectal cancer:
a multicentre randomised trial. Lancet 2000; 355: 1041–7.
Hurwitz H, Fehrenbacher L, Novotny W et al. Bevacizumab
plus irinotecan, fluorouracil, and leucovorin for metastatic
colorectal cancer. N Engl J Med 2004; 350: 2335–42.
Sargent DJ, Patiyil S, Yothers G et al. End points for colon
cancer adjuvant trials: observations and recommendations
based on individual patient data from 20,898 patients
enrolled onto 18 randomized trials from the ACCENT
Group. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 4569–74. Epub 2007 Sep 17.
Goldberg RM, Sargent DJ, Morton RF et al. Randomized
controlled trial of reduced-dose bolus fluorouracil plus
leucovorin and irinotecan or infused fluorouracil plus leucovorin and oxaliplatin in patients with previously untreated
metastatic colorectal cancer: a North American Intergroup
Trial. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 3347–53.
De Roock W, Piessevaux H, De Schutter J et al. KRAS wildtype state predicts survival and is associated to early radiological response in metastatic colorectal cancer treated with
cetuximab. Ann Oncol 2008; 19: 508–15. Epub 2007 Nov 12.
Hansen HH, Muggia FM, Andrews RJ et al. Intensive
combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy in patients with
non-resectable bronchogenic carcinoma. Cancer 1972; 30:
315–24.
Legha SS, Muggia FM, Carter SK. Adjuvant chemotherapy in
lung cancer: review and prospects. Cancer 1977; 39: 1415–24.
Holmes EC, Hill LD, Gail M. A randomized comparison of
the effects of adjuvant therapy on resected stages II and III
non-small cell carcinoma of the lung. The Lung Cancer
Study Group. Ann Surg 1985; 202: 335–41.
Le Chevalier T, Arriagada R, Quoix E et al. Radiotherapy
alone versus combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy in
unnresectable non-small-cell lung carcinoma. Lung Cancer
1994; 10(Suppl 1): S239–44.
Non-small cell lung cancer collaborative group. Chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis using
updated data on individual patients from 52 randomised
clinical trials. BMJ 1995; 311: 899–909.
Pérez-Soler R, Chachoua A, Hammond LA et al. Determinants of tumor response and survival with erlotinib in
patients with non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2004;
22: 3238–47.
Shepherd FA, Pereira J, Ciuleanu TE et al. Erlotinib in previously treated NSCLC. N Engl J Med 2005; 353: 123–32.

38
53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

65.

66.

67.

68.

69.

Section I: General Principles
Kris MG, Natale RB, Herbst RS et al. Efficacy of gefitinib,
an inhibitor of the epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine
kinase, in symptomatic patients with non-small cell lung
cancer: a randomized trial. JAMA 2003; 290: 2149–58.
Sandler A, Gray R, Perry MC et al. Paclitaxel-carboplatin
alone or with bevacizumab for non-small-cell lung cancer.
N Engl J Med 2006; 355: 2542–50. Erratum in: N Engl J Med
2007; 356: 318.
Levin L, Simon R, Hryniuk W. Importance of multiagent
chemotherapy regimens in ovarian carcinoma: dose intensity
analysis. J Natl Cancer Inst 1993; 5: 1732–42.
Piccart MJ, Speyer JL, Wernz JC et al. Advanced ovarian
cancer: three-year results of a 6-8 month, 2-drug cisplatincontaining regimen. Eur J Cancer Clin Oncol 1987; 23:
631–41.
du Bois A, Lück HJ, Meier W et al. A randomized clinical
trial of cisplatin/paclitaxel versus carboplatin/paclitaxel as
first-line treatment of ovarian cancer. J Natl Cancer Inst
2003; 95: 1320–9.
Ozols RF, Bundy BN, Greer BE et al. Phase III trial of carboplatin and paclitaxel compared with cisplatin and paclitaxel in patients with optimally resected stage III ovarian
cancer: a Gynecologic Oncology Group study. J Clin Oncol
2003; 21: 3194–200.
Alberts DS, Liu PY, Hannigan EV et al. Intraperitoneal cisplatin plus intravenous cyclophosphamide versus intravenous cisplatin plus intravenous cyclophosphamide for stage
III ovarian cancer. N Engl J Med 1996; 335: 1950–5.
Markman M, Bundy BN, Alberts DS et al. Phase III trial of
standard-dose intravenous cisplatin plus paclitaxel versus
moderately high-dose carboplatin followed by intravenous
paclitaxel and intraperitoneal cisplatin in small-volume
stage III ovarian carcinoma: an intergroup study of the Gynecologic Oncology Group, Southwestern Oncology Group, and
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group. J Clin Oncol 2001; 19:
1001–7.
Armstrong DK, Bundy B, Wenzel L et al. Intraperitoneal
cisplatin and paclitaxel in ovarian cancer. N Engl J Med
2006; 354: 34–43.
Jacobs EM, Muggia FM. Testicular cancer: risk factors
and the role of adjuvant chemotherapy. Cancer 1980; 45:
1782–90.
Bosl GJ, Gluckman R, Geller NL et al. VAB-6: an effective
chemotherapy regimen for patients with germ-cell tumors.
J Clin Oncol 1986; 4: 1493–9.
Williams SD, Stablein DM, Einhorn LH et al. Immediate
adjuvant chemotherapy versus observation with treatment
at relapse in pathological stage II testicular cancer. N Engl
J Med 1987; 317: 1433–8.
Loehrer PJ Sr, Lauer R, Roth BJ et al. Salvage therapy in
recurrent germ cell cancer: ifosfamide and cisplatin plus
either vinblastine or etoposide. Ann Intern Med 1988;
109: 540–6.
Bokemeyer C, Oechsle K, Honecker F et al. Combination
chemotherapy with gemcitabine, oxaliplatin, and paclitaxel in
patients with cisplatin-refractory or multiply relapsed germcell tumors: a study of the German Testicular Cancer Study
Group. Ann Oncol 2008; 19: 448–53. Epub 2007 Nov 15.
Stoter G, Koopman A, Vendrik CP et al. Ten-year survival
and late sequelae in testicular cancer patients treated
with cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin. J Clin Oncol 1989;
7: 1099–104.
Chua DT, Veenema RJ, Muggia FM et al. Acid phosphatase
levels in bone marrow: Value in detecting early bone marrow metastasis from carcinoma of the prostate. J Urol 1970;
103: 462–6.
Crawford ED, Blumenstein BA, Goodman PJ et al. Leuprolide with and without flutamide in advanced prostate
cancer. Cancer 1990; 66(Suppl 5): 1039–44.

70.

71.

72.

73.

74.

75.
76.

77.

78.

79.

80.

81.
82.
83.

84.

85.

86.

87.

88.

89.

Eisenberger MA, Blumenstein BA, Crawford ED et al. Bilateral orchiectomy with or without flutamide for metastatic
prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 1998; 339: 1036–42.
Tannnock IF, Osoba D, Stockler MR et al. Chemotherapy
with mitoxantrone plus prednisone or prednisone alone for
symptomatic hormone-resistant prostate cancer: a Canadian
randomized trial with palliative endpoints. J Clin Oncol
1996; 14: 1756–64.
Pinsky PF, Andriole G, Crawford ED et al. Prostate-specific
antigen velocity and prostate cancer gleason grade and
stage. Cancer 2007; 109: 1689–95.
Soloway MS, Schellhammer PF, Smith JA et al. Bicalutamide
in the treatment of advanced prostatic carcinoma: a phase
II multicenter trial. Urology 1996; 47(Suppl 1A): 33–7; discussion 48–53.
Petrylak DP, Tangen CM, Hussain MH et al. Docetaxel and
estramustine compared with mitoxantrone and prednisone
for advanced refractory prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2004;
351: 1513–20.
Kinzler KW, Vogelstein B. Lessons from hereditary colorectal cancer. Cell 1996; 87: 159–70.
Jover R, Zapater P, Castells A et al. The efficacy of adjuvant
chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil in colorectal cancer
depends on the mismatch repair status. Eur J Cancer 2008;
Aug 21.
Vilar E, Scaltriti M, Balmaña J et al. Microsatellite instability
due to hMLH1 deficiency is associated with increased cytotoxicity to irinotecan in human colorectal cancer cell lines.
Br J Cancer 2008; Oct 21.
De Roock W, Piessevaux H, De Schutter J et al. KRAS wildtype state predicts survival and is associated to early radiological response in metastatic colorectal cancer treated with
cetuximab. Ann Oncol 2008; 19: 508–15. Epub 2007 Nov 12.
Rottenberg S, Nygren AO, Pajic M et al. Selective induction
of chemotherapy resistance of mammary tumors in a conditional mouse model for hereditary breast cancer. Proc Natl
Acad Sci USA 2007; 104: 12117–22.
Liu X, Rottenberg S, Pajic M et al. Somatic loss of BRCA1
and p53 in mice induces mammary tumors with features of
human BRCA1-mutated basal-like breast cancer. Proc Natl
Acad Sci USA 2007; 104: 12111–6.
Borst P, Rottenberg S, Jonkers J. How do real tumors become
resistant to cisplatin. Cell Cycle 2008; 7: 1353–9.
Boden GL, Gibb R. Radiotherapy and testicular neoplasms.
Lancet 1951; 2: 1195–7.
Powles T, Robinson D, Shamash J et al. The long-term risks
of adjuvant carboplatin treatment for stage I seminoma of
the testis. Ann Oncol 2008; 19: 443–7. Epub 2007 Nov 28.
Aparicio J, Germà JR, García del Muro X et al. Risk-adapted
management for patients with clinical stage I seminoma: the
Second Spanish Germ Cell Cancer Cooperative Group study.
J Clin Oncol 2005; 23(34): 8717–23.
Baer L, Muggia FM, Formenti SC. Platinum compounds and
radiation. In: Bonetti A, Howell SB, Leone R, Muggia FM,
eds. Platinum and Other Heavy Metal Compounds in Cancer
Chemotherapy. Humana Press, 2009: Chapter 25, 211–24.
Hong WK, Lippman SM, Wolf GT. Recent advances in head
and neck cancer—larynx preservation and cancer chemoprevention: the Seventeenth Annual Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Foundation Award Lecture. Cancer Res 1993; 53:
5113–20.
Formenti SC, Demaria S. Effects of chemoradiation on
tumor-host interactions: the immunologic side. J Clin Oncol
2008; 26: 1562–3.
Apetoh L, Ghiringhelli F, Zvitvogel L. Calreticulin dictates
the immunogenicity of anti-cancer chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Med Sci 2007; 23: 257–8.
Oh WK, Kantoff PW, Weinberg V et al. Prospective, multicenter, randomized phase II trial of the herbal supplement,

Chapter 2:

90.

91.

92.

93.

94.

95.
96.

97.

98.

99.

100.

101.

102.

103.

104.

105.

106.

107.

108.

PC-SPES, and diethylstilbestrol in patients with androgenindependent prostate cancer. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 3705–12.
Epub 2004 Aug.
Curt GA, Katterhagen G, Mahaney FX Jr. Immunoaugmentative therapy. A primer on the perils of unproved treatments. JAMA 1986; 255: 505–7.
Ravikumar TS, Kaleya R, Kishinevsky A. Surgical ablative
therapy of liver tumors. Cancer: Principles and Practice of
Oncology Updates 2000; 14: 1–12.
Muggia FM. Introduction. Platinum compounds: the culmination of the era of cancer chemotherapy. In: Bonetti A,
Howell SB, Leone R, Muggia FM, eds. Platinum and Other
Heavy Metal Compounds in Cancer Chemotherapy. Humana
Press, 2009: Chapter 1, 1–10.
Wampler GL, Carter WH Jr, Campbell ED et al. Relationships
between various uses of antineoplastic drug-interaction terms.
Cancer Chemotherapy & Pharmacology 1992; 31: 111–17.
Capizzi RL, Keiser LW, Sartorelli AC. Combination
chemotherapy—theory and practice. Semin Oncol 1977; 4:
227–53.
Hanahan D. Weinberg RA. The hallmarks of cancer. Cell
2000; 100: 57–70.
Azad NS, Posadas EM, Kwitkowski VE et al. Combination
targeted therapy with sorafenib and bevacizumab results in
enhanced toxicity and antitumor activity. J Clin Oncol 2008;
26: 3709–14.
Bergers G, Song S, Meyer-Morse N et al. Benefits of targeting
both pericytes and endothelial cells in the tumor vasculature
with kinase inhibitors. J Clin Invest 2003; 111: 1287–95.
Hamilton A, Eder JP Pavlick AC et al. Proteasome inhibition
with bortezomib (PSC341): a phase I study with pharmacodynamic end points using a day 1 and day 4 schedule in a
14-day cycle. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 6107–16.
Wong M, Balleine RL, Blair EY et al. Predictors of vinorelbine pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in patients
with cancer. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 2448–55.
Ratain MJ. Dear Doctor: We really are not sure what dose
of capecitabine you should prescribe for your patient (Editorial). J Clin Oncol 2002; 20: 1434–5.
Norton L, Simon R. Tumor size, sensitivity to therapy,
and design of treatment schedules. Cancer Treat Rep 1997;
61: 1307–17.
Citron ML, Berry DA, Cirrincione C et al. Randomized trial
of dose-dense versus conventionally scheduled and sequential versus concurrent combination chemotherapy as postoperative adjuvant treatment of node-positive primary breast
cancer: first report of Intergroup Trial C9741/Cancer and
Leukemia Group B Trial 9741. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 1431–9.
Green MD, Koelbl H, Baselga J et al. A randomized doubleblind multicenter phase III study of fixed-dose singleadministration pegfilgrastim versus daily filgrastim in
patients receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Ann
Oncol 2003; 14: 29–35.
Crawford J. Once-per-cycle pegfilgrastim (Neulasta) for the
management of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia. Semin
Oncol 2003; 30(4 Suppl 13): 24–30.
Bohlius J, Langensiepen S, Schwarzer G et al. Recombinant
human erythropoietin and overall survival in cancer patients:
results of a comprehensive meta-analysis. J Natl Cancer Inst
2005; 97: 489–98, 2005.
Gamelin L, Boisdron-Celle M, Morel A et al. Oxalipaltinrelated neuropathy: interest of calcium-magnesium infusion
and no impact on its efficacy. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 1188–9.
Muggia FM. Sequential single agents as first-line chemotherapy for ovarian cancer: a strategy derived from the results
of GOG-132. Int J Gynecol Cancer 2003; 13(Suppl 2): 156–62.
Yauger BJ, Gorden P, Park J et al. Effect of depot medroxyprogesterone acetate on glucose tolerance in generalized
lipodystrophy. Obstet Gynecol 2008; 112: 445–7.

109.

110.

111.
112.

113.

114.

115.

116.

117.

118.

119.

120.

121.

122.

123.

124.

Principles of Systemic Therapy

39

Windschitl HE, O’Connell MJ, Wieand HS et al. A clinical
trial of biochemical modulation of 5-fluorouracil with
N-phosphonoacetyl-L-aspartate and thymidine in advanced
gastric and anaplastic colorectal cancer. Cancer 1990; 66: 853–6.
Pegram MD, Konecny GE, O’Callaghan C et al. Rational
combinations of trastuzumab with chemotherapeutic drugs
used in the treatment of breast cancer. J Natl Cancer Inst
2004; 96: 739–49.
Haddad Ri, Shin DM. Recent advances in head and neck
cancer. N Engl J Med 2008; 359: 1143–54.
Sledge GW, Neuberg D, Bernardo P et al. Phase III trial of
doxorubicin, paclitaxel, and the combination of doxorubicin
and paclitaxel as front-line chemotherapy for metastatic
breast cancer: an intergroup trial (E1193). J Clin Oncol 2003;
21: 588–92.
Miles D, Vukelja S, Moiseyenko V et al. Survival benefit
with capecitabine/docetaxel versus docetaxel alone: analysis
of therapy in a randomized phase III trial. Clin Breast
Cancer 2004; 5: 273–8.
Albain KS, Nag SM, Calderillo-Ruiz G et al. Gemcitabine
plus paclitaxel versus paclitaxel monotherapy in patients
with metastatic breast cancer and prior anthracycline treatment. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 3950–7.
Muggia FM, Braly PS, Brady MF et al. Phase III randomized
study of cisplatin versus paclitaxel versus cisplatin and
paclitaxel in patients with suboptimal stage III or IV ovarian
cancer: a Gynecologic Oncology Group study. J Clin Oncol
2000; 18: 106–15.
The ICON Collaborators. Paclitaxel plus carboplatin versus
standard chemotherapy with either single-agent carboplatin
or cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and cisplatin in women
with ovaraian cancer: the ICON3 randomized trials. Lancet
2002; 360: 505–15.
McGuire WP, Hoskins WJ, Brady MF et al. Cyclophosphamide and cisplatin compared with palcitaxel and cisplatin
in patients with stage III and stage IV ovarian cancer.
N Eng J Med 1996; 334: 1–6.
Piccart MJ, Bertelsen K, James K et al. Randomized intergroup
trial of cisplatin-paclitaxel versus cisplatin-cyclophosphamide
in women with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer: threeyear results. J Natl Cancer Inst 2000; 92: 699–708.
Cantù MG, Buda A, Parma G et al. Randomized controlled
trial of single-agent paclitaxel versus cyclophosphamide,
doxorubicin, and cisplatin in patients with recurrent ovarian
cancer who responded to first-line platinum-based regimens.
J Clin Oncol 2002; 20: 1232–7.
Bolis G, Scarfone G, Giardina G et al. Carboplatin alone vs
carboplatin plus epidoxorubicin as second-line therapy for
cisplatin- or carboplatin-sensitive ovarian cancer. Gynecol
Oncol 2001; 81: 3–9.
Pfisterer J, Plante M, Vergote I et al. Gemcitabine plus
carboplatin compared with carboplatin in patients with
platinum-sensitive recurrent ovarian cancer: an intergroup
trial of the AGO-OVAR, the NCIC CTG, and the EORTC
GCG. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 4699–707.
Parmar MK, Ledermann JA, Colombo N et al. Paclitaxel
plus platinum-based chemotherapy versus conventional
platinum-based chemotherapy in women with relapsed
ovarian cancer: the ICON4/AGO-OVAR-2.2 trial. Lancet
2003; 361: 2099–106.
Ferrero JM, Weber B, Geay JF et al. Second-line chemotherapy with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin and carboplatin is highly effective in patients with advanced ovarian
cancer in late relapse: a GINECO phase II trial. Ann Oncol
2007; 18: 263–8.
Markman M, Liu PY, Wilczynski S et al. Phase III randomized trial of 12 versus 3 months of maintenance paclitaxel in
patients with advanced ovarian cancer after complete
response to platinum and paclitaxel-based chemotherapy: a

40

Section I: General Principles

Southwest Oncology Group and Gynecologic Oncology
Group trial. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 2460–5.
125. Carter SK. The strategy of cancer treatment. In: Muggia FM,
Rozencweig M, eds. Clinical Evaluation of Anticancer
Therapy. Boston: Martinus Nijhoff Publishers, 1987: 211–16.
126. O’Brien SG, Guilhot F, Larson RA et al. Imatinib compared
with interferon and low-dose cytarabine for newly diagnosed chronic-phase chronic myeloid leukemia. N Engl J
Med 2003; 348: 994–1004.
127. Desai J, Shankar S, Heinrich MC et al. Clonal evolution of
resistance to imatinib in patients with metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Clin Cancer Res 2007; 13: 5398–405.

128.

Hanahan D. Weinberg RA. Retrospective: Judah Folkman
(1933–2008). Science 2008; 319: 1055.
129. Grillo-Lopez AJ. Rituximab (Rituxan/MabThera): the first
decade (1993–2003). Expert Rev Anticancer Ther 2003; 3:
767–79.
130. Slamon DJ, Leyland-Jones B, Shak S et al. Use of chemotherapy plus a monoclonal antibody against HER2 for metastatic breast cancer that overexpresses HER2. N Engl J Med
2001; 344: 783–92.
131. Wu AH. A selected history and future of immunoassay
development and applications in clinical chemistry. Clin
Chim Acta 2006; 369: 119–24.

3
1
Principles and Examples of Cancer (Cell) Specific Therapies
Ferry A. L. M. Eskens and Jaap Verweij

BASIC PRINCIPLES
Cancer (Cell) Specific vs. Nontargeted Therapy

INTRODUCTION
Over the past decades, systemic cancer treatment has greatly
relied on the use of cytotoxic chemotherapy. For principles
of such treatment see chapter 2.
Cytotoxic chemotherapy exerts its activity by targeting
the various steps of the nuclear DNA replication process
and cancer cell proliferation, but because of a lack of cell
selectivity it not only kills cancer cells but also affects normal cells and tissues, resulting in a wide spectrum of sometimes life threatening side effects. In other words, although
cytotoxic chemotherapy can be considered as targeted therapy in a sense, a striking lack of selectivity for cancer cells
remains a major drawback.
In recent decades, biological and molecular research
has unraveled a large number of processes that play important and specific roles in carcinogenesis and cancer growth.
In contrast to the nuclear DNA replication processes inhibited by cytotoxic chemotherapy, the majority of these processes are located either in the cellular cytoplasm, at the cell
membrane, or even in the extracellular environment. It has
been shown that in normal cells and under physiological
conditions the relevance of these processes is less obvious
and sometimes even absent, and therefore these processes
are considered more cancer (cell) specific. If it were possible
to specifically target and inhibit any of these processes, this
would hopefully leave normal cells and tissues largely unaffected, thereby circumventing most of the cumbersome side
effects usually related to nonspecific cytotoxic chemotherapy. Therefore, designing such specific inhibitory agents
has been one of the challenges in the development of a new
generation of drug treatments that we, in view of the above,
prefer to refer to as cancer (cell) specific anticancer therapy,
rather than using the more misleading term “targeted
therapy” (Fig. 3.1).
Unfortunately, it is also a reality that the majority of
human epithelial cancers are not driven by a single aberrant
cancer (cell) specific process, and therefore cancer (cell) specific therapy that inhibits one specific process is still very
unlikely to become a curative treatment option for the
majority of cancer patients. Trying to target multiple different processes will also, to a small extent, affect normal
cells, but the total resultant of this will still be the occurrence of undesired side effects. Current knowledge and
clinical experience have indeed shown convincingly that the
very complex biology of human cancer poses a formidable
challenge for the design of cancer (cell) specific anticancer
agents (Fig. 3.2).

In contrast to cytotoxic chemotherapy, most cancer (cell)
specific anticancer agents have been rationally designed,
following the recognition and structural and functional characterization of a specific target. Irrespective of their exact
localization, these targets are usually proteins encoded by
mutated genes, or dysregulated receptors and signaling
proteins; their presence and usually uncontrolled activity
directly or indirectly leads to autonomous cell proliferation.
The molecular mechanism of action of most cancer
(cell) specific agents is based upon often reversible, functional inhibitory interaction between a target and the specific
agent, and as such is expected to selectively affect cancer
cells and leave normal cells largely unaffected. Based upon
their mechanism of action, the majority of these agents do
not induce acute cell death, and cancer cells are rather
inhibited in their autonomous growth or transformed into
a state of quiescence.

Dosing Aspects
As cancer (cell) specific therapy often relies on reversible
target inhibition, the optimal dosing strategy will likely have
to be different from that of cytotoxic therapy. Whereas the
latter exerts anticancer activity in a steep dose-dependent
manner and therefore is administered at the highest tolerable dose, in cancer (cell) specific therapy a “saturation”
of the target is pursued, and this can frequently be obtained
(at least in preclinical models) at doses that are far below
the highest tolerable dose. It has indeed been shown that
in many of these models, target inhibitory and anticancer
effects are not dose dependent (Fig. 3.3). To obtain optimal
target inhibition, however, a certain minimum concentration of the drug is required; if at such a “threshold” concentration complete receptor binding is obtained, further
escalation of the dose will not lead to additional target
inhibition, but most likely will only add unnecessary toxicity. The optimal biological effect dose (OBD) of molecular
targeted therapy therefore is the equivalent of the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of cytotoxic therapy and is the
dose that should be aimed at. To define the dose that exerts
optimal target inhibition, it is thus crucial to assess as reliably as possible this pharmacodynamic effect. A problem
that is discussed later in this chapter is that at present it
is often difficult to define optimal target inhibition and
thus the OBD.

41

42

Section I: General Principles

Immune system
activation (vaccines,
monoclonal antibodies)

Antireceptor
antibodies
± toxins

Metalloproteinase
inhibitors

Tumor cell

Tyrosine kinase
inhibitors

Farnesyltransferase
inhibitors

Growth
factor
receptors

Matrix degradation
(Collagenases,
gelatinases and
stromelysins)

Nucleus

Intracellular
signaling
molecules

Angiogenesis inhibitors
(Angiostatin,endostatin
and anti-VEGF)

Apoptosis
agonists
Hormone agonists/
antagonists

Antisense

Mechanism of Target Inhibition
Once a cancer (cell) specific target has been identified, in
theory various approaches can be explored to inhibit its
activity. There are in essence three approaches that have
received a lot of attention:
• Antisense oligonucleotides or ribozymes that can serve
to inhibit RNA transcription and receptor synthesis;
• Specific monoclonal antibodies targeting either the
receptor or the ligand;
• Competitive inhibition at the phosphorylation binding
domains of the intracellular site of the receptor once
ligand–receptor interaction has occurred.
The last two approaches have been explored most extensively and therefore will be discussed in more detail when
reviewing the various cancer (cell) specific agents.

Drug Scheduling
As mentioned, the goal of cancer (cell) specific therapy is
to induce optimal target inhibition with subsequent optimal
tumor growth inhibition. For reasons of clarity and presentation it is presumed here that tumor growth is dependent
on the activity of only one target, but as already mentioned
before, this probably is an oversimplification of the real-life
tumor biology. As target inhibition of a growth factor does
not likely induce cell-kill but rather leads to growth inhibition, clinically this activity is likely to induce tumor growth
delay or tumor stasis rather than regression of tumor size.
As the receptor–drug interaction is reversible, interruption
of drug exposure may lead to restored ligand–receptor interaction with subsequent reactivation of the target, enabling

Figure 3.1 Overview of different cancer cell
specific therapies that either target the cell membrane, the cytoplasm, or intranuclear processes.
Abbreviation: VEGF, vascular endothelial growth
factor.

cells to restore their normal function and proliferative
activity, and resulting in tumor regrowth. Cancer (cell) specific therapy therefore is often also referred to as cytostatic
therapy.
For many of the targets it is currently not convincingly
known if optimal inhibition truly has to be continuous or
whether similar activity can be achieved by intermittent
treatment. From current clinical experience with some of
the orally available cancer (cell) specific cytostatic agents
it remains unclear if intermittent treatment has a negative
impact on clinical activity. Whatever the outcome of these
discussions, an important element of the resulting treatment,
be it continuous or semi-continuous, is that optimal target
inhibition and thus optimal treatment compliance is of crucial importance. To achieve this, drugs that can be given
safely for prolonged periods of time without the onset of
major side effects interfering with chronic drug dosing must
be developed. This can be achieved by parenteral formulations with a long half-life, but for optimal patient convenience, oral formulations may be preferred.

Anticancer Activity
Preclinical studies have shown that cancer (cell) specific
agents induce tumor growth inhibition rather than tumor
regression. Importantly, optimal growth inhibition was often
obtained in case of minimal (residual) disease activity.
Even though clinical studies have shown that patients with
advanced metastatic disease may benefit from cancer (cell)
specific treatment, it is conceivable that an even greater
benefit can be achieved among those with minimal residual
disease after surgery, raditotherapy and/or, cytoreductive
chemotherapy. Another important consideration is to

MGDF

GM-CSFR

α

βc

α
IL-3R

βc

GRB2

JAK2

Epo

I
mp

SHC

SHC

STAT5

KAL2

STAT5

KAL2

ras

SHC

TNF

1

IL-8R

Gα

II
TNF

Gα

Gbg

STAT1

TGFβ

P

Y

P

CNTF
III

Y

P134

PLC
γ

Y P

OSM

gp130

Tyk2

JAK1

p

p

LIFR

48

113

p

STAT2

IL-6

IL-6R

JAK2

hck

IL-11

α

α

SIFB

IL-11R

Tyk2

STAT1 STAT3

STAT1

Tyk2

JAK1

α

d
SIFA

SIFC

SIFB

JAK

INF αP

IFNγ

JAK1

β α

JAK2

β

IL-9

AC

c

α

JA
K1

IL-2

β

fyn

T
STA

AT3
5

ST
AT
1

T5
ST

STA

1
TAT

sr

IL-2R

IL-9R

JAK1

hck

S

src
6- p0

cAMP

STAT1

PKA

C C

R R

JAK2

?+ 48

STAT1

48

STAT1 STAT1

STAT5

+ 48

STAT1

SHB

Inhibitor

?

Cytokines

LIF

hck

MAPK

LIF

MAPK

STAT3 STAT3 SIFC

STAT1β

84

STAT1

αα

p

GTP

Ras Ras NF1

Smg
GTP
RasGAP
GDS

Activator

CDC
25

GDP

SOS Ras

Stathmin

STAT1α

SHC

GRB2

PDGF

Cancer cell surface receptors; which one is crucial in cancer growth?

CNTFR

α

P

PI3K
P13

Y

EGF

SIFA STAT1 STAT1

(P91)

STAT1

JAK

Figure 3.2

PICβ2

p60

IRS1

neu

γ

I

IL-7

IL-4

IL-15

F1

CS

3

Lymphotoxins

IL-8

MAPK

Raf

Fps

Pl3K

HER4

HER3

TGFa AR, NDF, Cripto, HB-EGFbetacellulin

IRS1

Vav

SHC

STAT5

SOS

α
IL-5R GTP

Haemopoietins

GM-CSF

IL-3

IL-5

βc

IGF-ll/M6P R

IGF-II

Insulin

Insulin R
dimer

d

d

R

AT

o-

ST

Ep

IL-1α

II

IGF IR

P75

TRKC

TRKB

NGF

NGF

TRK

IGF-1

NT-4

NT-4

BDNF

BDNF

NT-3

NT-3

NGF

NGF

NT-3

NT-3

BDNF

BDNF

NT-4

NT-4

Low
affinity

High
affinity

Neurotrophins

Chapter 3:
Principles and Examples of Cancer (Cell) Specific Therapies

43

ST
AT
5

44

Section I: General Principles

Toxicity

Antitumour effect

Cytotoxic agents

Cancer cell specific
anticancer agents
(cytostatic)
OBD

Dose

MTD

Figure 3.3 Dose-response curves of cancer cell specific and cytotoxic
agents. Abbreviations: MTD, maximal tolerable dose; OBD, optimal
biological dose.

combine cancer (cell) specific treatment with conventional
cytoreductive treatment or radiotherapy. This conceptual
approach is supported by the notion that in many model
studies such combinations showed either additive or even
synergistic activity.

CLASSES OF CANCER (CELL) SPECIFIC THERAPIES
There are various cancer (cell) specific processes that could
be interesting targets for the development of specific inhibitory agents. Once again, and as mentioned before, these
targets belong to a variety of different locations, namely at
the cellular membrane, in the intracellular cytoplasm, in
the nucleus, or in the cancer cell environment.
• Targets at the membrane of the cancer cell involve
° transmembrane growth factor receptors
° stromal invasion factors
• Targets in the cellular cytoplasm involve
° intracellular signal transduction processes
• Targets in the cellular nucleus involve
° specific DNA and RNA transcriptional processes
° cell cycle-dependent kinases
° histone deacetylases
° spliceosome
• Targets outside the cancer cell involve
° tumor-related blood vessels
° cell-to-cell signaling
In the following chapter, we summarize the available information without the aim to be complete, as the field is
continuously evolving.

Transmembrane Targets on the Cell Surface
Signal Transduction Inhibitors
Protein tyrosine phosphorylation was discovered in the early
1980s, and subsequently, it was recognized to play a key role

in the regulation of essential processes such as cell cycle,
cell metabolism, cell growth, and cell proliferation.
Protein tyrosine phosphorylation is a process that is
located at the inner cell surface of various transmembrane
growth factor receptors of which the ErbB family of epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFRs) was the first to be
identified. The ErbB family consists of the four members
ErbB1/EGFR, ErbB2/HER-2, ErbB3, and ErbB4 (Fig. 3.4).
These receptors share a common structure that consists of
an extracellular ligand-binding domain, a single transmembrane helix, and a cytoplasmic domain. The last consists
of a protein kinase domain and a tightly attached regulatory
segment or domain that can be phosphorylated.
Following ligand–receptor interaction, the binding of
ATP to the cytoplasmic regulatory segment of the protein
kinase domain induces receptor homo- or heterodimerization. The subsequent tyrosine kinase activation will activate
multiple downstream effector pathways that ultimately lead
to various cellular responses.
A central role in the activation of some important
mitogenic downstream effector pathways is the phosphorylation of cellular Ras. In addition, and taken as an example to illustrate the enormous diversity of effects and
interactions, the activation of other, less-defined pathways
through increased EGFR tyrosine kinase activity is responsible for an increased production and secretion of factors
that can also induce tumor-related angiogenesis.
The regulation and inhibition of tyrosine kinase activity is exerted through different mechanisms. Inhibitory
protein tyrosine phosphatases can dephosphorylate the
regulatory segment related to the tyrosine kinase domain,
whereas ligand–receptor interaction as such induces a rapid
endocytosis and subsequent degradation of both the receptor and ligand.
In many human epithelial cancers increased expression
of EGFR has been found, correlated with tumor aggressiveness and poor clinical outcome. This relationship is
even stronger when constitutively activated EGFR due to
some typical mutations is present. The current prognostic
role of EGFR in various epithelial malignancies and the
prediction of efficacy of specific inhibitory agents is strongly
related to this mutational status (1,2). Whatever the exact
underlying pathophysiological mechanisms for the relation
between EGFR expression and clinical outcome, inhibiting
uncontrolled EGFR tyrosine kinase activity has been a target for the development of specific anticancer agents for a
relatively long period, using either monoclonal antibodies
or small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors (Table 3.1).
Meanwhile, as positive data have been obtained, these
results are described in slightly more detail.
Monoclonal antibodies specifically target the extracellular domain of EGFR and competitively inhibit normal
ligand–receptor interaction (Fig. 3.5).
Cetuximab is a human:murine chimeric antibody that
is in the most advanced stages of clinical development.
Randomized clinical studies with intravenous cetuximab
given in combination with chemotherapy or radiotherapy
have shown promising anticancer activity in colorectal and
squamous head and neck cancer (3–6). In addition, singleagent studies in colorectal cancer patients that had become
refractory to cytotoxic chemotherapy also showed positive
results (7). In this category of patients, Ras mutational status

45

BTC
NR
G
2

NRG1

HB-GF

Epi

Principles and Examples of Cancer (Cell) Specific Therapies

NRG1

2
NRG

GF

AR

HB-E

BTC

Ep i

EGF

ha
alp
F
TG

Chapter 3:

G3

NR
Ligand
Binding

G4

NR

Tyrosine
Kinase

EGFR
HER1
C-erbB

HER2
C-erbB2

HER3

Table 3.1 Signal Transduction Inhibitors Targeting EGFR
in Clinical Trials
Drug

Target

Clinical development

Monoclonal antibodies
Cetuximab
ErbB1/EGFR
Panitumumab
ErbB1/EGFR
Trastuzumab
ErbB2/HER-2
Nimotuzumab
ErbB1/EGFR
MDX-447
ErbB1/EGFR
Pertuzumab
ErbB2/HER-2
Matuzumab
ErbB1/EGFR

Approved
Approved
Approved
Phase II
Phase II
Phase II
Phase I

Tyrosine kinase inhibitors
Gefitinib
ErbB1/EGFR
Erlotinib
ErbB1/EGFR
Imatinib
KIT, PDGFR, BCR-ABL
Lapatinib
ErbB1/EGFR
Vandetanib
ErbB1/VEGFR
BIBW 2992
ErbB1/ErbB2
CP-724,714
ErbB2
CI-1033
ErbB1/ErbB2
PKI-166
ErbB1/EGFR
AV-412
ErbB1/ErbB2
EKB-569
ErbB1/ErbB2
HKI-272
ErbB1/ErbB2
GW2016
ErbB1/ErbB2
JNJ 26483327
ErbB1/VEGFR-3

Approved
Approved
Approved
Approved
Phase III
Phase II
Phase II
Phase II
Phase I
Phase I
Phase II
Phase II
Phase I
Phase I

predicted clinical benefit, again underscoring the complex
interactions between transmembrane receptor activation and
downstream signaling pathway activation. Diarrhea and
skin rash have been described as the most prominent side
effects, of which skin rash is considered to be predictive

HER4

Figure 3.4 ErbB family of transmembrane
receptors and their natural ligands.
Abbrevations: TFG, transforming growth
factor; EGF, epidermal growth factor; Epi,
epiregulin; NRG, Neuregulin; HB-EGF, heparin
binding-EGF; AR, Amphiregulin; BTC, beta
cellulin.

for an increased response rate in patients with colorectal
cancer (8).
Panitumumab is a fully human antibody that has also
demonstrated favorable outcomes in refractory colorectal
cancer, and more monoclonal antibodies are currently
being evaluated in clinical trials. The pattern of side effects
of these antibodies is showing large overlap, though skin
rash in particular is considered to be a strong signal of
biological activity. Topical treatment as well as the use of
corticosteroids and antibiotics have been successful in the
management of drug-induced skin rash.
The monoclonal antibody trastuzumab that specifically targets ErbB-2 or Her-2 is discussed in detail in
chapter 5.
Small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors of EGFR
and other members of the ErbB family are also in advanced
stages of clinical testing (Fig. 3.6). Gefitinib and erlotinib
were the first compounds to be developed and demonstrated clinical activity in phase I and II trials in patients
with NSCLC. Therefore, large randomized Phase III trials
with gefitinib and erlotinib in combination with two different regimens of cytotoxic chemotherapy in patients with
advanced NSCLC were performed. Unfortunately, all these
studies failed to show any clinical benefit (9–12). As
patients in these studies were not selected for EGFR expression or more specifically, mutational status of EGFR, and
drug–drug interactions were not adequately assessed prior
to exploring these combinations in large clinical trials, the
results of the trials were disappointing. In chemotherapy
refractory patients with EGFR expressing NSCLC, singleagent therapy with erlotinib, however, was able to significantly improve survival and quality of life (13). In addition
to gefitinib and erlotinib, a large number of new EGFR
tyrosine kinase inhibitors are currently undergoing clinical
testing.
In contrast to monoclonal antibodies that specifically
target either EGFR or Her-2, many of the more recently

46

Section I: General Principles

Anti-EGFR MAb
Ligand

Ligand

Ligand binding blocked

Ligand
Extracellular
domain

Receptor-MAb
internalization

EGFR

Cell membrane
Tyrosine
kinase

Intracellular
domain

P

P
P

P

Other enzyme
or adaptor

Signal transduction
cascade blocked

Gene activation,
cell cycle progression

Figure 3.5 EGFR inhibition via monoclonal
antibodies blocking ligand binding. Abbreviations: EGFR, epidermal growth factor
receptor; MAb, monoclonal antibody.

Ligand (EGF,TGF-α)
Extracellular
domain

EGFR

Cell membrane
Tyrosine
kinase

Intracellular
domain

P

Tyrosine kinase
inhibitor

P
P

P

Other enzyme
or adaptor

Signal transduction
cascade blocked

Gene activation,
cell cycle progression

Figure 3.6 EGFR inhibition via tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Abbreviations:
EGFR, epidermal growth factor receptor; TGF-α, transforming growth
factor α.

developed tyrosine kinase inhibitors block activity of both
receptors (as well as that of other tyrosine kinases), thereby
possibly increasing clinical relevance. In almost all studies
with EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors diarrhea and skin rash

Figure 3.7 Typical example of EGFR inhibitor induced skin rash.
See Color Plate on Page xi.

have been reported as the most prominent side effects and
have been dose limiting in early clinical studies (Fig. 3.7).
Whether this skin rash correlates with EGFR inhibition
and/or might predict antitumor activity is much less clear
than for the monoclonal antibodies and currently remains
a matter of debate.
The small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors that are
mainly directed at inhibiting activity of ErbB2/HER-2 will
also be discussed in more detail in chapter 5.

Chapter 3:

Apart from the ErbB family of receptors, many other
transmembrane receptors depend on tyrosine kinase activity and are considered to be of interest for the development
of specific inhibiting agents.
The insulin-like growth factor receptor (IGFR) plays
an important role in cell proliferation and inhibition of apoptosis, and an increased expression of this receptor as well
of its natural ligand, insulin-like growth factor (IGF), has
been found to be correlated with worse outcome in some
epithelial cancers. Insulin is another ligand of IGFR, and
the cross talk that exists between the insulin receptor and
IGFR induces the activation of a complex pathway of intracellular signal transductions where the phosphatidylinositol3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) pathway and the mitogen-activated
protein (MAP) kinase pathway play central roles in a way
comparable to their role following the activation of EGFR.
Activation of these pathways is a crucial phenomenon in cell
proliferation and tumor growth. Inhibiting the IGFR therefore is considered to be another rational and cancer (cell)
specific approach that merits attention, and specific inhibitory monoclonal antibodies such as IMC-A12, AMG479,
R1507, and CP 751,871 have been developed. Early clinical
studies with these antibodies, either as single agent or in
combination with cytotoxic chemotherapy are currently
ongoing (14).
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are two unique disease entities,
as their tumor growth is driven by only a single genetic
defect. This hallmark distinguishes them from almost all
other human epithelial cancers that, as mentioned before,
depend on a complex of genetic abnormalities. In CML the
Philadelphia chromosome resulting from a t(9,22) reciprocal
translocation and in GIST the KIT proto-oncogene, respectively, are the unique driving forces for tumor growth.
These genetic defects encode for the BCR-ABL fusion
protein and KIT transmembrane receptor, respectively,
that both harbor a constitutively activated tyrosine kinase.
Imatinib mesylate (Gleevec, Glivec) is a specific inhibitor
of the tyrosine kinase activity of ABL kinase, the BCR-ABL
fusion protein, KIT, and the PDGF receptor (PDGFR) and
therefore has been considered a rational treatment option
for CML and GIST. In a Phase I study in GIST, imatinib
yielded surprisingly high response rates that were subsequently confirmed in large randomized Phase III studies,
showing an impressive positive impact on overall survival
(15). Imatinib therefore is now considered standard of care
for first-line treatment of unresectable GIST. In CML imatinib was superior to the combination of interferon-α and
low-dose cytarabine with regard to several cytogenetic and
clinical end points, and therefore is also considered now
to be the standard of care (16,17).

Downstream Signaling
In mammalian cells, three ras genes coexist, namely H-ras,
K-ras, and N-ras, encoding for H-Ras, K-Ras, and N-Ras
protein, respectively. Ras proteins localize to the inner surface of the cellular membrane and once converted from an
inactive Ras.guanosine 5′-diphospate (Ras.GDP) into the
active Ras.guanosine 5′-triphosphate (Ras.GTP) conformation plays a crucial role in the intracellular transduction of
various growth-promoting signals that originate from activated cell surface receptors. Signals transduced by Ras are

Principles and Examples of Cancer (Cell) Specific Therapies

47

those coming from the EGFR and the PDGFR, from cytokines
such as interleukin-2 and -3, from granulocyte-macrophage
colony stimulating factor and from hormones such as insulin
and IGF. Through various downstream effector pathways,
most signals transduced by Ras lead to cellular proliferative responses through increased nuclear gene transcription
activity. In addition to this, the activation of the RhoB
effector pathway is thought to play an important role in
actin cytoskeleton organization whereas the activation of
the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathway regulates cell
survival through inhibition of apoptosis (Fig. 3.8).
Cellular activity of Ras is balanced by intracellular
activation and inactivation through the activity of GTPase
activating protein (GAP), which degrades activated Ras.
GTP back into the inactive Ras.GDP conformation. In the
absence of continuous growth factor stimulation Ras.GTP
is rapidly reverted into Ras.GDP. Ras proteins are synthesized as soluble inactive proteins on free ribosomes. Prior
to being localized to the inner surface of the cellular membrane, Ras has to undergo a series of posttranslational
modifications of which farnesylation is the first and ratelimiting step. This addition of a farnesyl moiety from farnesyl diphosphate to the sulfur atom of the cysteine locus of
the carboxy-terminal tetrapeptide CaaX of Ras is exerted
through the enzyme farnesyl transferase (FT).
Although FT has a high specificity for farnesylation
of Ras, other mammalian proteins also depend on farnesylation through FT for their cellular functions. Although
this principle has been used to demonstrate target inhibition of specific farnesyl transferase inhibitors (FTIs), its
diversity could also be part of the explanation for the difficulties encountered in the development of FTI (18,19).
Among the various and mutually interactive intracellular signaling pathways downstream from Ras, the Raf
kinase pathway plays a pivotal role in tumorigenesis
through subsequent activation of a series of downstream
pathways, of which the PI 3-kinase pathway and the MAP
kinase pathway are most important. The PI 3-kinase pathway is another pathway that is directly activated following
the activation of various transmembrane receptors and/or
Ras, and subsequently activates a number of distinct pathways, such as the mammalian polypeptide kinase target of
rapamycin (mTOR) that is important for cell proliferation
and survival. All these separate pathways have been recognized as specific targets for inhibition (Fig. 3.9). Specific
PI 3-kinase inhibitors such as BGT 226 and BEZ235 have
been developed and are undergoing early clinical trials,
whereas specific mTOR inhibitors such as temsirolimus,
everolimus, sirolimus, rapamycin, and derivatives such as
RAD 001 are in a more advanced stage of clinical testing.
Temsirolimus is the lead compound of this class and has
gained regulatory approval for the treatment of some types
of renal-cell cancer (20). As activated expression of mitogenactivated protein kinase/EAK-kinase (MEK) has been found
in various human tumor types, inhibition of the MAPK/
MEKK pathway by specific protein kinase inhibitors has been
the target for the development of a new class of antitumor
agents that are now being tested in clinical studies.
Cyclin-dependent kinases play important roles in the
subsequent steps of a normal cell cycle. The overexpression
of some of these serine/threonine kinases or cyclin-dependent
kinases leads to aberrations in cell cycle regulation that
result in uncontrolled cell proliferation. The development

48

Section I: General Principles

Motility,
invasiveness
suppression of
apoptosis

GF
P-Y
P-Y
Ras-GDP
GTP

Y-P
Y-P Grb -2 GEF
SOS
Ras-GTP

PI-3K

Production of
phosphoinositides

Raf-1

GDP

Rac
MEK

GAP

Rho

Cytoskeletal
organization,
focaladhesions

MAPK

Gene expression

EGF
RTK

Proliferation

Figure
pathways.

3.8

Intracellular

signaling

UV

EGFR

PI(4,5)P2

P38

PIJK

PTEN

p
PDK 1/2

Akt/PKB p
p

PI(3,4,5

)P3

3

SK

G

Glycolysis
Cell survival
p
9 BAD
e
s
p
PFK 1
IKBs
pa
mTOR
as
PFK2
p
degradation
C
p
IKKs
Glucose
p
IKBs
BAD
GLUTs
uptake
14-3-3
B
p
Nitric oxide
-N
eN
p NF
O
synthesis
S
p
p7056K
Fork
Apoptosis
Cyclin-D1
head
NF-KB
TERT
14-3-3
Cell
p
p
p
Fork
survival
Telomer
head
Tau
extension p Creb
Glucose
synthase
Gene
expression

of pharmacologic inhibitors or modulators of deregulated
cyclin-dependent kinases therefore could be a promising
new treatment strategy. At least three specific cyclindependent kinase inhibitors (seliciclib, RGB 286638, and
AZD 5438) have entered clinical trials.

Inhibitors of Stromal Invasion
In addition to newly formed bloodvessels sprouting toward
the growing tumor, the tumor itself secretes various factors
that increase the invasive phenotype. Tumor hypoxia is
essential for these processes, and hypoxia-induced factor 1

Figure 3.9 The complex pathways and potential interactions of
downstream signaling pathways.

(HIF-1) plays a pivotal role in increased tumoral expression
of Met, which is another tyrosine kinase dependent transmembrane receptor. When Met is activated through binding of its natural ligand hepatocyte growth factor (HGF),
and even more so when mutations in this receptor induce
increased or autonomous signaling activity, the stromal
invasiveness of the tumor increases dramatically and favors
metastases development. Many details of this phenomenon
still need to be elucidated (21). Currently, two approaches
are being explored in early clinical studies with compounds
that inhibit this signaling pathway; small-molecule tyrosine
kinase inhibitors of Met such as XL880, Xl-184, Pf 2341066,

Chapter 3:

JNJ 38877605, SU11274, and monoclonal antibodies targeting the Met ligand HGF such as AMG 102. To date, only
early clinical studies have been performed, and apart from
toxicity data no results are available yet.

Targets in the Cellular Nucleus
Although the cellular nucleus and the processes involved
in DNA replication have always been considered to be the
target of nonspecific cytotoxic chemotherapy, it is increasingly recognized that these processes can be a target for
(cancer cell) specific targeting agents. Examples of these
intranuclear targets are transcriptional processes of oncogenes, the nuclear spliceosome that plays a role in the transition from pre-messenger RNA (pre- mRNA) to messenger
RNA, and the process of histone deacetylation; specific
inhibitors of this latter process (HDACi) induce hyperacetylation of histones that modulate chromatin structure and
gene expression resulting in growth arrest, cell differentiation, and apoptosis of tumor cells. Whereas CI-994, LBH 589,
Depsipeptide or FK228, CHR 3996, belinostat, and MS-275
are HDACi currently undergoing early clinical studies, the
HDACi vorinostat is approved for the treatment of cutaneous
T-cell lymphoma.

Targets Outside the Cancer Cell
Angiogenesis Inhibitors
Under physiological circumstances angiogenesis is a strictly
regulated process with only temporary and localized bursts
of activity in situations such as embryogenesis, hair growth,
wound healing, and in the female reproductive cycle. The
phenotypical antiangiogenic status is the result of suppressed vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression and a functional predominance of a number of naturally
occurring antiangiogenic factors such as trombospondin-1,
endostatin, angiostatin, and interferon-α and -β.
In cancer however, a proangiogenic phenotype exists.
As a result of a growing imbalance between antiangiogenic
and proangiogenic factors, an increased and uncontrolled
proliferation of endothelial cells occurs with the subsequent
formation of new blood vessels. In cancer, these new blood
vessels often have an inferior quality and are more leaky
than normal blood vessels. Newly formed vessels sprout
into the extracellular matrix (ECM) following the degradation of the basement membrane surrounding the endothelial cells. Various vascular cell adhesion molecules such
as the integrins αvβ3 play a role in this process by directing
the endothelial cells of newly formed vessels in the direction
of the tumor. Growing blood vessels can supply the tumor
with oxygen and essential nutrients and are a port of entry
for tumor cells to spread throughout the body and form
metastases. In tumors reaching the size of approximately
1 mm3 local hypoxia induces the expression of HIF-1 and
HGF that induce a so-called angiogenic switch resulting in
increased angiogenesis and tumor invasiveness.
Tumor-related angiogenesis is a multistep process that
is stimulated through various proangiogenic factors that
can be detected in the direct vicinity of tumor cells.
Being the predominant proangiogenic factor, VEGF
has the most specific endothelial proliferative effects (22).
The VEGF family consists of various isoforms and is secreted
by tumor cells and stromal factors such as endothelial cells,

Principles and Examples of Cancer (Cell) Specific Therapies

49

epithelial cells, mesothelial cells, and leukocytes. VEGF
binds with high affinity to the extracellular domain of two
homologous endothelial cell receptors, VEGFR-1 or flt-1
and VEGFR-2 or FLK-1/KDR. In addition to this, the binding of VEGF to VEGFR-3, which is primarily located on
lymph vessels, induces lymphangiogenesis, another important process in metastasis development (Fig. 3.10).
VEGFR-2 plays a dominant role in tumor-related
angiogenesis. Following ligand–receptor interaction, VEGF
receptor tyrosine kinase activity is stimulated, inducing a
cascade of downstream intracellular signals that induce
endothelial cell proliferation and the formation of new blood
vessels. VEGF has little or no effect on quiescent endothelial cells of mature blood vessels. Other proangiogenic factors that have been identified are among others basic
fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), platelet-derived growth
factor (PDGF), and IGF, each with their own endothelial
receptor.
As the correlation between VEGF expression and
increased angiogenic activity, tumor aggressiveness, metastatic potential, and poor clinical outcome has been recognized in many human tumors, inhibiting angiogenesis has
been an important focus of drug development over many
years. Inhibiting endothelial cell proliferation is likely to
be restricted to tumor areas, and thus it is conceivable to
develop agents that will cause less systemic side effects.
Besides, endothelial cells are genetically stable and not
likely to develop resistance.
As angiogenesis is a multistep process, involving
secretion and activity of growth factors or ligands, ligand–
receptor interactions, receptor tyrosine kinase activity,
endothelial cell proliferation, and endothelial cell–ECM
interaction, each of these steps can be considered as a
target for agents with specific inhibiting effects. In addition,
so-called vascular disrupting agents (VDA) have been
developed and are able to damage the endothelium of
established tumor-related vasculature, thereby selectively
destroying the existing blood vessels of solid tumor.
Anti-VEGF(R) Antibodies. Bevacizumab is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody that targets VEGF
with high affinity. By binding VEGF prior to its attachment
to any of the natural receptors, ligand–receptor interaction
and subsequent angiogenic activity are inhibited. Based
upon the experience of a vast number of clinical studies,
detailed information on both side efffects and efficacy has
been obtained, although many questions remain unanswered. The spectrum of drug related side effects has been
found to be completely different from that seen with cytotoxic anticancer therapy and includes hypertension, proteinuria, thromboembolic complications, bleeding, and, to a
lesser extent, gastrointestinal perforations. Hypertension is
the most frequent side effect, but this phenomenon can
be managed in the majority of cases by using conventional antihypertensive medication. Proteinuria, although
frequently observed, has almost never been dose limiting
and has always been found to be completely reversible
after dose reduction or drug discontinuation. When bevacizumab is not given in a period of about six weeks preceding or following surgery, the risk of bleeding complications
or wound repair problems appears to be negligible.
Although bevacizumab use has induced a number of bowel
perforations, the number of fatalities has been very small.

50

Section I: General Principles

VEGF-A

VEGF-E
VEGF-C
VEGF-D

TfsvVEGF
VEGF-B

PLGF-1,2
PIGF-2
PIGF-2

sVEGFR-1 VEGFR-1

VEGF-C

NRP-1

VEGFR-2

Y1214 p

VEGFR-3

Y1175

p

Cdc42
FAK

p

NRP-2

PLC-y
PKC

P13K

Ral

Src

Paxillin

p38 MAPK

Focal adhesion
Actin
assembly reorganisation

Ras

Akt

Rac

S6K

MEK

eNOS
ERK
NO production

Migration

Vascular permeability

Survival

Risk factors for this side effect are recent abdominal operations, radiotherapy, or underlying bowel disease. With
regard to clinical activity, large randomized Phase III studies have clearly shown benefit in first and second line
treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer and first-line treatment of metastatic breast cancer, nonsmall cell lung cancer
(NSCLC), and renal cell cancer (23–29). In all situations
except for renal cell cancer, bevacizumab was combined
with cytotoxic chemotherapy. Apart from smaller studies
in metastatic renal-cell carcinoma, bevacizumab given as
single-agent therapy has never resulted in relevant clinical
benefit in solid tumors. In renal cell cancer, combining
interferon with bevacizumab seems to have clinical activity
exceeding that of single-agent interferon (30). Because bevacizumab has to administered frequently and intravenously, the subsequent development step may be the
development of a VEGF targeting antibody that can be
administered subcutaneously (Aflibercept that is currently
being explored) or maybe even orally (Table 3.2).
Apart from antibodies that block VEGF, antibodies
that specifically block VEGFR-2 can also proof useful. These
antibodies are currently undergoing clinical trials (31).
VEGF Receptor Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors. Another way
to inhibit VEGF induced angiogenesis is by blocking receptor
tyrosine kinase activity of the activated endothelial VEGF
receptor. This activity initiates the intracellular downstream
signal cascade that leads to endothelial cell proliferation.
A large number of orally available small-molecule
inhibitors of VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase activity (some
also inhibiting other receptor tyrosine kinases) have been
developed, all of which could be safely administered to
patients, even for prolonged periods of time (Table 3.3).

Figure 3.10 VEGF and VEGFR induced intracellular signaling pathways and their crosstalk.

Proliferation

Table 3.2

VEGF(R) Targeting Antibodies in Clinical Trials

Drug

Target

Clinical
development

Side effects

Bevacizumab

VEGF

Approved

VEGF-Trap (Aflibercept)

VEGF

Phase III

IMC-1121B
CDP 791

VEGFR
VEGFR

Phase I
Phase I

Hypertension
Proteinuria
Thromboembolism
Bleeding
Fatigue
GI perforation
Hypertension
Proteinuria
Chest pain fatigue
Ongoing study
Ongoing study

Although the antibody bevacizumab has a very specific
target, some VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase have a more
broad spectrum inhibitory activity and downregulate the
tyrosine kinase activities of PDGF, c-Kit, RET, and the
intracellular Raf/Ras signal transduction pathway. Apart
from this, VEGF tyrosine kinase inhibitors that simultaneously inhibit EGFR have been developed, and these agents
are increasingly being referred to as broad spectrum tyrosine
kinase inhibitors. Based on the positive results of large
randomized clinical studies, the broad spectrum tyrosine
kinase inhibitors sunitinib and sorafenib have now been
registered for routine use, sunitinib in first-line metastasic
renal cell cancer and second line gastrointestinal stroma
tumors treatment, and sorafinib in first-line metastatic hepatocellular and second line metastatic renal-cell cancer treatment, respectively (32–35). In contrast to the bevacizumab

Chapter 3:

Table 3.3

VEGFR Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors in Clinical Trials

Drug

Target kinase

Clinical
development

SU11248 (Sunitinib)

VEGFR-2, VEGFR-3,
PDGFR, c-Kit
VEGFR-2, VEGFR-3,
PDGFR, c-Kit,
RAF/RAS
VEGFR-1, VEGFR-2, c-Kit,
PDGFR
VEGFR-2, EGFR
VEGFR-1, VEGFR-2,
VEGFR-3, c-Kit,
PDGFR
VEGFR-1, VEGFR-2,
VEGFR-3, c-Kit, PDGFR
VEGFR-1, VEGFR-2, c-Kit,
PDGFR
VEGFR-2, VEGFR-3,
PDGFR, c-Kit, RET
VEGFR-2, FGF
VEGFR-1, VEGFR-2,
VEGFR-3, c-Kit,
PDGFR
VEGFR-2, MET, RET
VEGFR-2, VEGFR-3,
PDGFR, c-Kit
VEGFR-2, VEGFR-3,
PDGFR, c-Kit
VEGFR-2, VEGFR-3,
FGFR
VEGFR-2,VEGFR-3,
PDGFR, c-Kit
VEGFR-2, EGFR

Approved

Bay 43-9006 (Sorafenib)

PTK787/ZK22854
(Vatalanib)
ZD6474 (Vandetanib)
AG-013736 (Axitinib)

AZD2171 (Cediranib)
GW 786034 (Pazopanib)
AMG-706 (Motesanib)
CP-547, 632
AV-951

XL-184
ABT-869
SU14813
BMS-582664 (Brivanib)
Bay 57-9352 (Telatinib)
AEE788

Approved

Phase III
Phase III
Phase III

Phase III
Phase III
Phase III
Phase II
Phase II

Phase II
Phase II
Phase II
Phase I
Phase I
Phase I

trials, all these studies explored single-agent treatment
with tyrosine kinase inhibitors. To date, combinations with
cytotoxic agents have yielded toxicity problems and randomized Phase III trials have been scarce (36). This is
strikingly different from the data available on bevacizumab,
and yet poorly understood. With regard to side effects, the
patterns observed with bevacizumab and most of the
small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors seem to be largely
overlapping, with hypertension and proteinuria being predominant. However, the spectrum of side effects of the
broad spectrum tyrosine kinase inhibitors seems to be more
diverse, with gastrointestinal toxicity, skin toxicity, thyroid
dysfuntion, and cardiac functional impairment as emerging
entities (37,38). Currently, a large number of both broad
spectrum as well as more selective VEGF tyrosine kinase
inhibitors such as Vandetanib (ZD6474), Vatalanib (PTK787),
Axitinib (AG-013736), Cediranib (AZD2171), Motesanib
(AMG-706), Telatinib (Bay 57-9352), AV-951, Pazopanib
(GW786034), SU14813, CP-547,632, and others are in different stages of clinical development. Interesting biological
activity and hints of clinical activity have been observed.
Inhibitors of Endothelial Cell Proliferation. Endostatin,
angiostatin, and thrombospondin-1 are naturally occurring
inhibitors of endothelial cell proliferation and migration
(Table 3.4).

Principles and Examples of Cancer (Cell) Specific Therapies

51

Though endostatin is a structural homologue of a
fragment from collagen XVIII, angiostatin is a fragment
of plasminogen. The gene for both compounds has been
cloned, and recombinant humanized derivatives have undergone extensive clinical testing. Unfortunately, the promising results that were observed in preclinical studies have
not been substantiated in clinical trials, and the development of these compounds has at best been sustained.
Thrombospondin-1 is a large glycoprotein with proangiogenic and antiangiogenic properties, the latter being
exerted when thrombospondin is bound to the endothelial
CD-36 receptor, inducing apoptosis of actively proliferating
endothelial cells. Naturally occurring thrombospondin is a
very large molecule that is not suitable for pharmaceutical development, but as its antiangiogenic properties are
restricted to the N-terminal region, various structural
modifications have been made, leading to compounds with
highly conserved antiangiogenic properties that can be
administered subcutaneously. Some of these compounds
are currently in Phase I and II studies.
Thalidomide and its derivative lenalidomide are
inhibitors of endothelial cell proliferation through largely
unknown mechanisms of action, although the reduction of
tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) has been proposed as
mechanism. Promising anticancer activity has been seen in
multiple myeloma, myelodysplastic syndrome, AIDS related
Kaposi sarcoma, and, to a lesser degree, renal cell carcinoma,
but the role in many other more frequently occurring tumor
types thus far has not been established (39,40).
Agents Inhibiting the Formation of New Blood Vessels.
Actively proliferating endothelial cells that are about to
form new blood vessels express the integrin αvβ3 that interacts with various glycoproteins of the ECM surrounding
tumor cells. The endothelial cell–matrix interaction plays a
role in directing the endothelial cells through the ECM. As
actively proliferating endothelial cells express integrins,
whereas quiescent cells do not, inhibiting these integrins by
means of antibodies or small-molecule antagonists could
inhibit the formation of new blood vessels without affecting
established blood vessels (Table 3.5).
Vitaxin or Medi-522, a monoclonal antibody, and cilengitide, a small-molecule inhibitor of αvβ3 are in clinical
development and have shown excellent clinical tolerability
and interesting antitumor results in gliomas (41).
Vascular Disrupting Agents. Vascular disrupting agents
(VDA) are able to occlude or destroy the established vasculature of tumors (42). Most VDA do so by disrupting
the microtubule structure of the endothelial cells. As the
endothelium from tumor vasculature differs from that of

Table 3.4 Direct Inhibitors of Endothelial Cell Proliferation in
Clinical Trials
Drug

Target

Clinical
development

ABT-510
Angiostatin
Endostatin
Thalidomide/lenolidamide

Endothelial CD-36
Various
Various
Reduction of TNF-α
production

Phase II
Phase II
Phase III
Approved

52

Section I: General Principles

Table 3.5 Agents Targeting the Formation of New Blood Vessels
in Clinical Trials
Drug

Target

Clinical development

Medi-522
Cilengitide

Integrin αVβ3
Integrin αVβ3

Phase II
Phase II

Table 3.6

Table 3.7 Proposed End Points of Early Clinical Studies with
Systemic Anticancer Agents

Phase I studies

Target

Clinical development

Combretastatin A4
ASA404
ZD6126
DMXAA
AVE8062A
NPI-2358
EPC2407

Endothelial tubulin
Endothelial tubulin
Endothelial tubulin
Induction of TNF-α
Endothelial tubulin
Endothelial tubulin
Endothelial tubulin

Phase III
Phase III
Phase II
Phase II
Phase I
Phase I
Phase I

normal blood vessels, small-molecule VDAs that specifically recognize tumor vasculature can have tumor-specific
antivascular effects (Table 3.6). PET scan analysis in studies with some of these small-molecule VDAs have shown
reversible changes in tumor perfusion, changes in the perfusion of the spleen and kidney, though specific DEMRI
kinetic parameters (Ktrans) varied significantly in the tumor
but not in the normal tissues (43,44).
Most of the small-molecule VDAs are tubulin inhibitors, including CA4P, ZD6126, AVE8062, OXi-4503, NPI2358, MN-029, and EPC2407, and clinical studies with these
compounds are currently ongoing.
Within the complex process of angiogenesis, several
sequential steps can be determined that all play a welldetermined role in this process. Although specific inhibition
of each of these isolated steps has shown to be feasible,
some doubt remains as to whether full inhibition of angiogenesis can be reached with the inhibition of one single
step. To optimally inhibit angiogenesis, it is probably necessary to inhibit two or more (sequential?) steps of the
process, and therefore combining two or more antiangiogenic agents, combining antiangiogenic agents with stromal
invasion inhibitors, or combining antiangiogenic agents with
VDAs may be required.

PRACTICAL IMPLICATIONS ON STUDY DESIGN
Study Methodology: Phase I Studies
The design of Phase I studies in the clinical development
of cytotoxic anticancer agents is aimed at safety, defined
in terms of acute dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and the MTD,
which usually is the highest but one dose level. As most
cytotoxic agents show a steep dose-response relation, the
MTD is the highest safe dose that is recommended for further
activity testing in single-agent Phase II studies (Fig. 3.3).
For cytostatic agents such end points may only be
applicable if preclinical studies have shown a recognizable
pattern of acute side effects, which is not always the case.
In contrast, as prolonged or even continuous treatment is

Cancer cell specific
therapy

1. Acute toxicity

1. Acute toxicity
2. Delayed toxicity
3. Optimal biologic
effect dose
Defined by:
Target AUC
Inhibition of cellular
target
Inhibition of surrogate
marker
1. Antitumor activity
Defined by:
Time to progression
Surrogate marker
inhibition
2. Delayed toxicity

2. Maximum Tolerated
Dose
Defined by:
Toxicity

Vascular Disrupting Agents in Clinical Trials

Drug

Cytotoxic chemotherapy

Phase II studies

1. Antitumor activity
Defined by:
Tumor regression rate

2. Delayed toxicity

often necessary to obtain optimal target inhibition, describing long-term or late-onset toxicity is important. To enable
this, patients should ideally be treated for prolonged periods of time, which is often difficult to achieve in the typical end-stage of disease Phase I population. Therefore,
performing Phase I trials with these agents in patients with
relatively indolent diseases will imply a change in the
selection of patients for clinical studies.
As indicated, defining the optimal biological effect
dose (OBD) rather than the MTD may be the primary end
point for Phase I studies with cytostatic agents (Table 3.7).
Assessing this biologic effect requires information on the
level of target inhibition by the drug dose administered.
Optimally, this would be done in repeated tumor biopsy
specimens, but as these are cumbersome procedures for
patients, this is often difficult to perform. Alternatively,
one tries to determine these biological effects in more easily accessible tissues such as leukocytes, skin biopsies, scalp
or eyebrow hairs, or oral mucosa scrapings, assuming that
the effects in these tissues could serve as surrogate for the
effect in the tumor. This biomarker analysis has been performed in a very large number of trials, and has been able
to indicate biological effects for many different classes of
agents; VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors have been associated with (often dose-dependent) changes in plasma levels
of VEGF (increasing) or plasma levels of soluble VEGFR-2
(decreasing), decreased phosphorylation of the EGFR has
been repeatedly observed in skin samples following exposure to various EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and a
decrease in farnesylation of surrogate proteins in buccal
scrapings was demonstrated following exposure to specific
farnesyl transferase inhibitors. Although there are examples of success, often we lack possibilities in pursuing this
in a meaningful and truly predictive way. Dynamic
enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DEMRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) are among the various
noninvasive biomarker analytical techniques that are being
explored to assess changes in tumor blood flow and tumor
viability, respectively following the administration of

Chapter 3:

angiogenesis inhibitors (45–47). Similarly there have been
efforts to project knowledge on plasma drug concentrations
in animal models yielding adequate effects on a tumor to
the human situation. Clearly this approach also suffers from
a lot of uncertainties. Whatever the procedure, one can
safely conclude that for optimal assessment of pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic effects more sophisticated
methods will have to become available, with a very close
cooperation between preclinical and clinical research groups
being here of crucial importance.
Enriching early clinical studies with the preferred
enrollment of patients that are most likely to benefit from
a new cancer agent is something that might seem to be
attractive from various perspectives; the number of patients
for whom the experimental treatment is not useful will
be minimized, thereby preventing disapointments from
their perspective, and the registrational pathway of a new
agent will be considerably shortened if based upon a
smaller number of patients the tumor types most likely to
be of further interest can be selected. The big question is
how to select these tumor types, and practically this means
that predictive factors or surrogate markers for response
are actively being looked for. Recent examples of these
markers were increased expression of the EGFR in many
epithelial tumor types such as NSCLC and colorectal
cancer.

Study Methodology: Phase II Studies
Phase II studies with classical cytotoxic anticancer agents
are designed to screen for antitumor activity, and the number and dimension of tumor regressions are usually taken
as end point. Well-defined response criteria exist (48).
For the development of cytostatic agents, inducing
growth inhibition rather than tumor regression, assessing
the latter will almost certainly lead to an underestimation
of antitumor activity, and therefore other end points will
have to be used in these studies. Time to progression could
serve this purpose, but as a consequence Phase II studies
using this end point should be randomized, possibly with
a placebo control group. If preclinical studies have shown
synergistic activity of a cytostatic agent with cytotoxic chemotherapy, it is also conceivable to use a similar design
comparing TTP on cytotoxic therapy with TTP on cytotoxic
therapy combined with a cytostatic agent. Another alternative is to assess antitumor activity through the so-called
randomized discontinuation design (49). In this design all
patients are treated for a predefined period of time, after
which the patients that did not progress are randomized
to continue treatment or to stop (or to receive a placebo
treatment). This design enables one to determine whether
slow tumor growth is attributable to the study drug or to
a naturally slow-growing tumor. The effect on biomarkers
such as serum tumor marker levels or target inhibition in
skin biopsies or leukocytes can also serve as surrogates of
clinical activity in the absence of tumor regression. This
could also serve to correlate pharmacokinetic with pharmacodynamic results in larger groups of patients. However,
one should realize that the induction of biological activity
does not necessarily translate into clinical activity.
Additional issues dealing with the design of phase I,
II, and III studies with both cytotoxic and cytostatic anticancer agents are dealt with in greater detail in chapter 4.

Principles and Examples of Cancer (Cell) Specific Therapies

53

OTHER POSSIBLE APPLICATIONS OF MOLECULAR
TARGETED THERAPY
Up to now, cancer (cell) specific therapy has been administered to patients with advanced malignant disease.
However, because of cytostatic mechanism of action, it is
unlikely that optimal clinical efficacy will be achieved
under these circumstances. Although it has been demonstrated in a large number of clinical studies that combining
molecular targeted agents with either cytotoxic chemotherapy or radiotherapy can have additive or even synergistic
anticancer activity, it still remains questionable whether the
application of these agents would not be more efficacious
in a situation of minimal residual disease, such as in the
one obtained following optimal surgical debulking and/or
optimal cytotoxic chemotherapy. Also an optimal effect of
cancer (cell) specific therapy will often require administration
for prolonged periods of time, and therefore oral treatment
devoid of dose-limiting side effects is strongly preferred.
As it is likely that more than one molecular target will be
relevant in a specific tumor, it is conceivable that in the
future combinations of target inhibiting agents will have to
be considered if optimal growth inhibition is to be achieved.
Currently, however, combining various classes of targeted
agents has mostly been explored in early clinical studies of
patients with advanced malignant disease. In early breast
cancer, a large adjuvant trial exploring the sequence or the
combination of two antiHER-2 therapies, namely trastuzumab and lapatinib, has started recruitment in 2007.
The question whether large groups of healthy persons
should be treated with molecular targeted agents in the
setting of chemoprevention cannot be answered adequately
at this moment. Especially in these cases, defining the target or targets of a tumor that is not (yet) clinically present
and that should be inhibited will be of crucial significance.
Once again, an agent that combines various specific target
inhibiting capacities within one tablet or capsule would be
preferable from a theoretical point of view.

CONCLUSION
The development and introduction of cancer (cell) specific
therapy has fundamentally changed our way of thinking
of cancer. It is very well possible that within the next few
years human tumors will be characterized with regard to
their key genetic or molecular targets, after which a highly
“individualized” therapy will be selected. After decades of
nonselective trial-and-error treatment this development
means nothing less than a fundamental breakthrough in
anticancer therapy.

REFERENCES
1.

Paez J, Janne P, Lee J et al. EGFR mutations in lung cancer:
correlation with clinical response to gefitinib therapy. Science
2004; 304: 1497–500.
2. Lynch T, Bell D, Sordella R et al. Activating mutations in the
epidermal growth factor receptor underlying responsiveness
of non-small-cell lung cancer to gefitinib. N Engl J Med 2004;
350: 2129–39.
3. Cunninham D, Humblet Y, Sinet S et al. Cetuximab monotherapy and cetuximab plus irinotecan in irinotecan-refractory
metastatic colorectal cancer. N Engl J Med 2004; 351: 337–45.

54

Section I: General Principles

4. Van Cutsem E, Nowacki M, Lang I et al. Randomized phase
III study of irinotecan and 5-FU/FA with or without cetuximab in the first-line treatment of patients with metastatic
colorectal cancer (mCRC): the CRYSTAL trial. J Clin Oncol
2007; 25(18S Suppl): abstract 4000.
5. Vermorken J, Mesia R, Vega V et al. Cetuximab extends
survival of patients with recurrent or metastatic SCCHN
when added to first line platinum based therapy—results of
a randomized phase III (extreme) study. J Clin Oncol 2007;
25(18S Suppl): abstract 6091.
6. Bonner J, Harrari P, Giralt J et al. Radiotherapy plus cetuximab for squamous-cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
N Engl J Med 2006; 354: 567–78.
7. Jonker D, O’Callaghan C, Karapetis C et al. Cetuximab for
the treatment of colorectal cancer. N Engl J Med 2007; 357:
2040–8.
8. Perez-Soler R, Saltz L. Cutaneous adverse effects with HER1/
EGFR-targeted agents: is there a silver lining? J Clin Oncol
2005; 23: 5235–46.
9. Giaccone G, Herbst R, Manegold C et al. Gefitinib in
combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin in advanced
non–small-cell lung cancer: a phase III trial—INTACT 1. J
Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 777–84.
10. Herbst R, Giaccone G, Schiller J et al. Gefitinib in combination
with paclitaxel and carboplatin in advanced non–small-cell
lung cancer: a phase III trial—INTACT 2. J Clin Oncol 2004;
22: 785–94.
11. Herbst R, Prager D, Hermann R et al. TRIBUTE: a phase III
trial of erlotinib hydrochloride (OSI-774) combined with
carboplatin and paclitaxel chemotherapy in advanced nonsmall-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 5892–9.
12. Gatzemeier U, Pluzanska A, Szczesna A et al. Phase III study
of erlotinib in combination with cisplatin and gemcitabine in
advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: the tarceva lung cancer
investigation trial. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 1545–52.
13. Shepherd J, Rodrigues Pereira J, Ciuleanu J et al. Erlotinib in
previously treated non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med
2005; 353: 123–32.
14. Haluska P, Shaw H, Batzel G et al. Phase I dose escalation
study of the anti insulin-like growth factor-I receptor monoclonal antibody CP-751,871 in patients with refractory solid
tumors. Clin Cancer Res 2007; 13: 5834–40.
15. Demetri G, von Mehren M, Blanke C et al. Efficacy and safety
of imatinib mesylate in advanced gastrointestinal stromal
tumors. N Engl J Med 2002; 347: 472–80.
16. O’Brien S, Guilhot F, Larson R et al. Imatinib compared to
interferon and low-dose cytarabine for newly diagnosed
chronic-phase chronic myeloid leukemia. N Engl J Med 2003;
348: 994–1004.
17. Peggs K, Mackinnon S. Imatinib mesylate-the new gold standard for treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia. N Engl J
Med 2003; 348: 1048–50.
18. Harousseau J, Lancet J, Reiffers J et al. A phase 2 study of
the oral farnesyltransferase inhibitor tipifarnib in patients with
refractory or relapsed acute myeloid leukemia. Blood 2007;
109: 5151–6.
19. Fenaux P, Raza A, Mufti G et al. A multicenter phase 2 study
of the farnesyltransferase inhibitor tipifarnib in intermediateto high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome. Blood 2007; 109:
4158–63.
20. Hudes G, Carducci M, Tomczak P et al. Temsirolimus, interferon alfa, or both for advanced renal-cell carcinoma. N Engl
J Med 2007; 356: 2271–81.
21. Sattler M, Salgia R. c-Met and hepatocyte growth factor:
potential as novel targets in cancer therapy. Curr Oncol Rep
2007; 9: 102–8.
22. Ferrara N, Alitalo K. Clinical applications of angiogenic growth
factors and their inhibitors. Nat Med 1999; 5: 1359–64.

23. Hurwitz H, Fehrenbacher L, Novotny W et al. Bevacizumab
plus irinotecan, fluorouracil, and leucovorin for metastatic
colorectal cancer. N Engl J Med 2004; 350: 2335–42.
24. Kabbinavar FF, Schultz J, McCleod H et al. Addition of bevacizumab to bolus fluorouracil and leucovorin in first-line
metastatic colorectal cancer: results of a randomized phase II
trial. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 3697–705.
25. Giantano BJ, Catalano PJ, Meroplo MJ et al. Bevacizumab
in combination with oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and leucovorin
(FOLFOX4) for previously treated metastatic colorectal cancer: results from the eastern cooperative oncology group
study E3200. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 1539–44.
26. Miller KD, Wang M, Gralow J et al. Paclitaxel plus bevacizumab versus paclitaxel alone for metastatic breast cancer.
N Engl J Med 2007; 357: 2666–76.
27. Sandler A, Gray R, Parry MC et al. Paclitaxel-carboplatin
alone or with bevacizumab for non-small-cell lung cancer.
N Engl J Med 2006; 355: 2542–50.
28. Manegold C, von Pawel J, Zatloukal P et al. Randomised,
double-blind multicentre phase III study of bevacizumab in
combination with cisplatin and gemcitabine in chemotherapynaïve patients with advanced or recurrent non-squamous
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): BO17704. J Clin Oncol
2007; 25(18S Suppl): abstract LBA7514.
29. Yang J, Haworth L, Sherry R et al. A randomized trial of bevacizumab, an antivascular endothelial growth factor antibody,
for metastatic renal cancer. N Engl J Med 2003; 349: 427–34.
30. Escudier B, Pluzanska A, Koralewski P et al. Bevacizumab
plus interferon alfa-2a for treatment of metastatic renal cell
carcinoma: a randomised, double-blind phase III trial. Lancet
2007; 370: 2103–11.
31. Youssoufian H, Hicklin DJ, Rowinsky EK. Monoclonal antibodies to the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2.
Clin Cancer Res 2007; 13: 5544s–8s.
32. Escudier BA, Eisen T, Stadler WM et al. Sorafenib in advanced
clear-cell renal-cell carcinoma. N Engl J Med 2007; 356:
125–34.
33. Llovet J, Ricci J, Mazzaferro V et al. Sorafenib in advanced
hepatocellular carcinoma. N Engl J Med 2008; 359: 378–90.
34. Motzer RJ, Hudson TE, Tomczak P et al. Sunitinib versus
interferon alfa in metastatic renal-cell carcinoma. N Engl J
Med 2007; 356: 115–24.
35. Demetri GD, van Oosterom AT, Garrett CR et al. Efficacy
and safety of sunitinib in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumour after failure of imatinib: a randomised
controlled trial. Lancet 2006; 368: 1329–38.
36. Hecht JR, Trarbach T, Jaeger E et al. A randomized, doubleblind, placebo-controlled, Phase III study in patients (Pts) with
metastatic adenocarcinoma of the colon or rectum receiving
first-line chemotherapy with oxaliplatin/5-fluorouracil/
leucovorin and PTK787/ZK 222584 or placebo (CONFIRM-1).
J Clin Oncol 2005; 23(16S Suppl): LBA3.
37. Rini B, Tamaskar I, Shaheen P et al. Hypothyroidism in
patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma treated with
sunitinib. J Natl Cancer Inst 2007; 99: 81–3.
38. Chu T, Rupnick M, Kerkela R et al. Cardiotoxicity associated
with tyrosine kinase inhibitor sunitinib. Lancet 2007; 370:
2011–19.
39. Dimopoulos M, Spencer A, Attal M et al. Lenalidomide plus
dexamethasone for relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.
N Engl J Med 2007; 357: 2123–32.
40. Melchert M, Kale V, List A. The role of lenalidomide in
the treatment of patients with chromosome 5q deletion and
other myelodysplastic syndromes. Curr Opin Hematol 2007;
14: 123–9.
41. Nabors L, Mikkelsen T, Rosenfeld S et al. Phase I and correlative biology study of cilengitide in patients with recurrent
malignant glioma. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 1651–7.

Chapter 3:
42. Siemann D, Bibby M, Dark G et al. Differentiation and definition of vascular-targeted therapies. Clin Cancer Res 2005;
11: 416–20.
43. Galbraith S, Maxwell R, Lodge M et al. Combretastatin A4
phosphate has tumor antivascular activity in rat and man
as demonstrated by dynamic magnetic resonance imaging.
J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 2831–42.
44. Anderson H, Yap J, Miller M et al. Assessment of pharmacodynamic vascular response in a phase I trial of Combretastatin A4 phosphate. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 2823–30.
45. Liu G, Rugo H, Wilding G et al. Dynamic contrast-enhanced
magnetic resonance imaging as a pharmacodynamic measure of response after acute dosing of AG-013736, an oral
angiogenesis inhibitor, in patients with advanced solid
tumors: results from a phase I study. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23:
5464–73.

Principles and Examples of Cancer (Cell) Specific Therapies
46.

55

Morgan B, Thomas A, Drevs J et al. Dynamic contrastenhanced magnetic resonance imaging as a biomarker for the
pharmacological response of PTK787/ZK 222584, an inhibitor
of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine
kinases, in patients with advanced colorectal cancer and liver
metastases: results from two phase I studies. J Clin Oncol
2003; 21: 3955–64.
47. De Geus-Oei, van der Heijden H, Visser E et al. Chemotherapy response evaluation with 18F-FDG PET in patients
with non-small cell lung cancer. J Nucl Med 2007; 48: 1592–8.
48. Therasse P, Arbuck SG, Eisenhauer E et al. New guidelines
to evaluate the response to treatment in solid tumors. J Natl
Cancer Inst 2000; 92: 205–16.
49. Rosner G, Stadler W, Ratain M. Randomized discontinuation
design: application to cytostatic antineoplastic agents. J Clin
Oncol 2002; 20: 4478–84.

4
1
Principles of Clinical Trials
Wendy R. Parulekar, Elizabeth A. Eisenhauer, and Richard D. Gelber

the U.S. National Cancer Institute (USNCI) in 1982 led
to the creation of “Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC),”
which has undergone several revisions, most recently to
CTCAE v 3.0 (http://ctep.cancer.gov/forms/CTCAEv3.pdf),
to respond to the need for expanded toxicity categories.
WHO Response Criteria were modified by many research
groups to accommodate individual needs, which led to noncomparable definitions for response in some situations. To
address this issue, the International Working Party developed
a revised set of tumor measurement guidelines, the “RECIST”
criteria (2) that have been widely adopted. Further, another
International Working Group developed standard response
criteria for lymphomas(3) (see section “End points”).
The Guideline for Good Clinical Practice (http://www.
ich.org/LOB/media/MEDIA482.pdf) is the product of an
international collaboration of regulatory agencies to achieve
harmonized standards and requirements for the registration
of medicinal products internationally (International Conference on Harmonization or ICH). This effort, which applies
broadly to pharmaceutical development in all areas of medicine, has been underway since 1989. Topics for guideline
development include quality, safety, efficacy, and statistical
considerations in clinical trials. As each topic is identified,
several formal steps of discussion and development take
place, which culminate in a final guideline recommended
for adoption by government regulatory agencies.

INTRODUCTION
Clinical trials are experiments conducted on human subjects for the purpose of evaluating one or more therapeutic
interventions. Observational studies on cancer patients can
generate knowledge about cancer behavior, biologic determinants of outcome, and hypotheses about therapeutic
benefit. However, observational studies cannot control for
factors that might influence outcome. Only through clinical
trials can therapeutic interventions be reliably assessed. All
aspects of the study rationale, objectives, design, treatments,
data requirements, statistical justification, and analysis plan
are detailed in the protocol document. As a clinical trial is
an experiment, it must begin with a hypothesis or question:
What are the toxic and/or biologic effects of a treatment
or intervention? What effect does an intervention have on
rates of tumor response, or on time to relapse, progression
or death? To be successful, a study must clearly define the
primary question and outcome measure(s) of interest, utilize an appropriate design and sample size to address the
question, and collect and analyze data according to prespecified criteria. Increasingly clinical studies are enriched
by the addition of secondary end points including quality
of life and biomarker studies. Furthermore, studies conducted on human subjects must comply with international
standards of ethical review and conduct. Finally, at the conclusion of each trial the interpretation of its results should
be undertaken in the context of preexisting knowledge in
the particular clinical setting studied. This chapter addresses
all such aspects of clinical trials in cancer patients.

ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS
International standards have also evolved with respect to
the ethical conduct of trials and the protection of human
subjects in medical research. The Nuremberg Code (1947)
and the Declaration of Helsinki (1964) defined principles
to govern biomedical research and protect the rights, safety,
and well-being of trial subjects. Specifically delineated were
issues of informed consent and its voluntary nature, the
need for scientific rigor in the rationale and design of the
proposed investigation, balance in the potential risks and
benefits of the investigation, and the obligation to truthfully
report results. Other jurisdictions have elaborated on these
principles, in some cases defining regulations governing
the conduct of clinical research. The Guideline for Good Clinical Practice reaffirms the principles of the Declaration of
Helsinki. It also details the process of ethical committee
review of research, the content of consent forms, the obligations of the investigator and the sponsor in clinical trials,
the required elements of clinical research protocols, and
the documents which must be in place prior to beginning
a clinical trial.

INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS AND HARMONIZATION
Today clinical cancer research takes place in an international arena. For this process to be effective, those engaged
in clinical cancer research require a common “language”
to describe trial outcomes. In the 1970s, the World Health
Organization (WHO) initiated a series of international meetings to standardize the reporting of cancer study results
and their recommendations, “Reporting Results of Cancer
Treatment,” were published in 1981 (1). Included in it were
sections regarding reporting of baseline patient data, treatment delivery, toxic effects (WHO toxicity criteria), objective response, time-to-event results, and general guidelines
on reporting trial results.
The WHO recommendations were widely adopted
but with time were found wanting in certain areas. The
toxicity criteria were limited and did not allow for descriptions of many toxic effects of treatment. An initiative by
56

Chapter 4:

The ethical issues associated with Phase I cancer trials have received special attention because the study population is believed to be a vulnerable one: being comprised
of individuals with a stage of disease for which standard
or curative therapy has been exhausted. In this setting it
is the task of the investigator to assure that the process of
consent does not overemphasize the potential benefits of
an untested treatment but instead conveys in lay language
the true goal of the Phase I trial: to determine dosing recommendations for further study, often using toxicity information as a guide (vide infra). Although often unstated, the
goals of the patient may be at variance with this. Thus there
are challenges to ethical committees, educators, and investigators to be cognizant of this special area of concern and
to train physicians in the skills required to discuss the benefits and risks of enrolling patients on Phase I studies (4).
Ethical issues are also relevant for randomized clinical trials in which the choice of treatment is determined
by a chance mechanism (5,6). A distinction is made between
the roles of physician investigator whose primary responsibility is the welfare of the patient, and that of the clinical
scientist who also has an interest in conducting clinical
research. Some have argued that these roles are in conflict
when the care of individual patients is at stake, thus making
randomized trials inherently unethical. Others argue that
applying therapies without substantial evidence concerning their safety and effectiveness is unethical and that the
most valid way to obtain unbiased evidence is from randomized studies. A balance is required between the benefit/
risk for individual patients versus the value of the trial to
future patients. The oversight of research by an independent ethical review committee helps to assure this balance.
When in doubt, the concerns for the individual patient
should take precedence over the concerns for the study.
Respect for the patients as individuals is also a central
aspect of ethical conduct in clinical research.

THE PROTOCOL DOCUMENT
A carefully conceived and executed protocol document is
essential for conducting a high-quality clinical trial. The
Table 4.1

Principles of Clinical Trials

57

elements of the protocol document are listed in Table 4.1.
Unless the essential elements are defined clearly before the
commencement of the trial, the potential for obtaining
biased and uninterpretable results exists. For example, bias
can occur if dose reductions and procedures to be followed
in case of toxic reactions are not specified. Regulatory
authorities consider the protocol to be the definitive prospective plan for the clinical trial.

DATA MANAGEMENT AND QUALITY CONTROL
Good data management practices for conducting a highquality clinical trial must be the responsibility of trained
data managers rather than busy clinicians (7). Assurance
that informed consent was obtained, that proper verification of eligibility criteria prior to patient enrollment was
carried out, and recording of treatment information are the
first steps. Data monitoring of studies and quality control
audits are fundamental aspects of the Guideline for Good
Clinical Practice. Data fraud in biomedical research is rare,
but when it occurs the loss of confidence in clinical trials
can be devastating. Protocols must therefore be designed
in such a way that they are feasible to conduct with good
quality control standards.

THE CLINICAL TRIAL PARADIGM
To understand the statistical principles for the design and
analysis of clinical trials, it is important to distinguish
between the observed outcomes obtained from the study
and the effects that the treatment might produce in the
larger target population. This distinction is illustrated in
Figure 4.1. The protocol document defines the patient
population of interest. The clinical trial recruits a sample
of opportunity. The study end points obtained from the
selected sample are recorded and the results are summarized using statistical methods to describe the observed results
obtained in the sample and to infer what the true treatment
effect might be in the patient population based on the
observed results. The lower portion of Figure 4.1 illustrates

Elements of the Protocol Document

Protocol section

Description

Study schema

Pictorial summary of the essential elements of the study design. This should be simple and logical and reflect the
study objectives
Description of current state of knowledge that justifies the planning and conduct of the trial
Few in number and achievable with the proposed study design
Clearly defined and ideally homogeneous cohort. Eligibility and ineligibility criteria should be easily verifiable at the
time of patient enrollment, and the rationale for the criteria should be consistent with the study objectives
Randomization used to avoid bias in comparative trials, stratification to achieve prognostic factor balance or to
prospectively define intended subgroup analyses. Discussion of placebo control group, crossover plan, etc.
Description of treatment administration, schedule, duration, potential toxicities, dose modification criteria
Patient visit schedules, clinical and laboratory data to be obtained
Standardization and quantification of criteria for the evaluation of treatment effects. Definition of primary and
secondary end points for analysis
Review and justification of study design, presentation of sample size determinations, description of monitoring policies
and plans for interim analyses, and outline of data analysis plan
Simple, efficient, and comparable schedules for all treatment arms. Discussion of special quality control procedures
Description of study rationale and objectives, risks, benefits, alternative treatments (including no additional therapy),
and statement of the right to withdraw in terms that can be understood by the patients

Background and rationale
Objectives
Patient population
Treatment allocation
Treatment
Follow-up procedures
End points
Statistical considerations
Forms submission
Informed consent

58

Section I: General Principles

Paradigm:
Patient population

Sample of opportunity
(protocol patients)

Observed results

Inference about the population
Example:
Postmenopausal
patients with operable
node-positive
breast cancer

Randomized clinical trialref
comparing five years of
Tamoxifen (n = 306) versus
three cycles of CMF plus
five years of Tamoxifen
(n = 302) - IBCSG trial VII

Five-year disease-free
survival estimates:
Tamoxifen alone = 55%
CMF + Tamoxifen = 64%

Observed results are statistically significant (p = 0.02).
Conclude that adding CMF to Tamoxifen is effective for
postmenopausal women with operable, node-positive breast cancer

an example for a Phase III study (8). In this case the 5-year
disease-free survival percents provide the descriptive estimates summarizing the study results and the p value provides the statistical inference indicating that the observed
results could be expected only 2 times out of 100 if the two
treatments were actually equally effective for the patient
population.
The observed result from a clinical trial is a combination of the average true effect of treatment for the patient
population, systematic error (or bias), and random error
(or variability). The objectives of clinical trial methodology
are (1) to minimize biases that might produce observed
treatment effects that are distortions of the real impact
of treatment, and (2) to control the variability of the trial
estimates by evaluating an adequate sample size to detect
treatment effects that might be reasonably expected. All of
the principles of clinical trials discussed below are designed
to achieve one or both of these objectives.

END POINTS
Explicit descriptions of the end points of clinical trials are
important if results are to be properly interpreted. The study
end point quantifies the effect of the treatments being studied. It can consist of (1) a quantitative (discrete or continuous) measurement on each patient at a particular point
in time, or “longitudinally,” that is, several times throughout the follow-up time; (2) the observation of whether or
not a particular event has taken place; or (3) the time elapsed
between a prefixed time point (such as randomization or
initiation of treatment) and the moment when a certain
event occurs.
An example of a continuous outcome belonging to
category (1) is the measurement of bone mineral density at
the end of treatment. The emotional well-being of a patient
assessed at predetermined times on a scale with multiple
levels is an example of a longitudinal quantitative measure with “categorical” outcomes. Examples of outcomes

Figure 4.1 Clinical trial paradigm and
example for a Phase III trial. Abbreviations:
CMF, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and
fluorouracil; IBCSG, International Breast
Cancer Study Group. Source: From Ref. 8.

of type (2), frequently referred to as “events,” are disease
progression within 1 year, objective response to treatment,
or the occurrence of some toxic reaction. The outcomes in
category (3) are usually called “survival times,” but the
final event which defines the time interval does not have
to be death (in fact, progression-free and disease-free survival are common end points). Not all patients will have
had the event of interest by the time of the data analysis.
The “survival time” of these patients is only known up to
a lower bound (the latest time that they were observed as
not having had the event), and these “survival times” are
called “censored.” The presence of censored observations
complicates the analysis of the trial data. In particular,
the reported results may be subject to bias if the chance of
censoring is related to treatment, for instance if some
patients never returned for later visits (“lost to follow-up”)
because of toxic effects or worsening of their health.
The choice of the end point of interest must be specified during the design phase of the trial as it affects the
selection of the statistical techniques for the analysis of the
results, and the sample size required to properly evaluate
treatments. The following section discusses several other
types of outcomes frequently evaluated in cancer clinical
trials: toxic effects, tumor response, biomarkers, quality of
life, and economic measures.

Toxic (Adverse) Effects
Toxicity is an important measurement in cancer clinical trials as most therapeutic interventions in cancer cause significant morbidity. Toxicity criteria describe adverse effects
in categories and grades with Grade 0 meaning “normal”
or “none” and Grade 4 meaning life-threatening toxicity.
The most commonly used criteria in cancer trials are the
Common Toxicity Criteria developed by the USNCI. The
original version contained 49 toxicity terms grouped into
18 categories. Modifications have added new terms to categorize new effects of treatment and to allow for more
comprehensive reporting. In 2003, version 3.0 of the criteria

Chapter 4:

(now called Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse
Events or CTCAE) was launched. CTCAE v 3.0 contains
more than 200 adverse event terms grouped into 28 categories (http://ctep.cancer.gov/forms/CTCAEv3.pdf).
Adverse event terms include toxic effects of treatment, symptoms of disease, or other medical events. Most
trials require a baseline assessment to document symptoms
or residual toxic effects from previous treatment and then
periodic assessments over the course of the therapy. In
general, toxicity is reported in tabular form as the worst
grade for each effect for each patient. Duration of toxic
effects and relationship to study treatment may also be
described. In randomized trials, comparison of toxic effects
between treatment arms is an important component of the
analysis.

Objective Tumor Response
Tumor response refers to the description of objective change
in measured disease during the course of therapy. As noted
above, many variations from the original WHO criteria
developed in the decades since their publication, which led
to confusion in interpretation of trial results (9). In fact, the
application of varying response criteria can lead to strikingly
different conclusions about the efficacy of the same regimen (10). In response to these problems, an International
Working Party was formed in the mid-1990s to standardize
and simplify response criteria. New criteria, known as
the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST
criteria), were published in 2000 (2). Like earlier criteria,
RECIST response assessment requires baseline measurement of malignant lesions and then periodic reevaluations
to determine the maximal degree of shrinkage (if any) or
growth of the overall tumor burden. Unlike earlier criteria
in which tumor assessments were based on the sum of the
products of bidimensional measurable lesions, the RECIST
criteria define measurable disease on the basis of only a
single diameter and determine the tumor burden by summing the longest diameters of measurable lesions.
Using the RECIST definitions, a complete response
(CR) requires the disappearance of all evidence of disease.
Partial response (PR) is a 30% or more decrease in the sum
of longest diameters of measurable lesions. Progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in sum of longest
diameters of measurable lesions or the appearance of new
disease. Stable disease (SD) is a state that does not meet
either PR or PD criteria. In addition, CR and PR must be
confirmed by repeat measurements no less than four weeks
after the first set of measurements were performed. Nonmeasurable lesions must disappear for CR status. In trials
where objective response is an end point, patients are
assigned a “best response” to therapy on the basis of the
above definitions and a response rate is reported.
Objective response is generally utilized only in Phase
II studies, as a primary end point, where it can provide
an objective measure from which decisions can be taken
regarding further study of the drug or regimen. Thus, it is
used as a surrogate measure of efficacy—a sufficiently high
response rate can indicate that the regimen under study
has the potential to improve survival. However, the fact that
a regimen can produce responses is not proof that it will
also improve survival: that requires testing in an appropriately designed study.

Principles of Clinical Trials

59

Biomarkers
The term “biomarker” has been defined as a “characteristic that is objectively measured and evaluated as an indicator of normal biologic processes, pathogenic processes or
pharmacologic responses to a therapeutic intervention (11).”
“Biomarker” thus means many things and the actual
meaning depends on the clinical setting in which the term
is applied. For example, biomarkers include laboratory
or imaging measures of molecular changes in tumors in
response to drug treatment (so-called pharmacodynamic
effects); change in tumor size (objective response); blood,
urine, or radiologic findings associated with early cancer
detection, prognostic indicators or predictors of treatment
effect. A prognostic (bio)marker is one that provides information about the outcome of an individual who is marker
positive, in the absence of therapy or when treated with
empiric therapy. A predictive (bio)marker is one that predicts the differential efficacy of a particular therapy based
on marker status (12). Finally, a biomarker may be defined
in a regulatory environment as a surrogate end point for
clinical benefit in the drug approval process (13).
Biomarkers guide drug discovery and development
by contributing to target selection and assessment of its
modulation in preclinical and early clinical studies. The
increased understanding of the molecular basis of cancer
has led to the use of the term “biomarker” as a synonym
for the molecular properties of cells such as gene and gene
products (mRNA and proteins). It has also led to the integration of biomarkers in the clinical trial design as an aid
to the selection of drug dose and schedule (Phase I), demonstration of drug activity (Phase II), evaluation of drug
efficacy in a randomized setting (Phase III), including the
use as a means of selecting patient populations most likely
to benefit.
A major challenge to the use of biomarkers in preclinical and clinical studies relates to the issue of assay
methodology. Although drug and assay development may
occur in parallel, there exists an urgent need to standardize
the methodologies and reporting of biomarker assay results
in all phases of clinical trial research. Examples of these
requirements include descriptions of specimen handling
and reagent preparation as well as data regarding assay
sensitivity, specificity, and reproducibility.

Quality of Life (QOL), Health Related Quality of Life
(HRQOL), and Patient-Reported Outcomes (PROs)
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) stated that
efficacy with respect to overall survival and/or improvements in QOL might provide the basis for drug approval
(14). QOL represents a broad construct encompassing all
aspects of a person’s well-being. HRQOL is more specific
representing an individual’s perceptions of how an illness
and its treatment affect, at a minimum, the physical, mental,
and social aspects of his or her life. Recently, the assessment
of HRQOL has been further refined to consider patientreported outcomes (PROs), a measurement of any aspect of
a patient’s health status that comes directly from the patient,
without the interpretation of the patient’s responses by a
physician or anyone else (15). In clinical trials, a PRO instrument can be used to measure the impact of an intervention
on one or more aspects of patients’ health status, ranging
from the purely symptomatic (response of a headache) to

60

Section I: General Principles

more complex concepts (e.g., ability to carry out activities
of daily living), to extremely complex concepts such as
HRQOL (16). Including PRO measurements in clinical trials is relevant only if there is a clear hypothesis to be tested
and a methodology and analysis plan prospectively defined.
For example, for patients with advanced disease, PROs may
be measured to document the palliative benefits of therapies given to patients who are symptomatic.
Health Related Quality of Life and PRO measurements can be analyzed using univariate, multivariate, or
longitudinal methods. Univariate analyses are used to compare group means based on individual scales. Multivariate
analyses can adjust these mean values for multiple factors
such as treatment, patient characteristics, and disease status.
Longitudinal analyses evaluate change over time based on
assessments taken at multiple time points. Statistical issues
concerning how to handle dropouts and missing QOL
assessments must be considered (17).
Quality-adjusted survival is an end point that considers both quality and quantity of life. Generally, this end
point represents a patient’s survival time weighted by
utility values ranging from zero (as bad as death) to one
(perfect health) and reflecting patient preferences for time
spent in a particular health state. One approach to evaluating quality-adjusted survival time within clinical trials is
the Quality-adjusted Time Without Symptoms of disease
or Toxicity of treatment method (Q-TWiST) (18,19). To
apply the Q-TWiST method, clinical health states that can
occur during the course of the patients’ treatment and
follow-up are defined to reflect changes in clinical status
that may be associated with changes in QOL. For example,
one clinical health state may be associated with toxicity
caused by treatment (Tox), another associated with disease
progression (Prog), a third associated with the development of late sequelae such as cardiac dysfunction (LS), and
a fourth representing a relatively good state of health associated with none of the above (TWiST). The second step is
to use a nested sequence of Kaplan-Meier curves to partition the overall survival time of each treatment group
separately. The areas between these curves provide estimates of the average amount of time patients spend in each
of the defined clinical health states. The third step is to
compare the overall quality-adjusted survival between the
two treatment groups using a variety of weights for the
health states. Sensitivity analyses based on threshold utility
plots indicate the utility weights for which one treatment
would be preferred to another. Patient-derived utility
weights can also be incorporated in a Q-TWiST analysis
(20). In cancer medicine, Q-TWiST has been used to evaluate adjuvant therapies for breast cancer (21,22), interferon
treatment for melanoma (23), bone marrow transplant for
childhood acute myeloid leukemia (24), and therapies for
advanced disease (25).

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis (CEA)
There is an increasing emphasis on cost savings and cost
containment in providing medical services and therapies.
Methodological and statistical issues relating to this initiative must be considered (26). Economic evaluation involves
analysis of alternative strategies considering both health
improvements and financial resource implications. CEA is
the accepted method of economic evaluation of health care
alternatives, according to the report by the U.S. Panel on

Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine (27). It compares
two different approaches by considering the ratio of incremental costs divided by incremental effectiveness (measured
in units of quality-adjusted life years [QALYs]). Collecting
individual patient cost data and measuring QALYs longitudinally represent challenges for the conduct of economic
evaluations alongside clinical trials (28).

ANALYSIS OF CLINICAL TRIAL RESULTS
The choice of the analysis method for the clinical trial data
depends on the end point to be analyzed. The two most
common measures of treatment effect encountered are based
on the proportion of events and the survival distribution.

Proportion of Events
The proportion of events is defined as the ratio between
the number of patients in a group for whom an event
has been observed and the total number of patients in that
group. When computed for the sample of trial patients, this
ratio is an estimate of the true proportion of events that
one would observe if the treatment were to be assigned to
the whole patient population represented by the sample.
As an estimate based on a limited number of patients, the
ratio will vary around the true population proportion if the
trial were repeated many times.
The analysis of a trial whose end point is a proportion of events usually produces a point estimate, a confidence
interval, and a statistical test of hypothesis about the population proportion. A point estimate is the observed proportion of successes, computed within each patient subgroup
in the trial (e.g., within each treatment arm). A confidence
interval for the population proportion of successes is a pair
of values (p1, p2) such that the population proportion can
be expected to fall within the interval with a given level of
confidence. The precise interpretation of a confidence interval is that if one were to repeat the trial a large number
of times (on different samples of patients) and compute a
95% confidence interval for the population proportion from
each of the trials, then approximately 95% of the resulting
intervals would actually contain the true population proportion. Confidence intervals can be generated, which have
any level of confidence between 0% and 100%. The width
of the interval will become larger as the required level of
confidence increases, including the entire range between
0 and 1 in order to achieve a 100% level of confidence.
This is obviously not very informative. A confidence level
of 95% is standard practice.
A test of hypothesis consists of a statistical procedure
designed to give an answer to the following kind of questions: “Can we reject the hypothesis (null hypothesis) that
the two proportions of events pA and pB for treatments A
and B applied to the whole patient population are identical?” Other questions that may be answered are “Can
we reject the hypothesis that the proportion of events in
a specific treatment arm is at least 20%?” The statistical
theory of hypothesis testing in clinical trials involves specifying an alternative hypothesis and an admissible type I error
(or α [alpha] level). The type I error is the probability
of rejecting the null hypothesis when it was actually true.
A type I error of 5% is commonly accepted. The definition
of the alternative hypothesis involves choosing the direction of the treatment difference to be considered “extreme”

Chapter 4:

in the testing procedure. Suppose response to treatment is
taken as the “event” of interest, and that pE and pC are the
response rates corresponding to experimental therapy and
control therapy, respectively. If the possibility that pE < pC
is not at all clinically interesting, then pE > pC would be
the alternative hypothesis of interest. Such an alternative
hypothesis is called “one-sided” to distinguish it from the
“two-sided” alternative hypothesis “pE ≠ pC,” which will
reject the null hypothesis whenever the evidence from the
trial is either in the direction pE <pC or in the direction pE >
pC. In the context of Phase III clinical trials the use of twosided alternative hypotheses is highly recommended, as it
is possible that a promising experimental therapy could
actually prove to be less effective than the standard therapy. A statistical test is said to reject the null hypothesis at
the level of significance 100α percent if the value of a quantity
computed from the data (the “test statistic”) falls within a
given interval (the “rejection region”). Such intervals
contain all the values of the test statistic that are considered to be “too extreme,” where being “extreme” is defined
by the specified alternative hypothesis and the level of
significance.
An alternative and equivalent way of conducting a
test of hypothesis is the computation of a p value. A p
value is the probability that a value for the test statistic
equal to or more extreme than the one observed can be
obtained if the null hypothesis is assumed to be true. Rejection
of the null hypothesis is then declared whenever the p
value is smaller than the preassigned value of the type I
error α, usually set at 5%.

Survival Data
When the end point is a survival time, the population
characteristic of interest is the survival distribution rather
than just the number of events. A survival distribution is
the probability distribution of the variable “survival time,”

Disease-free survival:
patients surviving and free of disease (%)

100

• the units on the vertical axis (does the probability
of survival shown range from 0 to 1, or is the scale
truncated?);
• the scale of the vertical axis (are the survival curves
drawn according to log scale or a linear scale?);
• the units on the horizontal scale (over what length of
time does the survival curve extend?);
• the amount of follow-up time available for the sample
used to plot the curves (how many patients remain at
risk to be included in the analysis at the tails of the
curves?).
The plot in Figure 4.2 shows a linear vertical scale
ranging from 0% to 100%, a horizontal scale extending to
24 months from date of randomization, and a reasonable
number of patients at risk at 2 years (the median follow-up
was 1 year at the time of the data cutoff, because the treatment difference at the first interim efficacy analysis was so
significant that the IDMC recommended release of study
results earlier than anticipated) (30).

Trastuzumab 1 year

80
Observation only

60
50
40
30
20
10

Events

2-year
DFS %

95% Cl

Hazard
ratio

127

85.8

(83–89)

0.54 (0.43–0.67) <0.0001

220

77.4

(74–81)

95% Cl

p-Value

0
0

6

Trastuzumab 1 year

1694

1172

885

532

268

Observation only

1693

1108

767

445

224

No. at risk

61

and it quantifies the probability that a randomly selected
patient survives (or, more generally, “does not have an
event”) until a given time point. There is one such probability for each time point, and one can plot the survival
curve (or probability of surviving) versus the time axis.
Just as with the proportion of events, survival distributions obtained from an individual trial can only provide
an estimate of the true population distribution. The estimated curve (the equivalent of the point estimate) will
also vary around the real population distribution. The
Kaplan-Meier method(29) is the statistical approach most
frequently used to estimate the survival distribution. An
example of a Kaplan-Meier estimate of a survival function
is shown in Figure 4.2. Some key features to look for and
related questions to ask when examining a survival plot
are listed below:

90

70

Principles of Clinical Trials

12
18
Months from randomization

24

Figure 4.2 Kaplan-Meier estimates of the
two disease-free survival distributions for the
1-year trastuzumab (Herceptin®) group and for
the observation only group from the Herceptin
Adjuvant (HERA) Trial. (30) The median
follow-up of patients for this analysis is 1 year;
the Independent Data Monitoring Committee
(IDMC) released results earlier than anticipated
because the treatment difference at the first
interim analysis was so significant. Also shown
are the estimated percentages of patients surviving disease-free at 2 years from randomization, the 95% confidence intervals for these
estimates, the logrank p value for the treatment comparison, and the number of patients
who remain at risk over time. The hazards
ratio estimate—comparing the risk of an event
in the trastuzumab group to the risk of an
event in the observation only group—is 0.54
(95% confidence interval, 0.43–0.67) indicating a 46% reduction in the risk of an event
with the trastuzumab treatment. Abbrevations: DFS, disease free survival; CI, confidence interval.

62

Section I: General Principles

Tests of hypothesis can be conducted on survival
distributions. Equality of the survival distributions corresponding to two treatments is the hypothesis ordinarily
tested in clinical trials having a survival end point. Such
a test is conducted by computing a test statistic called the
logrank statistic. This test is most powerful under the
assumption that the ratio of the logarithm of the two true
survival distributions is constant over time, which is not
true if, for instance, the two survival curves cross or there
is a plateau in one or both of the curves. Cure rate models
might be more appropriate for the latter situation. Multiple
regression analysis techniques are available to account
for the effect of prognostic factors in the analysis of both
proportions of events [logistic models (31)] and survival
distributions [proportional hazards models (32)]. All of the
above statistical methods are discussed in standard textbooks and are also readily available in statistical packages.

DEVELOPMENT AND EVALUATION
OF NEW THERAPEUTIC APPROACHES
As noted at the beginning of this chapter, clinical trials are
experiments conducted on human subjects, which address
therapeutic questions. An important role of some studies
is to amass the safety and efficacy information necessary
to license a new therapeutic, though there are also numerous clinical trials conducted without that specific goal in
mind. In Europe, the Committee for Medicinal Products
for Human Use (CMPH) of the European Medicines
Agency (EMEA) has provided important notes for guidance on conducting studies in cancer patients for the purpose of evaluating new anticancer medicines.a
In general, before any new drug can be licensed for
approval randomized data demonstrating efficacy (progression-free or relapse-free survival, overall survival, palliation) must be demonstrated. In the United States, the
Code of Federal Regulations describes similar criteria,
though as of 1992 there is an additional provision to allow
accelerated approval based on surrogate end points reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit.
The approval in these circumstances may be based
on nonrandomized data, but the approval is contingent on
there being a commitment to perform a randomized study
to confirm clinical benefit (for a review see Ref. 33).
Traditionally, clinical trials are divided into three
stages or phases: I, II, and III. In addition, recently in the
United States, the Food and Drug Administration created
the designation of “Phase 0” trials which are exploratory
first-in-human trials that are designed to speed up the
development of promising drugs by establishing very early
on whether the drug or agent behaves in human subjects
as was anticipated from preclinical studies (34). Phase I
and II trials are most easily differentiated from each other
within the context of the development of a new agent or
therapeutic maneuver, where clear goals are articulated
for each trial phase and decisions about the continued

a

See CMPH/EMEA Note for Guidance: Evaluation of Anticancer
Medicinal Products in Man at http://www.emea.europa.eu/pdfs/
human/ewp/020595en.pdf and http://www.emea.europa.eu/pdfs/
human/ewp/2799408en.pdf

evaluation of the new agent are made at the conclusion of
phase I and II studies.
However, the concepts described here also apply
to the evaluation of “old” drugs in new combinations,
although within this context trials may combine the goals
of phase I and II studies within a single protocol. The
principles in the design and analysis of Phase III trials
described below have identical application in the comparative study of new versus standard therapy and in the
comparative evaluation of two or more standard therapeutic
approaches.

Preclinical Data
The preclinical evaluation of any new drug should provide data on drug mechanism of action, pharmacology,
toxicology, and efficacy. Essential pharmacokinetic (PK) data
includes information regarding absorption, distribution,
metabolism, and excretion for single and repeated drug
administration schedules.
In compliance with international regulations, toxicology data, both acute and chronic, must be available from
two animal species with data from the most sensitive species used to guide selection of the starting dose in subsequent Phase I studies (see ICH Guidelines M3, S4, S4A, S6,
S7A, S7B on this topic at www.ich.org).
Biomarker studies should also be completed to give
information about the molecular pharmacodynamic effects
(“proof of principle”) of the drug in tumor and normal
tissues (35). Early identification of novel biomarkers in the
drug discovery process is recommended to allow for the
development and validation of bioanalytical methods prior
to the commencement of clinical studies (36). When the
molecular target of interest is also expressed in noncancerous tissue, then drug effect in those tissues can be studied
and correlated with the changes seen in tumor tissue. These
data may be used to guide dose selection in clinical studies
when tumor sampling may not be feasible.
Regardless of the mechanism of action of any drug,
antitumor efficacy in appropriate preclinical models must
be demonstrated as a prerequisite for evaluation in clinical studies. Accepted efficacy end points for molecularly
targeted agents include tumor shrinkage or inhibition of
tumor growth (growth delay). The relationship between
optimal antitumor effects in models and pharmacological
exposure to drug with biomarker/target changes in tissues is an important piece of information to guide clinical
development.
Finally, preclinical evidence of predictive tumor markers is important to garner: Is the drug effect limited to tumors
of certain histologies? With specific molecular changes?
These data, too, will guide clinical development.

Phase 0 Trials
As noted above, Phase 0 trials are a relatively new entity
in cancer drug development. The goals of these studies are
to establish drug specific biomarker assay methodology
and feasibility in limited numbers of patients as a means
of guiding subsequent drug development and ultimately,
compressing timelines for new agent approval and enabling
early identification of therapeutic failures (37). Other Phase
0 trials may be directed to selecting the better of two analogues for Phase I development on the basis of PK profile,

Chapter 4:

absorption characteristics, or other attributes. Limiting the
number of dose levels and patients under evaluation lessens the need for extensive preclinical pharmacological and
toxicology data. An example of a possible Phase 0 clinical
trial involves the preoperative setting for patients with
early breast cancer. A molecularly targeted agent at a predefined dose would be given in the short time period
between the diagnostic biopsy and definitive surgery. Drug
target modulation can be evaluated using pre- and posttreatment tumor biopsies, for example, altered levels of the
active (phosphorylated) form of a protein. Inclusion of
functional imaging studies can be considered as another
measure of drug effect, for example, changes in tumor
metabolism or vascularity and blood flow using serial PET
scans or dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE) MRI examinations respectively. In addition to pharmacodynamic data,
rigorous PK data collection is an essential part of Phase 0
clinical trial conduct. In June 2008, a special series of reports
on Phase 0 trials in oncology was published by the American
Association of Cancer Research (38), which highlights some
of the special issues associated with these trials.

Phase I Trials
Goal and Primary End Point of Phase I Trials
Except when Phase 0 trials are undertaken, Phase I trials
are the first clinical studies of a new agent or new therapeutic approach. Because of the toxic nature of many cancer therapies, Phase I trials are conducted in cancer patients
who have failed standard therapy, rather than in normal
volunteers. The major goal of Phase I trials is to determine
the recommended dose of the agent(s) under study in the
schedule administered (39). Secondary goals include description of toxic effects, PKs, determination of target inhibition
(if appropriate), and documentation of any antitumor effects
(i.e., response).
Using the data from the preclinical studies, a starting
dose and dose escalation scheme are selected and applied
to limited cohorts of patients until a predefined end point
is met. The traditional end point used in Phase I studies of
cytotoxic chemotherapy has been the maximum tolerated
dose (MTD) which is based on toxicity assessment using
standard criteria such as CTCAE v 3.0. Choice of this end
point is based on the existence of a relationship between
dose, efficacy, and toxicity seen in animal models, and to
from historical analysis of clinical studies, thus allowing
the use of toxicity as a surrogate of activity. Furthermore,
for many agents, particularly cytotoxic drugs, but not exclusively, the mechanism of normal tissue toxicity is the same
as that for the antitumor effects. The MTD is achieved
when a predefined proportion of patients at a specific dose
level develop serious toxicities (otherwise known as doselimiting toxicities or DLTs) beyond which further dose
escalation is not possible. The dose selected for further testing, the recommended Phase II dose (RPTD) is generally
one dose level below the MTD.

Patient Selection
As Phase I trials evaluate therapies of unknown efficacy and
potentially serious toxicity in patients with a life-threatening
disease, there has been much written on the ethical considerations and patient selection criteria for these studies (39).

Principles of Clinical Trials

63

In general, only those patients who have exhausted treatments that offer an improvement in survival or cure rates
should be enrolled. Furthermore, when the route of elimination and toxic effects in humans is unknown, patients
entering Phase I trials should have adequate hepatic, renal,
and hematologic function. The consent process should
clearly outline the goals of the trial and that both benefit
and toxicity are unknown. As dose levels approach the
recommended Phase II dose, it is common practice to
enroll “better risk” patients with characteristics more typical of those who might receive the drug in Phase II trials.
In this way, the recommended dose will be assessed in a
population similar to that in which it will be applied.

Phase I Trial Design
In broad terms, the design of a Phase I trial involves treating small cohorts of patients at ever-increasing doses of
the drug(s) until toxic effects, or another end point, stops
further escalation. Phase I trial design is guided by the
principles of efficiency and minimization of exposure of
participants to doses that are subtherapeutic or too toxic.
There is debate about whether doses should be increased
within individual patients: to do so may confuse acute
versus cumulative toxic effects, but some believe this caution is not warranted (40). Three elements determine the
duration of the trial and the total number of patients
enrolled (1): the starting dose (2), the escalation method
employed, and (3) the number of patients enrolled at each
dose level.
The starting dose is derived from preclinical toxicology of the most sensitive species (e.g., 1/10 the mouse
equivalent LD10 or 1/3 of the lowest nontoxic dose in the
most sensitive species if nonmurine).
Multiple dose escalation schemes have been proposed and can be classified as those that are “rule based”
and those that are “statistically based.” The most widely
used rule-based design from a historical perspective is the
modified Fibonacci escalation. Using this, after an initial
doubling of dose, each higher escalation steps has everdecreasing relative dose increments until a fixed dose ratio
is reached (e.g., dose increases of 100%, 65%, 50%, 40%,
and 30–35% thereafter). Dose escalation continues until the
MTD is reached, usually defined as the dose producing
DLT in 2 of 3 or 2–3 of 6 patients. The next lower dose
level is the recommended Phase II dose (RPTD).
Problems with the Fibonacci including its inefficiency
and treatment of too many patients at subtherapeutic levels (41) have given rise to a number of different escalation
approaches and suggestions for changing the number of
patients enrolled at low doses (42,43).
Novel rule-based designs, focus on doubling the dose
in successive patient cohorts until an “event” occurs which
switches the escalation to a more conservative (e.g., fixed
proportion) approach. The “event” may be the observation of a toxic effect (accelerated titration designs) or the
achievement of a PK end point (e.g., 40% of the predicted
AUC at the MTD, based on animal pharmacological studies) (44). Simulation techniques have shown that accelerated titration escalation is safe with the accrual of one
patient per dose level switching to conservative escalation
once DLT in one patient or Grade 2 toxicity in two patients
had been seen (40). Similarly, pharmacologically guided

64

Section I: General Principles

dose escalation has been successfully applied to some trials
but not others (45). Limitations of this latter method relate
to wide inter-patient variability in PK seen with some compounds, problems with measuring or detecting blood levels, and the fact that some compounds in man have active
metabolites not seen in animals.
The second approach to more efficient dose escalation has been statistically based. Examples include the Continual Reassessment Method (CRM) and modified CRM
(46,47), and Escalation with Overdose Control (EWOC)(48)
among others. These methodologies estimate MTD at the
outset of the trial and utilize toxicity data accumulated
throughout the study to refine the hypothetical dosetoxicity curve and update the MTD estimate. Dose levels,
which are often preassigned, may be adjusted on the basis
of the revised MTD estimates. The goals of these methodologies are to provide rapid, safe escalation to doses close
to, but not surpassing, the MTD and to give a more precise
estimate of the MTD at the end of the trial. Most practical experience has accumulated with the modified CRM
method, which in addition to the dose-escalation process
described above, usually involves enrollment of only one
patient per dose level in the early stages of the trial. This
method appears safe, treats more patients at or near the
MTD, and enrolls fewer patients overall (49). However, it
does not always shorten the duration of Phase I trials, likely
due to the waiting period between dose levels to observe
for drug related toxicity.
The enrollment of only one patient per dose level,
particularly at the lowest doses of a Phase I trial, has become
a frequent and apparently safe approach and is often
included in the novel escalation schemes mentioned above.
This approach could be problematic if wide inter-patient
variability in toxicity is expected (such as for antifolates)
when factors other than dose can contribute to the severity
of toxicity (50), or when end points other than toxicity are
used (e.g., pharmacodynamic measures), where more than
one patient per dose level is required to assess the end
point of interest appropriately.

level using this approach as the tissue sampling required
pre- and posttreatment may not be satisfactory in all
enrolled patients. If functional imaging methods are the
basis of assessment of target effect of drug, there are also
challenges in determining standard methods, interpretation,
and access to imaging technology. Finally, even if measurement of target effect is possible, observations on the toxic
effects of the drug must still be made and, should these be
severe, their observation immediately overrides any rules
for escalation based on target modulation.
Pharmacokinetic (PK) measures may also be used as
a primary end point for dose selection. The use of PK for
this purpose requires that there are robust preclinical data
linking PK measures with drug effect on target and efficacy, preferably in vivo. An example where this was used
was in the Phase I study of cetuximab, a chimeric antibody
directed against the epidermal growth factor receptor. In
the Phase I study, no MTD was defined, so a dose range
was recommended on the basis of PK data consistent with
serum antibody concentrations above 200 nmol/L. This concentration of drug was associated with optimal antitumor
activity in preclinical models (54). Subsequent studies demonstrated an inhibition of epidermal growth factor receptor
(EGFR) activity in a surrogate tissue (skin) in patients treated
with the optimal dose of cetuximab based on PKs (55).
Despite interest in assessing target modulation, in a
recent review of Phase I trial design for molecularly targeted agents, toxicity and to a lesser extent PK data were
the most frequently used end points to guide Phase II dose
recommendation (56). In part, this is because often toxicity
is mechanism based (and thus serves as a marker of drug
effect). Furthermore, selection of the highest tolerable dose
will minimize the chance of the dose being too low for
target modulation or inhibition.
However, regardless of the “primary” end point for
dose determination, the final dose recommendation very
often is the result of multiple inputs: toxicity, PK, and
when at all possible, proof of concept molecular studies.
Indeed this approach to Phase I design of molecular targeted agents was recently concluded to be a sensible one
to draw together all available data (57).

Nontoxicity End Points: Pharmcodynamic
and Pharmacokinetic End Points
Because many novel agents target intracellular or extracellular molecules that may be inhibited at doses below
those maximally tolerated, the use of toxicity as the primary end point in Phase I trials of these drugs has been
questioned (51,52). Furthermore, some evidence of proof
of concept that these drugs are affecting their putative
target is an important aspect of their early clinical development. Although toxicity may, in some cases, be mechanism
based [e.g., rash from epidermal growth factor receptor
(EGFR) inhibitors (53)], more direct evidence of target perturbation is often desired.
Although a direct assessment of target modulation is
an attractive primary end point from a theoretical point of
view, using this as the only guide for dose escalation decisions poses challenges. These include the availability of a
validated assay to assess target effect in tumor (or normal)
tissue as well as prior knowledge of the degree of modulation or inhibition of the target needed for dose selection
(when laboratory assay methods are used to assess target
effect). In addition, more patients will be required per dose

Phase II Trials
Goal and Primary End Point of Phase II Trials
Once the recommended dose and schedule for a new therapy is available, Phase II trials may begin. The primary goal
of these trials is to screen the new agent or regimen for
efficacy and to estimate the level of activity. Through this,
Phase II single agent trials may provide guidance regarding the future development strategy of the drug or combination. The traditional measure of drug efficacy has been
objective tumor regression defined by standard criteria
such as RECIST (2). Objective response is the only end
point for single agent Phase II trials that has reliably been
shown to identify agents that, in later studies, are shown
to improve survival. Although not all agents causing
responses increase survival, some do. Other end points that
used Phase II trials can include measures of tumor progression, tumor marker response [e.g., ovarian and prostate cancers (58–60)] feasibility, PKs, toxicity, and the early
exploration of the possible molecular predictors of effect
through appropriate biomarker studies.

Chapter 4:

When objective response is the primary end point,
the single agent Phase II trial of a new drug determines if
the experimental agent has a response rate above a targeted value deemed critical for pursuing the agent further.
The target response rate is often set at 20% but this may
vary depending on the tumor type and the patient population under evaluation. For example, a response rate of 15%
might be of interest in a tumor such as melanoma, but a
higher rate of 30% might be a more realistic target value
in untreated breast cancer, which is responsive to numerous agents. Of major importance in this type of trial is the
need to minimize the chance that a truly active agent is
erroneously rejected. That is, the trial design should attempt
to limit the probability of a false negative result (type II
error). False positive conclusions about the activity of a
new drug will be uncovered by its further evaluation following the initial Phase II trial. However, if a false negative
conclusion leads to the rejection of the new agent, there
may not be another trial conducted to provide the true
information.
Combination Phase II trials are similar in the sense
that they are designed to determine the activity of a combination regimen against a target level of activity. For example, a new multi-drug regimen in breast cancer might only
proceed into Phase III trials if in Phase II it produces
response rates superior to a prespecified target value determined based on standard combination therapy results.
However, other factors, primarily toxic effects, will be
important to the decision about the regimen’s future. Thus,
in this setting, not only efficacy, but also toxicity, is estimated and both parameters are important in the decision
to pursue the regimen further.

Patient Selection
Entry criteria for Phase II studies vary according to the agent
and tumor type under investigation. In general, patients
with measurable, advanced disease are eligible. Extensive
prior therapy, poor performance status, and high tumor
burden may impact negatively on response rates and such
patients may be excluded from these studies. The requirement for minimal or no prior therapy is somewhat controversial especially in tumor types where the disease is
treatable even in the advanced state. In such situations
(so-called window trials), patients may be entered onto
study as long as they are followed closely and offered
standard therapy upon patient request, at physician discretion, or once progression has been demonstrated. For Phase
II studies of molecularly targeted therapy, correlative studies using tumor or other surrogate tissue may be included
as part of study design. In these situations the eligibility
criteria must clearly state whether availability of tissue,
whether from previous diagnostic surgery or collected in
fresh biopsies, is a requirement for study entry.

Phase II Trial Design
As noted above, an important aspect of the design of Phase
II studies is the need to limit the risk of false negative
conclusions and to provide an adequate estimate of activity in positive studies. The other major consideration that
affects design is the desire to limit exposure of excessive
numbers of patients to truly ineffective treatment. These
competing requirements—to have enough patients to be

65

Principles of Clinical Trials

sure that the agent is truly inactive before it is rejected, but
not so many that excessive numbers of patients receive inactive therapy—have led to trial designs having two or more
sequential stages of accrual. Should insufficient activity be
seen after the first stage, the study will be terminated, only
continuing to the end of the second (or third) stage if sufficient numbers of responding patients are noted.
A number of such multistage designs have been
described, which utilize objective tumor response as the
primary end point (61–63). The sample size for a Phase II
trial depends on the specification of a number of parameters that differ according to the tumor type, patient population, and the drug under evaluation. These parameters
include target levels of activity and the two desired error
limits. The α error is a measure of the probability of accepting an inactive drug (false positive result) and the β error
a measure of the probability of rejecting a truly active drug
(false negative result). The multistage designs “reject” an
agent and stop the trial early if too few responses are seen
at the end of the first stage. The numbers of consecutive
nonresponding patients that must be enrolled to reject a
drug depends on the target response rate hypothesized to
be of interest. The lower the response rate of interest, the
greater the number of consecutive failures needed to conclude that the agent does not meet the hypothetical level
of activity. Alternatively, to decrease the risk of false negative conclusions (i.e., decrease the type II error or β) the
sample size in the first stage must be increased.
An example of a multistage design, the Gehan design
(61), focuses primarily on the elimination of drugs having
a level of activity less than a prespecified amount, often
20%, which in practice translates into accrual of 14 patients
and terminating the study if no responses are seen. This
number is based on the fact that the probability of observing 0/14 responses when the true response rate is 20% is
<0.05 [(1 – 0.20)(14) < 0.05]. If the agent passes the first
stage, more patients are entered according to the level of
presumed therapeutic effectiveness and the desired level
of error (β). In the example given of 14 patients in the
initial stage, the observation of one response will lead to
an expansion of 11 additional patients to obtain a power
of 90%, and an expansion of 45 additional patients to obtain
a 95% power. Table 4.2 shows examples of sample sizes
for Phase II trials using the Gehan design with varying
target response rates of interest and β errors.

Table 4.2 Sample Sizes for the Initial Cohort in Phase II Trials
Using the Gehan Design (61)
Target minimum
Response rate (%)
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50

Number of patients in first stage if
β = 0.05

β = 0.10

59
29
19
14
11
9
7
6
6
5

45
22
15
11
9
7
6
5
4
4

66

Section I: General Principles

Both the Fleming (62) and the Simon (63) designs
require that two “target” levels of activity be hypothesized:
a lower response rate (p0) below which there would be no
interest in pursuing the agent further, and a higher response
rate (p1) representing a level of activity of definite interest.
In the Fleming design, the trial is terminated at the end of
the first stage if extreme results are observed in either
direction: that is, if the evidence supports either the hypothesis that the agent’s activity is less than p0 or that the
regimen has definite activity above p1. It will only continue
to the second stage if neither of these conditions is met.
At the end of the second stage, recommendations to accept
or reject the drug for further investigation are again made
on the basis of the final observed number of responses.
Table 4.3 illustrates the Fleming design using as hypotheses
p1 of 20–40% and p0 of 5–20% in various combinations.
A problem with the Fleming design is that, when the
criteria for high activity are met, the trial will stop early,
but there is often a desire in clinicians to continue accrual
to broaden experience with the agent and obtain a better
estimates of activity. In an attempt to address this, Simon
(63) has published the “optimal two-stage early rejection
design.” This design continues enrolment when activity is
seen at the end of the first stage.
Other Phase II design options deserve comment. The
first is one in which examination of another end point
besides response is incorporated in a multivariate approach.
Zee and colleagues have examined the utility of considering both response and early progression in decisions about
early study termination (64,65). This approach presumes
that an agent with excessive rates of early progression will
not have a great deal to contribute, even if it produces
occasional responses. Both the number of early progressors
and responders are evaluated at the early stopping point
and the decision to continue accrual depends on the frequency of both end points.
Furthermore, “randomized Phase II trials” are being
seen more commonly (66). Usually the term randomized
is used in the context of large sample size, Phase III trials
adequately powered to make comparisons between treatment arms (see section “Phase III trials”). However, in the
Phase II setting, there are some circumstances when it may
be advantageous to randomize patients. The first instance
is when two or more investigational regimens are available
for study. Randomizing between regimens is a convenient
way to accrue similar patient populations to simultaneous
trials but there is no intent to compare outcomes as each
arm has their own stopping rules. The second type of
randomized Phase II trial has been dubbed a “pick the
winner” design. Patients are randomized to two or more
potentially active regimens and the design is focused on

Table 4.3
p0 (%)

5
10
20

selecting the one most likely to be superior by a prespecified amount. Scenarios where this may be logical are when
two doses or schedules of the same drug are pitted against
each other to derive data allowing the selection of the
“winning” regimen to go into further study against standard therapy. Such trials are not adequately powered to
determine the superior regimen, rather the statistical calculation allows for reasonable certainty that if one of the
regimens is truly more active by a prespecified degree (e.g.,
15% higher response rate), the probability is high that it
will be declared the winner and selected for further study.
This strategic approach has been used in trials comparing
various methods of administration of the cytotoxic agent
topotecan (67). Finally, randomized Phase II trials may
assign patients to either a standard versus an investigational
therapy and then evaluate an efficacy measure (response,
proportion progression-free at a fixed time point, progression free survival). This design may be used in a noncomparative manner where the activity level in the standard
arm will allow greater confidence in interpretation of the
results in the experimental arm, as it provides information
about the patient population entered on the study. Alternatively, such a design may be used with comparative
intent, having higher alpha levels than is usual in Phase
III trials. This is most frequently applied when nonresponse
end points are used (see below) (68,69).

Challenges in Phase II Trials
of Novel Noncytotoxics
Use of Response End Point. For molecularly targeted
agents that may inhibit growth as their primary mechanism of action (i.e., cytostatic rather than cytotoxic), from
a theoretical perspective, objective response may not provide a useful signal of drug activity. These agents will need
to prove their worth by prolonging survival, but short of
large randomized trials, are there other end points besides
response which may be used to screen these drugs for
promising evidence of efficacy in small patient samples?
A variety of alternative end points have been considered
for use in nonrandomized Phase II trials including change
in rate of rise of tumor marker levels, functional imaging,
measures of target inhibition and rates of stable disease or
its opposite, clinical progression rates, or a continuous
measure of tumor size (51,52,69,70). However, all of these
options remain infrequently used so it is difficult to assess
their utility in identifying truly active drugs (71). Furthermore, designs that rely on measures of progression (PFS
or proportion progression free) carry with them the bias
of patient selection, which hampers the interpretation of
results from single arm studies. Thus the use of randomized

Examples of Fleming Design (62) and Stopping Rules for Phase II Trials

p1 (%)

20
30
40

α

0.058
0.031
0.037

Power
(1 – β)

0.865
0.839
0.801

Number of patients

First stage

End of study

First
stage

Second
stage

Total

Reject drug
≤resp

Accept drug
≥resp

Reject drug
≤resp

Accept drug
≥resp

15
15
20

15
15
15

30
30
35

0
1
4

4
5
9

3
6
11

4
7
12

Chapter 4:

designs as noted earlier, or a randomized discontinuation
design have been suggested when progression end points
are believed to be most appropriate. The randomized discontinuation design randomizes patients archiving a minimum period of stable disease on a new agent to continue
or discontinue the drug and comparers the progressionfree survival following randomization (72). A challenge to
the use of this design relate to the potential large number
of patients treated in the inception cohort to acquire
sufficient numbers to randomize (68).
Some investigators have chosen to avoid the problem
of identifying the activity of noncytotoxics in Phase II
by moving them directly from Phase I to Phase III trials.
This approach may be justified when the preclinical data
are compelling and if early stopping rules are part of the
randomized study design. The most appropriate stopping
rule for this circumstance is one which would require early
evidence that the experimental arm is more active than
control (e.g., fewer patients progressing at a fixed time
point), rather than the more common stopping rule based
on extreme results (see section “Interim analysis stopping
boundaries and data safety monitoring boards”). This
design may also be referred to as a “seamless” Phase II–III
trial. Studies with designs of this nature are underway
and their efficiency and utility will be known in the next
5–10 years.
Incorporation of Biomarkers. The Phase II setting provides an opportunity to explore molecular targets and
strategies of patient enrichment (73). If prior knowledge of
a biomarker that may predict drug activity exists, then the
Phase II study may be enriched with patients with the
(presumed) predictive characteristic. As this is usually not
known prior to commencement of the Phase II study, a
more practical approach would be to use a standard Phase
II design and prioritize correlative studies as part of study
conduct. This would mandate the availability of an adequate tumor specimen (diagnostic or freshly sampled) as
an eligibility criterion for all patients who are entered on
the study. Prospective declaration of a predictive biomarker
to be tested in the study would allow one to focus on
a particular hypothesis and assay methodology. Another
strategy would be to characterize the molecular profiles of
tumor specimens from responders and nonresponders to a
particular therapy. Comparisons of the molecular profiles
of these groups might lead to a hypothesis of a predictive
biomarker that could be further evaluated in another Phase
II study or be incorporated as a stratification factor in a
Phase III trial.

Interpretation of Results of Phase II Trials
At the conclusion of a “positive” Phase II trial, the overall
response rate should be reported along with the appropriate 95% confidence intervals. RECIST guidelines advocate
that the denominator should include all eligible patients
regardless of their evaluability. Indeed, particularly in randomized Phase II designs, some would argue that an intent
to treat analysis is required which would include all patients,
not just those eligible. Modifications to the size of the
denominator can have a substantial effect on the estimates
of activity. Phase II reports should include details about
the population studied, especially with respect to those

Principles of Clinical Trials

67

characteristics known to affect response. Finally, as some
have shown, independent review of imaging to verify
responses will decrease response rates substantially (74).
Each of these elements will have an impact on the final
response rate and thus the enthusiasm with which results
are greeted.

Phase III Trials
Goal and End Point of Phase III Trials
Phase III clinical trials compare one or more experimental
therapies with the best standard therapy or competitive
therapies. When there is no effective standard therapy a
placebo treatment may be the comparator. End points for
a Phase III trial are selected to reflect comparative efficacy
among treatments and include time-to-event information,
tumor response, toxicity, quality of life, or other measures
of treatment effectiveness.

Patient Selection
As Phase III trials are often the basis for widespread use
of a new treatment approach, patients enrolled in the trial
should be representative of the patients for whom the treatment will be used in practice. The patient risk profile
should be such that the benefits are likely to outweigh the
risks for study participants. Enrollment of patients with an
exceptionally good prognosis may dilute the ability of the
trial to detect treatment differences as the event rate will be
lower than anticipated. Patients who might be at increased
risk to suffer toxic effects of treatment—for example, those
with compromised hematology, liver, renal, or cardiac
function—may be excluded from the trial. The eligibility
and ineligibility criteria should be clearly described to
identify the population to which the observed results might
apply.
Generally speaking, eligibility criteria for Phase III
trials that are inclusive and broad based are preferred,
enabling results to be extrapolated to a larger population,
and providing the opportunity to study treatment effects
across a variety of subpopulations. Recently, there has been
an emphasis on recruiting special populations—minority
races, female sex, and elderly—to clinical trials, so that
treatment effects can also be evaluated within these groups.
Although pediatric malignancies are very rare, a large
percentage of pediatric oncology patients are enrolled in
clinical trials. The opportunity for cure must be balanced
against the risk of long-term treatment sequelae for the
pediatric population.

Randomization, Stratification, Minimization,
and Blinding
One of the main objectives of a Phase III trial design is to
eliminate systematic biases that could influence the comparison of the treatments. Bias can arise in many different
ways, ranging from the selection process of the patients
to be assigned to the different treatments, to the lack of
proper follow-up, to the imbalance of the distribution of
prognostic factors or of treatment delivery among the arms.
One way to reduce bias is to make sure that a proper randomization procedure is used to generate comparable patient
groups (75). Randomization consists of the use of a chance

68

Section I: General Principles

mechanism to assign patients to the treatments, and it
ensures that each patient in a study has the same opportunity of being assigned to the therapies in the trial. It makes
the treatment groups “alike on the average” with respect
to all factors (known or unknown) that may affect the end
points of the trial. Neither the doctor nor the patient should
know in advance which of the treatments will be assigned.
Thus, randomization eliminates the possibility that the preferences of patients or clinicians will influence the constitution of the treatment groups. Simple randomization by
chance can result in an unbalanced number of treatments
being assigned. Random permuted block randomization assigns
patients to treatments within blocks so that after a specific
number of assignments have been made (e.g., after every
fourth or eighth treatment assignment) the number of
patients assigned to each treatment is the same. A balanced
assignment of patients to treatments is the most statistically
efficient use of a fixed number of randomized patients.
However, there might be advantages for an unbalanced randomization in which the allocation of patients to treatments
is unequal—such as making a trial more acceptable by
having a twofold chance of getting the experimental arm.
A strategy often used to further reduce potential bias
is a stratified randomization plan. Patient subgroups (called
strata) are defined with respect to a set of prognostic factors that may influence the outcome, and randomization is
carried out separately within each stratum to guarantee
balance among treatment groups. Stratification is helpful
especially in small trials, or in the early stages of larger
trials. A random permuted block design within strata can
assure prognostic factor balance across treatments within
strata. It is important, however, to avoid including too many
strata in the design, as this will reduce the trial’s efficiency.
A process known as minimization has also been used to
balance treatment groups with respect to prognostic factors
(76). To use minimization, the prognostic factors of the
patients in each treatment group are accounted for during
the accrual period of the study. As each new patient is
identified for enrollment, the sum of prognostic factors
corresponding to those of the new patient is calculated
for each treatment group. The patient is assigned to the
treatment which would minimize the difference between
prognostic factors in each treatment.
An additional safeguard against bias is the design of
a blinded trial, that is, one in which patients are not aware
of the treatment to which they have been assigned. Such
trials (when feasible) are termed single blinded. A double
blinded trial is one in which neither the patient nor the
physician know the treatment assignment. Blinded trials
require that the physical aspect of the treatments be the
same, and this is not always possible. Also, toxic effects
clearly associated with one or more of the treatments may
make blinding impossible. Blinding, however, is particularly valuable in trials for which the end point is subjective,
such as pain relief. Blinding is also useful to improve
compliance with treatment administration and to enhance
the chances that the frequency and intensity of follow-up
examinations are the same for both treatment groups. In
addition, accurate assessment of the true extent of additional
toxicity associated with treatment can only be assessed if
the trial is blinded. Placebo controlled trials use an inert
substance packaged to resemble the experimental drug in
place of the active treatment in order to blind the study.

The lack of proper follow up, as well as more general
issues of compliance, can seriously bias the conclusions
from a trial. These issues may include the unwillingness/
inability of a patient to fill out a form, the failure to follow
a patient for study end points, or the discontinuation of
the randomized treatment. All of these issues generate missing data, either in the usual sense (e.g., a missing form) or
in the general meaning of not being able to observe the
outcome that one is really interested in for each patient.
We will comment below on what is known as the “intentto-treat” approach to the analysis and the interpretation of
data arising from clinical trials.

Two by Two Factorial, Crossover,
and Equivalence (Noninferiority) Studies
Several specialized types of designs are available to improve
the efficiency of Phase III clinical trials. Two by two factorial
designs (77,78) use all randomized patients to investigate
two treatment interventions simultaneously within the same
trial. For example, to evaluate the effects of treatments A
and B, patients would be randomized to one of four groups:
treatment A, treatment B, both, or neither. The effect of
treatment A would be estimated by comparing all patients
who received treatment A with those who did not receive
treatment A, stratifying the analysis according to whether
or not treatment B was also received. Estimating the effect
of treatment B would be done in the same way. Two by
two factorial designs are most appropriate when there is
no preexisting knowledge suggesting a strong interaction
between the effects of the two test treatments. In contrast
to the three arm study (treatment A, treatment B, and
neither), the 2 × 2 design provides an estimate of the treatment interaction. Factorial designs are underutilized in
Phase III cancer clinical trials.
In crossover designs (79), each patient receives each
study treatment sequentially during different time periods.
Patients are randomized to receive either treatment A during the first period followed by treatment B during the
second period, or the reverse order of treatment administration. The comparison of treatment effects is conducted
within each patient and the results accumulated across all
patients. This type of design is useful if a distinct end point
can be measured within each time period to reflect the
treatment effect obtained in that period, or if it is possible
to administer two treatments and elicit a preference from
the patient. Crossover designs are very efficient because
each patient provides his or her own control and the interpatient variability of the response is reduced. However, a
period effect (difference in treatment response associated
with the period of evaluation) or a period-treatment interaction (different treatment response associated with the
period during which each treatment is received) will reduce
the efficiency of the design and complicate the interpretation of results. The pharmaceutical industry has favored
these designs on the basis of their efficiency, although the
FDA has discouraged them due to the potential for confounding. The designs discussed above should not be
confused with studies that allow patients who experience
progressive disease though receiving one treatment to
receive the alternative therapy at the time of progression.
These studies might be more acceptable to doctors and
patients because patients who fail their first treatment have

Chapter 4:

an opportunity to receive the second, but the crossover
portion of the protocol is not intended to provide a direct
comparison of treatments.
Another frequently used design is the equivalence (or
noninferiority) trial (80,81). In contrast to the usual superiority trial design which seeks to provide evidence against the
null hypothesis (to demonstrate superiority of one treatment over another), the equivalence trial seeks to “prove”
the null hypothesis by collecting evidence against the possibility that the experimental treatment is really worse than
the standard. Because a clinical trial can never fully guarantee that the two treatments are exactly equal, the goal is
to demonstrate that the new treatment is not likely to be
inferior to the old by an amount that is considered to be
medically unacceptable. These designs are useful if the new
treatment is less toxic, less costly, more convenient than
the old, and would be recommended on these grounds as
long as efficacy was not compromised too much. The sample sizes for equivalence trials are ordinarily larger than
for superiority trials, because the magnitude of treatment
inferiority that would be tolerable is usually very small. In
addition, the inferiority threshold stated in the study design
influences the hypothesis testing result; if someone disagrees with the choice of this threshold, the conclusions
of the study might be disputed. Thus, noninferiority trial
designs should be used sparingly, only when the therapeutic question cannot be addressed by a superiority design.

Sample Size Determination for Phase III Trials
All quantities evaluated on trial patients constitute estimates
of the corresponding characteristics of the patient population, and as such they are subject to variability. Patients
enrolled in a trial are only a (usually very small) portion
of the potential population of patients that one has in mind
when designing the study. If the same trial were to be
conducted twice (on two different samples of patients),
it would be very unlikely for the numerical values of any
measure used to quantify treatment effect (such as the proportion of patients still alive after 5 years) to be identical
for the two trials. The precision of an estimate defines how
close it is likely to be to the true (unknown) population
value, and depends on the sample size of the trial.
The sample size determination depends on several
factors: the end point of interest, the goal of the data

Principles of Clinical Trials

analysis, assumptions about the true variability of observations, specification of the magnitude of treatment differences
of interest, the size of acceptable statistical errors (Type I
and Type II), the availability of subjects in the eligible
population, and the cost of running the trial. For a timeto-event end point, the sample size is based on the number
of events observed at the time of analysis; additional
assumptions about the event rate, the accrual period and
the subsequent follow-up interval are thus required to
determine the number of patients to enroll. Occasionally
sample sizes are based on the number of patients needed
to obtain a 95% confidence interval for the difference
between two treatments, which is no wider than a specified
amount. Most often the sample size is determined such
that the final test of hypothesis will have a prespecified
power (1 – β). The power of a test is the probability that
the test will reject the null hypothesis if the true treatment
effect difference is bigger than a prespecified clinically
worthwhile amount (i.e., when a specific alternative
hypothesis is true). The power of 80% or better is commonly used. Specifying the alternative hypothesis for the
analysis of proportions involves making an assumption
about the event rate for the traditional treatment (usually
based on previous knowledge), and specifying the smallest
clinically relevant difference in event rate between such
therapy and the new treatment under investigation. Together
with the selected type I error of the test (traditionally 5%),
these quantities determine the minimum number of patients
that must be recruited in each arm. Table 4.4 shows the
required sample sizes per treatment group for a variety of
situations (82).
For survival analyses the determination of the sample size is computed similarly. A survival distribution can
be summarized by its median survival time, which is the
time point at which 50% of the patients are still alive.
Alternatively, the probability of survival at a given time
point (e.g., at 5 years) can be used. An assumption (again,
based on previous knowledge) must be made about the
median survival corresponding to the traditional therapy,
as well as the smallest clinically relevant difference in
median survival between the two treatments. The desired
power of the test and its type I error must also be provided.
On the basis of these quantities, the required number of
patients who might have an event of interest can be determined. A sufficient number of patients must be enrolled

Table 4.4 Number of Patients Per Treatment for a Comparative Trial Based on Proportions (Assuming
a Two-sided False-positive Rate of 5% and Equal Allocation of Patients to Each Treatment)
Magnitude of clinically important
differences between proportions
r1
10%
10%
10%
10%
40%
40%
40%
40%

vs.
vs.
vs.
vs.
vs.
vs.
vs.
vs.

Sensitivity or power

r2

0.5

0.7

0.8

0.9

15%
20%
30%
40%
45%
50%
60%
70%

375
117
40
22
791
210
58
27

579
176
58
31
1245
324
86
40

725
219
71
38
1573
407
107
48

957
286
92
48
2093
538
139
62

For more extensive tables see Ref. (82) (Table A.3).

69

70

Section I: General Principles

Table 4.5 Sample Size for a Survival End Point Illustrating the
Role of Accrual Period and Additional Follow-up Time. Number of
Patients Per Treatment to Detect an Improvement in Median Survival
from 12 to 18 Months (Level of Significance = 0.05; Power = 0.80)
Years of accrual

1
2
3

Years of additional follow-up
1

2

3

150
132
122

117
110
107

104
103
102

and followed for a long enough period of time to enable
the required number of events to be observed. Studies in
populations of patients at low risk of an event, therefore,
require enrollment of many more patients than studies in
high-risk populations. The anticipated event rate, the accrual
rate, the accrual period, and the follow-up period are specified to determine the total number of patients required.
Tables such as the one shown in Table 4.5 are then
available to illustrate the required sample size (83,84).

Interim Analysis Stopping Boundaries
and Data Safety Monitoring Boards
One of the recent advances in the statistical design of randomized clinical trials has been the development of procedures that facilitate interim analysis of study data without
increasing the risk of obtaining a false-positive result based
on multiple looks at the data. Flexible group sequential
methods are now available to allow early stopping of trials
if interim results indicate either a striking advantage for
one treatment over the other, or no difference at all (85–87).
Software is also available to design sequential stopping
boundaries (88). The characteristics of the sequential design
must be established prior to initiation of the trial and any
data analysis. If boundaries are altered to fit the observed
data, the protection against an inflated false-positive error
rate is violated.
Almost all Phase III clinical trials are currently conducted under the guidance of a Data Safety Monitoring
Board [also called Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) in the ICH GCP guidelines]. Principles defining
the composition, independence, and responsibilities of this
board have been described by the U.S. National Cancer
Institute (89) and Food and Drug Administration (90).
Essentially, interim results and safety monitoring data are
periodically presented to the Board (consisting of independent scientists and patient representatives), and the board
advises the study investigators on the continued viability
and ethical conduct of the trial. In this way, investigators
who are participating in the trial are not exposed to interim
study results that might bias their participation. The committee is charged with protecting the interests of patients
in the study (both current and future patients) and assuring
that the study continues to meet the highest ethical standards for clinical trial conduct. This includes taking into
consideration new information that might have become
available from other studies.

Biomarker Studies in Phase III Trials
Biomarker studies are increasingly incorporated into the
design and conduct of Phase III trials as a means of exploring the molecular basis of cancer behavior and response to
therapy. If sufficient criteria are met, biomarkers can be
classified as being prognostic or predictive (12).
The first step in determining the utility of a biomarker
may involve a retrospective analysis of the clinical database compiled in a Phase III study. Using available tumor/
tissue specimens collected on study, the presence or absence
of the molecular target of interest is determined and measured in a quantitative or qualitative fashion. Using an
appropriate assay and cut points for assay results, specimens
are classified as marker positive/negative or high/low.
Comparison of the outcome of all patients classified as
marker positive to the outcome of those designated marker
negative will yield an estimate of the prognostic value of
the marker. Comparison of the outcomes of patients with
known marker status when treated with/without a particular therapy will provide information regarding the predictive value of the marker for that therapy. Due to the
possibility that a biomarker is both prognostic and predictive, all subgroups as defined by patient and treatment
status are compared. The appropriate statistical methodology is required for these types of subgroup analyses (see
section “Subgroup analysis”).
This strategy was utilized in a study examining the
relationship between molecular changes in a DNA repair
gene (biomarker) and response to therapy and outcome in
patients with a type of brain tumor (glioblastoma) who
were previously enrolled in a Phase III study comparing
radiotherapy with or without the addition of an oral chemotherapy agent known as temozolomide. The Phase III
study demonstrated a statistically and clinically significant
survival advantage with the use of combined therapy compared to radiotherapy alone (91). Retrospective analysis
of patients with tumor biopsy specimens assessable for
this genetic alteration showed that the presence of the
biomarker was independently associated with prognosis
and appeared to predict a greater benefit from combined
radiotherapy and temozolomide compared to radiotherapy
alone. The latter result was not statistically significant in a
multivariate analysis, most likely due to the lack of power
to test for interactions in the subgroup analyses (92). This
example demonstrates the exploratory nature of retrospective analyses and the challenges associated with such analyses. In addition to power issues, patient selection bias
may also influence results as patient and disease characteristics in the group for whom tumor samples are available may be different than those for whom samples could
not be retrieved.
A more rigorous approach to retrospective validation
of a biomarker in the context of a Phase III randomized
study involves collection of tumor samples in sufficient
numbers of patients in each treatment arm and knowledge
of the assay techniques and algorithms which will be used
for the analyses. The biological hypotheses of interest and
the sample sizes needed to test these hypotheses must be
declared prospectively. This approach was used to test a
multigene assay as a prognostic biomarker in tamoxifentreated, node negative breast cancer (93) and in general,
may be considered when there are ethical and logistical
constraints to launching a prospective randomized Phase

Chapter 4:

III study to test the clinical utility of a biomarker. Special
mention is needed regarding the concepts of training and
test sets. A training set comprises data from which the
prognostic or predictive biomarker is derived. The test set
refers to another set of data required to validate the biomarker role previously identified. Independence of both
data sets minimizes the chance of reaching the wrong conclusion regarding the importance of the biomarker and is
an important aspect of these types of analyses.
Incorporation of biomarkers into Phase III clinical
trial design can also be done in a prospective fashion. A
biomarker may be used as an eligibility criterion, thus
enriching the patient population for study of a new agent
of combination of agents. This type of design was used
to investigate the efficacy of trastuzumab in early and
advanced breast cancer (30,94,95). Trastuzumab is an antibody directed against the extracellular domain of the HER2
receptor. This receptor is overexpressed in approximately
20% of patients with breast cancer and is associated with
a poor prognosis (96–98). Only patients with HER2 positive
disease were eligible for inclusion in the pivotal Phase III
studies. The strategy of limiting recruitment to those patients
with a biomarker of interest may result in a smaller sample
size needed to detect important treatment effects of a specific therapy and may also prevent premature declaration
of failure for those agents with modest but clinically
important efficacy in selected populations (but no detectable efficacy in unselected populations). Disadvantages to
this strategy include the need for in-depth understanding
of the drug mechanism of action and the availability of
an accurate and reproducible assay prior to study commencement. Finally, the exclusion of patients without the
biomarker of interest may lead to an incomplete understanding of drug effects and the potential patient population who might benefit from a particular therapy.
Prospective clinical trial designs for predictive marker
validation have been described by Sargent et al. and can be
classified as indirect or direct assessments (12). All require
biomarker status determination prior to randomization. In
the indirect assessment strategy, the patient population is
split into marker positive and negative groups followed by
randomization to the standard and experimental therapies
in both groups. The statistical methods for analysis vary for
this type of study and include a test for interaction between
marker status and treatment or a formal comparison
between the treatment effects in each marker group.
In the direct assessment design, the randomization is
between use of the marker to determine therapy versus
determination of therapy independent of marker status.
The primary outcome comparison is between the group
of patients in the marker-based arm versus the group of
patients in the nonmarker-based arm.
An example of the indirect assessment clinical trial
design is found in a North American Intergroup lung cancer protocol (N0723). This planned study will evaluate the
prognostic and predictive role of EGFR status as defined
by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis. In
this study, EGFR status will be determined in all patients.
Those with EGFR positive tumors will be randomized
to receive EGFR targeted therapy with a small molecule
tyrosine kinase inhibitor versus treatment with pemetrexed
chemotherapy. Those with marker negative disease will be
randomly allocated to receive the same agents. Thus this

Principles of Clinical Trials

71

design will utilize an indirect marker assessment strategy
to determine the clinical utility of EGFR status.
A variation on the prospective marker validation
designs described above is utilized in the MINDACT trial
(EORTC 10041/BIG 03/04). This trial seeks to determine
the clinical utility of a genomic-based score for risk stratification and treatment allocation in 6000 patients with node
negative breast cancer (99). Previous data had demonstrated
that the genomic biomarker profile outperformed several
clinical methods of risk assessment commonly used in clinical practice such as the Nottingham Prognostic Index, the
St. Gallen criteria, and the Adjuvant! Software (100). In the
MINDACT study, patients will have their risk of disease
recurrence estimated by the genomic signature as well as
by histopathological features using the Adjuvant! online
program. Those patients with high-risk disease according
to both methods will be treated with chemotherapy; lowrisk disease will be treated with endocrine therapy. Those
patients with discordant results will undergo randomization to use of either the genomic score or clinicopathologic
features to guide therapeutic decisions. Using this design,
The MINDACT trial is the first to evaluate prospectively
the value of a microarray-based prognostic marker and to
test the feasibility of its clinical application.

Challenges for the Future
The links between clinical trials research and bench sciences should continue to be strengthened. Randomized
clinical trials should be conducted with the prospective
creation of a pathology tissue bank and imbedding of
translational biological questions whenever possible to be
used to evaluate current and future markers that might
predict treatment outcomes. Not only is it important to
determine whether or not a treatment is effective, it is also
important to determine those patients for whom the magnitude of the effect might be largest. Biological correlates
of treatment effectiveness are likely to be extremely important for tailoring treatments for specific patient populations
in the future.

Phase IV Trials
The term “Phase IV clinical trial” usually refers to a clinical
trial designed to monitor a new drug after it has been
approved to be marketed. The goals of the monitoring usually relate to adverse effects as well as additional large-scale,
long-term studies of morbidity and mortality. Another goal
of these trials is the identification of subsets of patients for
whom the drug performs particularly well. This can be
very important for marketing purposes, as well as for further developments of the drug. For example, the results of
these trials may form the basis for a label change.

INTERPRETING THE RESULTS OF TRIALS
Guidelines for reporting clinical trials are designed to assure
the reader of the quality of the study and to improve the
accurate interpretation of the results (101). A consensus has
been published on the consolidation of standards for reporting trials (CONSORT statement) (102,103). These guidelines
are used by many medical journals.

72

Section I: General Principles

Intention-to-Treat Analysis
Randomization in Phase III trials is intended to reduce
systematic bias that could confound treatment comparisons. Excluding patients from data analysis can, however,
defeat the purpose of randomization and introduce bias.
For example, in a trial comparing chemotherapy versus no
chemotherapy, excluding patients who do not complete
chemotherapy could leave only the “healthiest” patients in
the chemotherapy group, although all patients would be
included in the no-chemotherapy group. Even if the trial
were randomized, it is clear that those patients who remain
after the exclusion are not comparable between the two
groups. The intention-to-treat principle calls for including all
patients in the primary data analysis according to their
randomized treatment. The intention to use chemotherapy
is compared against the intention not to use chemotherapy.
Although the treatment effect estimated from the trial
could be diluted by including noncompliant patients, the
potential for bias introduced by patient exclusion is a
greater concern. Intention-to-treat analysis has, therefore,
become standard for the primary evaluation in comparative clinical trials.

Interpreting the p Value and the Role
of Confidence Intervals
The interpretation of p values is often a source of confusion.
The p value resulting from a statistical test of hypothesis
is not the probability that the two treatments are equivalent
(or different), but rather a measure of the strength of the
evidence against the null hypothesis. The distinction between
statistical and clinical significance should also be clear: p
values have nothing to do with the quantification of treatment effect, which is measured by the difference in response
rates, or in median survival between the treatment arms.
To illustrate this point consider two clinical trials, each
designed to compare the effect of two treatments, and suppose that the results of the two trials are summarized in
the table below.
Observed response (%)

Trial 1
Trial 2

Rate for arm A

Rate for arm B

20
20

30
30

p Value

0.3
0.03

The conclusion that the two treatments compared in
the first trial do not differ in effect, although the two treatments compared in the second trial do differ, is wrong. In
fact, the large p value in the first trial is because of the fact
that the trial was not powerful enough to detect the difference in response rate, that is, its sample size was probably too small. The point estimates and 95% confidence
intervals for the difference in response rates provide a
more informative summary of the estimated magnitude of
the treatment effect difference. These estimates for arm B
versus arm A are +10% (−10% to +30%) for trial 1 and
+10% (+3% to +17%) for trial 2. In both studies, the
observed response for treatment B is 10% higher than for
treatment A, but the 95% confidence interval for the difference includes 0% in trial 1 (hence the p value is greater

than 0.05) but does not include 0% in trial 2 (hence the p
value is less than 0.05). The confidence interval provides a
range of plausible values for the difference in response rate
based on the observed data.
In Phase III cancer clinical trials the treatment effects
realistically sought after can be quite small. However, even
moderate benefits can be of real clinical importance because
of the large number of patients that a change in therapy
might potentially affect. The detection of a small clinically
relevant difference in response can require quite large
sample sizes.

Subgroup Analysis
Given the resources and effort required to conduct a clinical trial, it is current practice in most reported clinical trial
analyses to not only estimate overall treatment effects, but
also to estimate treatment effects and test hypotheses
within different subsets of patients. The use of such subset
analyses, however, is quite controversial, and it is one of
the more troublesome aspects of clinical trial analysis and
interpretation (104).
The statistical concerns include the issue of inflating
the “alpha levels” as a result of repeated testing, that is,
the possibility that significant results will emerge by chance
alone when one examines multiple subgroups of patients.
Evaluating treatment effects separately for multiple patient
subgroups increases the risk of obtaining spurious positive results. Furthermore, if the overall result is statistically significant, there is a high probability that randomly
selected subgroups of patients will produce strikingly different outcomes just by chance alone. For example, if the
overall observed size of the treatment effect is two standard
deviations, there is a one in three chance that one randomly selected subset of half of the patients will produce
an observed effect of three standard deviations (highly
statistically significant) whereas the other half will produce
an observed effect of only one standard deviation (not at
all statistically significant) (105).
Another major concern is the lack of statistical power
to detect treatment effects within smaller subgroups of
patients, producing false negative results. Most clinical trials
are designed to have enough power to evaluate the treatment effect only for the whole study population. Results
from subset analyses, therefore, should always be presented
and interpreted with caution.
Subgroup analyses should be prespecified in the
original study protocol, so that they can be considered “a
priori” analyses as opposed to “post hoc” (or data-derived)
analyses. This, however, may not always be possible, as new
scientific knowledge derived from other trials may become
available during the conduct of the study. The statistical
plan can be amended, but only before the data analysis is
performed. Prespecifying the subgroup analyses to be performed can reduce the temptation to over-analyze the data
in search for statistical significance. Subgroups should only
be defined according to pretreatment characteristics and not,
for example, on compliance or outcome variables.
In subgroup analyses treatment effects are usually
computed within groups of patients defined with respect to
the value of a covariate of interest to explore the possible
interaction of the magnitude of treatment effect and that
covariate. A recently developed method is the Subpopulation

Chapter 4:

Treatment Effect Pattern Plot (STEPP), which is a display
of treatment effects computed within overlapping subpopulations of trial patients defined with respect to a variable
of interest (106–108). By displaying the pattern of treatment
effect differences along a continuum of values for a covariate (e.g., age, or quantitative assessment of estrogen receptor), STEPP illustrates whether the magnitude of treatment
benefit differs according to values of the covariate. This
avoids the problems of either selecting one or more cut
points to categorize the covariate, or relying on parametric
models that imply a specific relationship.
Subgroup analyses are frequently performed and
reported in the clinical literature because they assist physicians in using study results in their clinical practice, by
allowing the assessment of treatment effects within “relevant” patient subpopulations. Identifying the best possible
treatment for the individual patient involves estimating the
therapeutic effect for that patient, so that treatment benefit
is maximized and the potential unnecessary side effects are
minimized from unnecessary treatment reduced to a minimum. Subgroup analyses also can more generally help
raise questions for further research. Despite the challenges
associated with performing and reporting subgroup analyses (104), “when subgroup analyses are properly conducted, presentation of their results can be informative,
avoiding any presentation of subgroup analyses because of
their history of being over interpreted is a steep price to
pay for a problem that can be remedied by more responsible analysis and reporting.”(109)

Meta-analysis
Meta-analysis is an analysis of the combined results of
several separate studies to increase the statistical power for
detecting treatment effects (110). Unfortunately, the magnitude of treatment effects (especially improvement in overall survival) obtained from many currently available cancer
therapies is relatively small, and only large trials are likely
to achieve statistical significance. For example, it requires
over 3000 patients to be followed for an average of 5 years
to obtain an 80% power to achieve statistical significance
if the true treatment effect is an increase in 5-year overall
survival from 50% to 55%. The lack of statistical significance in undersized studies builds the impression that the
treatment is ineffective. Controversy arises when a few trials achieve statistical significance while several other trials
do not. A properly conducted meta-analysis can identify
whether modest, but real, treatment effects exist.
A meta-analysis proceeds in four steps. First, the
research question is defined. For example, what is the
evidence that adjuvant tamoxifen improves survival for
patients with operable breast cancer? Second, a literature
review is conducted and investigators in the field are contacted to identify all relevant studies. Because there is a
higher likelihood for positive studies to be published, relying only on published reports can result in publication
bias (111). Third, the appropriate studies are identified and
the data obtained. Such data can be summary measures
from published reports or individual patient data (IPD) from
the study investigators. The IPD approach is preferred
because unpublished studies can be included, data quality
control checks can be performed, and greater flexibility in
the analysis can be achieved. Fourth, the statistical analysis

Principles of Clinical Trials

73

to combine the separate studies is carried out, and the
results are interpreted.
The term “overview” has been suggested to describe
a specific type of meta-analysis conducted using strict
guidelines to reduce systematic bias. Overviews are based
exclusively on properly randomized clinical trials. All available randomized trials (both published and unpublished)
that investigate the therapeutic question of interest are
included. All patients are evaluated according to their randomized treatment assignment (intention-to-treat analysis).
Estimates of treatment effects based on comparing like
patients within each individual study are obtained, and then
statistical methods are used to combine these separate
treatment effect estimates into an overview result (112).
Meta-analyses, despite the substantial increase in statistical power, cannot answer all questions concerning the
worth of a given treatment. In particular, the overall estimates of the magnitude of treatment effect obtained from
the entire cohort of patients may be misleading. The magnitudes of treatment effects estimated in the overview are
based on an “arithmetic construction” that ignores quantitative interactions between the treatment effect and patient
characteristics or concomitant therapies (113,114). In addition, “indirect comparisons” of treatment effects obtained
from different trials are influenced by the characteristics of
these trials. For example, comparing the magnitude of the
tamoxifen effect obtained from trials that used 5 years of
treatment versus that obtained from trials that used 1 year
of treatment is not as valid as a direct randomized comparison of 5 versus 1 year of tamoxifen.
Meta-analysis of cancer clinical trials is a very powerful procedure that stimulates international collaboration,
helps to resolve controversies that arise from apparently
contradictory results of undersized trials, and focuses attention on major unanswered questions. Nevertheless, wellconducted, large-scale randomized clinical trials continue
to be the basis for evaluating the worth of new therapies
and regimens for cancer patients.

Can Clinical Trials Be the Treatment of Choice
for Patients with Cancer?
The fact that a relatively small percentage of oncology
patients participate in randomized clinical trials has substantially slowed progress in improving the use of current
therapies and developing new treatment approaches.
Several studies have explored reasons for this low participation (115–117). Although moderate improvements in
outcome for common diseases can save many lives, individual trials often do not enroll enough patients to provide
reliable evidence to detect these effects. Efforts must be
made to make participation in clinical trials more widely
acceptable. Patient advocacy groups are recognizing the
important role played by a vibrant cancer clinical research
effort. More progress can be made only if clinical trials
become the treatment of choice for many more patients
with cancer (118).

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank Marco Bonetti for his work on the first edition
of this chapter and Shari Gelber for her contributions to
editing the current edition.

74

Section I: General Principles

REFERENCES
1. Miller AB, Hoogstraten B, Staquet M et al. Reporting results
of cancer treatment. Cancer 1981; 47: 207–14.
2. Therasse P, Arbuck SG, Eisenhauer EA et al. New guidelines to evaluate the response to treatment in solid tumors
(RECIST Guidelines). J Natl Cancer Inst 2000; 92: 205–16.
3. Cheson BD, Pfistner B, Juweid ME et al. Revised response
criteria for malignant lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25:
579–86.
4. Agrawal M, Emaneul EJ. Ethics of phase I oncology studies: reexamining the arguments and data. JAMA 2003; 290:
1075–82.
5. Hellman S, Hellman D. Of mice but not men, problems
of the randomized clinical trial. N Engl J Med 1991; 324:
1585–9.
6. Passamani E. Clinical trials, are they ethical? N Engl J Med
1991; 324: 1589–92.
7. McFadden E. Management of Data in Clinical Trials,
2nd edn. New York: John Wiley & Sons, 2007.
8. International Breast Cancer Study Group. Effectiveness of
adjuvant chemotherapy in combination with tamoxifen for
node-positive postmenopausal breast cancer patients. J Clin
Oncol 1997; 15: 1385–93.
9. Tonkin K, Tritchler D, Tannock I. Criteria of tumor response
used in clinical trials of chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol 1985;
3: 870–5.
10. Baar J, Tannock I. Analyzing the same data in two ways: a
demonstration model to illustrate the reporting and misreporting of clinical trials. J Clin Oncol 1989; 7: 969–78.
11. Biomarkers Definitions Working Group. Biomarkers and
surrogate endpoints: Preferred definitions and conceptual
framework. Clin Pharmacol Ther 2001; 69: 89–95.
12. Sargent DJ, Conley BA, Allegra C et al. Clinical trial designs
for predictive marker validation in cancer treatment trials.
J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 2020–7.
13. Cummings J, Ward TH, Greystoke A et al. Biomarker
method validation in anticancer drug development. Br J
Pharmacol 2008; 153: 646–56.
14. Shaughnessy JA, Wittes RE, Burke G et al. Commentary
concerning demonstration of safety and efficacy of investigational anticancer agents in clinical trials. J Clin Oncol 1991;
9: 2225–32.
15. Bren L. The importance of patient-reported outcomes: it’s
all about the patient. FDA Consumer Magazine, November–
December, 2006.
16. FDA Draft Guidance: Patient-Reported Outcome Measures:
Use in Medical Product Development to Support Labeling
Claims. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Food
and Drug Administration, February 2006. www.fda.gov/
CDER/GUIDANCE/5460dft.pdf [Accessed 19 August 2008].
17. Bernhard J, Gelber RD (guest editors). Workshop on missing
data in quality of life research in cancer clinical trials: practical and methodological issues. Stat Med 1998; 17: 511–793.
18. Goldhirsch A, Gelber RD, Simes RJ et al. For the Ludwig
Breast Cancer Study Group, Costs and benefits of adjuvant
therapy in breast cancer: a quality-adjusted survival analysis. J Clin Oncol 1989; 7: 36–44.
19. Gelber RD, Cole BF, Gelber S et al. The Q-TWiST method.
In: Spilker B, ed. Quality of Life and Pharmacoeconomics
in Clinical Trials, 2nd edn. Philadelphia: Lippincott-Raven,
1996: 437–44.
20. Kilbridge KL, Cole BF, Kirkwood JM et al. Quality of life
adjusted survival analysis of high-dose adjuvant interferon
alpha-2b for high-risk melanoma patients using intergroup
clinical trial data. J Clin Oncol 2002; 20: 1311–18.
21. Fairclough DL, Fetting JH, Cella D et al. Quality of life and
quality adjusted survival for breast cancer patients receiving
adjuvant therapy. Qual Life Res 1999; 8: 723–31.

22. Cole BF, Gelber RD, Gelber S et al. Polychemotherapy for
early breast cancer: an overview of the randomized trials
with quality-adjusted survival. Lancet 2001; 358: 277–86.
23. Cole BF, Gelber RD, Kirkwood JM et al. Quality-of-lifeadjusted survival analysis of interferon alfa-2b adjuvant
treatment of high-risk resected cutaneous melanoma: an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group study. J Clin Oncol 1996;
14: 2666–73.
24. Parsons SK, Gelber S, Cole BF et al. Quality-adjusted survival after treatment for acute myeloid leukemia in childhood: a Q-TWiST analysis of the Pediatric Oncology Group
Study 8821. J Clin Oncol 1999; 17: 2144–52.
25. Cole BF, Gelber RD, Gelber S et al. A quality-adjusted
survival (Q-TWiST) model for evaluating treatments for
advanced stage cancer. J Biopharm Stat 2004; 14: 111–24.
26. Neymark N, Kiebert W, Torfs K et al. Methodological and
statistical issues of quality of life (QOL) and economic evaluation in cancer clinical trials: report of a workshop. Eur J
Cancer 1998; 34: 1317–33.
27. Gold M, Russel L, Siegel J et al. Cost-effectiveness in Health
and Medicine. New York: Oxford University Press, 1996.
28. Shis Y-C, Halpern MT. Economic evaluations of medical care
interventions for cancer patients: how, why, and what does
it mean? CA Cancer J Clin 2008; 58: 231–44.
29. Kaplan EL, Meier P. Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations. J Am Stat Assoc 1958; 53: 457–81.
30. Piccart-Gebhart MJ, Procter M, Leyland-Jones B et al.
Trastuzumab after adjuvant chemotherapy in HER2-positive
breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2005; 353: 1659–72.
31. Cox DR. The Analysis of Binary Data. London: Methuen
Press, 1972.
32. Cox DR. Regression models and life-tables (with discussion).
J R Stat Soc Series B Stat Methodol 1972; 34: 187–220.
33. Johnson JR, Williams G, Pazdur R. End points and United
States Food and Drug Administration approval of oncology
drugs. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 1404–11.
34. Guidance for Industry, Investigators and Reviewers,
Exploratory IND Studies. http://www.fda.gov/CDER/
guidance/7086fnl.htm [Accessed July 2008].
35. Gelmon K, Eisenhauer EA, Harris AL et al. Anticancer
agents targeting signaling molecules and cancer cell environment: Challenges for drug development? J Natl Cancer
Inst 1999; 91: 1281–7.
36. Lee JW, Weiner RS, Sailstad JM et al. Method validation and
measurement of biomarkers in nonclinical and clinical samples in drug development: a conference report. Pharm Res
2005; 22: 499–511.
37. Kummar S, Kinders R, Rubinstein L et al. Compressing drug
development timelines in oncology using phase “0” trials.
Nature Rev Cancer 2007; 7: 131–9.
38. See articles in CCR Focus (series). Clin Cancer Res 2008; 14:
3657–97.
39. ASCO Special Article, Critical role of phase I clinical trials
in cancer treatment. J Clin Oncol 1997; 15: 853–9.
40. Simon R, Freidlin B, Rubinstein L et al. Accelerated titration
designs for phase I clinical trials in oncology. J Natl Cancer
Inst 1997; 89: 1138–47.
41. Von Hoff DD, Turner J. Response rates, duration of response
and dose response effects in phase I studies of antineoplastics. Invest New Drugs 1991; 9: 115–22.
42. Arbuck SG. Workshop on phase I design. Ninth NCI-EORTC
New Drug Development Symposium, Amsterdam, March
12, 1996. Ann Oncol 1996; 7: 567–73.
43. Eisenhauer EA, O’Dwyer PJ, Christian M et al. Phase I
clinical trial design in cancer drug development. J Clin
Oncol 2000; 18: 684–92.
44. Collins JM, Grieshaber BA. Pharmacologically guided phase
I trials based upon preclinical development. J Natl Cancer
Inst 1990; 82: 1321–6.

Chapter 4:
45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

59.

60.

61.

Graham MA, Kaye SB. New approaches in preclinical and
clinical pharmacokinetics. In: Workman P, Graham MA, eds.
Cancer Surveys, Volume 17: Pharmacokinetics and Cancer
Chemotherapy. New York: Cold Spring Harbor, 1993:
27–49.
O’Quigley J, Pepe M, Fisher L. Continual reassessment
method: a practical design for phase I clinical trials in cancer. Biometrics 1990; 46: 33–48.
Goodman SN, Zahurak ML, Piantadosi S. Some practical
improvements in the continual reassessment method for
phase I studies. Stat Med 1995; 14: 1149–61.
Babb J, Rogatko A, Zacks S. Cancer phase I trials: efficient
dose escalation with overdose control. Stat Med 1998; 17:
1103–20.
Siu LL, Rowinsky EK, Clark GM et al. Dose escalation using
the modified continuous reassessment method (MCRM) in
phase I clinical trials: a review of the San Antonio experience
(abstract). Ann Oncol 1998; 9(Suppl 2): 127.
Seymour L, Eisenhauer E. A review of dose-limiting events
in phase I trials: antimetabolites show unpredictable relationships between dose and toxicity. Cancer Chemother
Pharmacol 2001; 47: 2–10.
Eisenhauer EA. Phase I and II trials of novel anticancer
agents: endpoints, efficacy and existentialism. The Michel
Clavel lecture. Ann Oncol 1998; 9: 1047–52.
Eckhardt SG, Eisenhauer E, Parulekar WR et al. Developmental therapeutics: Successes and failures of clinical trial
designs of targeted compounds. In: Perry MC, ed. American
Society of Clinical Oncology Educational Book. American
Society of Clinical Oncology, 2003: 209–19.
Baselga J, Rischin D, Ranson M et al. Phase I safety, pharmacokinetic, and pharmacodynamic trial of ZD1839, a selective oral epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase
inhibitor, in patients with five selected solid tumor types.
J Clin Oncol 2002; 20(21): 4292–302.
Baselga J, Pfister D, Cooper MR et al. Phase I studies of
anti-epidermal growth factor receptor chimeric antibody
C225 alone and in combination with cisplatin. J Clin Oncol
2000; 18: 904–14.
Albanell J, Codony-Servat J, Rojo F et al. Activated extracellular signal-regulated kinases: association with epidermal
growth factor receptor/transforming growth factor expression in head and neck squamous carcinoma and inhibition
by anti-epidermal growth factor receptor treatments. Cancer
Res 2001; 61: 6500–10.
Parulekar WR, Eisenhauer EA. Phase I trial design for solid
tumor studies of targeted, non-cytotoxic agents: Theory and
practice. J Natl Cancer Inst 2004; 96: 990–7.
Booth CM, Calvert AH, Giaccone G et al. Endpoints and
other considerations in phase I studies of targeted anticancer
therapy: recommendations from the task force on Methodology for the Development of Innovative Cancer Therapies
(MDICT). Eur J Cancer 2008; 44: 19–24.
Bubley GJ, Carducci M, Dahut W et al. Eligibility and
response guidelines for phase II clinical trials in androgenindependent prostate cancer: recommendations from the
prostate-specific antigen working group. J Clin Oncol 1999;
17: 3461–7.
Scher HI, Halabi S, Tannock I et al. Design and end points
of clinical trials for patients with progressive prostate cancer
and castrate levels of testosterone: recommendations of the
prostate cancer clinical trials working group. J Clin Oncol
2008; 26: 1148–59.
Rustin GJ, Quinn M, Thigpen T et al. Re: New guidelines
to evaluate the response to treatment in solid tumors (ovarian
cancer). J Natl Cancer Inst 2004; 96: 487–8.
Gehan EA. The determination of the number of patients
required in a preliminary and a follow-up trial of a new
chemotherapeutic agent. J Chronic Dis 1961; 13: 346–53.

62.
63.
64.

65.

66.
67.

68.

69.

70.

71.

72.

73.

74.

75.
76.

77.
78.

79.
80.
81.

82.
83.

84.

Principles of Clinical Trials

75

Fleming TR. One-sample multiple testing procedure for
phase II clinical trials. Biometrics 1982; 38: 143–51.
Simon R. Optimal two-stage designs for phase II clinical
trials. Control Clin Trials 1989; 10: 1–10.
Zee B, Melnychuk D, Dancey J et al. Multinomial phase II
cancer trials incorporating response and early progression.
J Biopharm Stat 1999; 9: 351–63.
Dent S, Zee B, Dancey J et al. Application of a new multinomial phase II stopping rule using response and early
progression. J Clin Oncol 2001; 19: 785–91.
Simon R, Wittes RE, Ellenberg SS. Randomized phase II
clinical trials. Cancer Treat Rep 1985; 69: 1375–85.
Hoskins P, Eisenhauer E, Beare S et al. A randomized phase
II study of two schedules of topotecan in previously treated
patients with ovarian cancer. J Clin Oncol 1998; 16: 2233–7.
Gray R, Manola J, Saxman S et al. Phase II clinical trial
design: methods in translational research from the Genitourinary Committee at the Eastern Cooperative Oncology
Group. Clin Cancer Res 2006; 12: 1966–9.
Korn EL, Arbuck SG, Pluda JM et al. Clinical trial designs
for cytostatic agents: are new approaches needed? J Clin
Oncol 2001; 19: 265–72.
Karrison TG , Maitland ML, Stadler WM et al. Design of
phase II cancer trials using a continuous endpoint of change
in tumor size: application to a study of sorafenib and erlotinib in non–small-cell lung cancer. J Natl Cancer Inst 2007;
99: 1455–61.
El-Maraghi R, Eisenhauer EA. Review of phase II trial
designs used in studies of molecular targeted agents: outcomes and predictors of success in phase III. J Clin Oncol
2008; 26: 1346–54.
Kopec JA, Abrahamowicz M, Esdaile JM. Randomized discontinuation trials: utility and efficiency. J Clin Epidemiol
1993; 46: 959–71.
Simon R. Re-examination of the design of early clinical
development trials for molecularly targeted drugs. In: Perry
MC, ed. American Society of Clinical Oncology Educational
Book. American Society of Clinical Oncology, 2006: 126–9.
Gwyther SJ, Gore ME, ten Bokkel Huinink W et al. Results
of independent radiological review of over 400 patients with
advanced ovarian cancer treated with topotecan (Hycamtin)
(Abstract). Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 1997; 16: 351a.
Zelen M. The randomization and stratification of patients to
clinical trials. J Chronic Dis 1974; 27: 365–75.
Pocock SJ, Simon R. Sequential treatment assignment with
balancing for prognostic factors in the controlled clinical
trial. Biometrics 1975; 31: 103–15.
Pocock S. Clinical Trials: A Practical Approach. New York:
John Wiley & Sons, 1983.
Peterson B, George SL. Sample size requirements and length
of study for testing interaction in a 2 x k factorial design
when time-to-failure is the outcome. Control Clin Trials
1993; 14: 511–22.
Brown BW. The crossover experiment for clinical trials.
Biometrics 1980; 36: 69–79.
Blackwelder WC. “Proving the null hypothesis” in clinical
trials. Control Clin Trials 1982; 3: 345–53.
Piaggio G, Elbourne DR, Altman DG et al. for the
CONSORT Group. Reporting of noninferiority and equivalence randomized trials: an extension of the CONSORT
statement. JAMA 2006; 295: 1152–60.
Fleiss JL. Statistical Methods for Rates and Proportions,
2nd edn. New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1981.
George SL, Desu MM. Planning the size and duration of a
clinical trial studying time to some critical event. J Chronic
Dis 1974; 27: 15–24.
Freedman LS. Tables of the number of patients required
in clinical trials using the logrank test. Stat Med 1982; 1:
121–9.

76
85.
86.
87.

88.

89.

90.

91.

92.

93.

94.

95.

96.

97.

98.

99.

100.

Section I: General Principles
O’Brien PC, Fleming TR. A multiple testing procedure for
clinical trials. Biometrics 1979; 35: 549–56.
Lan KKG, DeMets DL. Discrete sequential boundaries for
clinical trials. Biometrika 1983; 70: 659–63.
Pampallona S, Tsiatis AA. Group sequential designs for onesided and two-sided hypothesis testing with provision for
early stopping in favor of the null hypothesis. J Stat Plan
Inference 1994; 42: 19–35.
EaSt Version 5.0: Software for the design, simulation and
interim monitoring of flexible clinical trials. Cambridge, MA:
Cytel Software Corporation, 2007.
Smith MA, Ungerleider RS, Korn EL et al. Role of independent data-monitoring committees in randomized clinical trials sponsored by the National Cancer Institute. J Clin Oncol
1997; 15: 2736–43.
FDA Draft Guidance for Clinical Trial Sponsors on the
Establishment and Operation of Clinical Trial Data Monitoring Committees. U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, Food and Drug Administration, November, 2001.
www.fda.gov/cber/gdlns/clindatmon.pdf [Accessed 19
August 2008].
Stupp R, Mason WP, van den Bent MJ et al. Radiotherapy
plus concomitant and aduvant temozolomide for glioblastoma. N Engl J Med 2005; 352: 987–96.
Hegi ME, Diserens A-C, Gorlia T et al. MGMT gene silencing and benefit from temozolomide in glioblastoma. N Engl
J Med 2005; 352: 997–1003.
Paik S, Shak S, Tang G et al. A multigene sssay to predict
recurrence of tamoxifen-treated, node-negative breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2004; 351: 2817–26.
Slamon DJ, Leyland-Jones B, Shak S et al. Use of chemotherapy plus a monocloncal antibody against HER2 for
metastatic breast cancer that overexpresses HER2. N Engl J
Med 2001; 344: 783–92.
Romond EH, Perez EA, Bryant J et al. Trastuzumab plus
adjuvant chemotherapy for operable HER2-positive breast
cancer. N Engl J Med 2005; 353: 1673–84.
Slamon DJ, Clark GM, Wong SG et al. Human breast cancer:
correlation of relapse and survival with amplification of the
HER-2/neu oncogene. Science 1987; 235: 177–82.
Seshadri R, Firgaira FA, Horsfall DJ et al. Clinical significance of HER-2/neu oncogene amplification in primary
breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 1993; 11: 1936–42.
Pritchard KI, Shepherd LE, O’Malley RP et al. HER2 and
responsiveness of breast cancer to adjuvant chemotherapy.
N Engl J Med 2006; 354: 2103–11.
Cardoso F, Van’t Veer L, Rutgers E et al. Clinical application
of the 70-gene profile: the MINDACT trial. J Clin Oncol
2008; 26: 729–35.
Buyse M, Loi S, van’t Veer L et al. Validation and clinical
utility of a 70-gene prognostic signature for women with
node-negative breast cancer. J Natl Cancer Inst 2006; 98:
1183–92.

101. Zelen M. Guidelines for publishing papers on cancer clinical
trials: responsibilities of editors and authors. J Clin Oncol
1983; 1: 164–9.
102. Begg C, Cho M, Eastwood S et al. Improving the quality of
reporting of randomized controlled trials: the CONSORT
(consolidation of standards for reporting trials) statement.
JAMA 1996; 276: 637–9.
103. Moher D, Schultz KF, Altman DG, for the CONSORT Group.
The CONSORT statement: revised recommendations for
improving the quality of reports of parallel-group randomized trials. Lancet 2001; 357: 1191–94.
104. Wang MS, Lagakos SW, Ware JH et al. Statistics in
medicine—reporting of subgroup analyses in clinical trials.
N Engl J Med 2007; 357: 2189–94.
105. Peto R. Statistical aspects of cancer trials. In: Halnan KE, ed.
Treatment of Cancer. London: Chapman and Hall, 1982:
867–71.
106. Bonetti M, Gelber RD. A graphical method to assess
treatment – covariate interactions using the Cox model on
subsets of the data. Stat Med 2000; 19: 2595–609.
107. Bonetti M, Gelber RD. Patterns of treatment effects in subsets
of patients in clinical trials. Biostatistics 2004; 5: 465–81.
108. Regan MM, Gelber RD. Using clinical trial data to tailor
adjuvant treatments for individual patients. Breast 2007; 16:
S98–104.
109. Lagakos SW. The challenge of subgroup analyses–reporting
without distorting. N Engl J Med 2006; 354: 1667–9.
110. Glass GV. Primary, secondary and meta-analysis of research.
Educational Researcher 1976; 5: 3–8.
111. Begg CB, Berlin JA. Publication bias: a problem in interpreting medical data. J R Stat Soc [Ser A] 1988; 151: 419–63.
112. Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group. Treatment
of Early Breast Cancer, Volume 1: Worldwide Evidence
1985–1990. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1990.
113. Gelber RD, Goldhirsch A, Coates AS. For the International
Breast Cancer Study Group, Adjuvant therapy for breast
cancer: understanding the overview. J Clin Oncol 1993; 11:
580–5.
114. Coates AS, Goldhirsch A, Gelber RD. Overhauling the breast
cancer overview: are subsets subversive? Lancet Oncol 2002;
3: 525–6.
115. Taylor KM, Margolese RG, Soskolne CL. Physicians’ reasons
for not entering patients in a randomized clinical trial of
surgery for breast cancer. N Engl J Med 1984; 310: 1363–7.
116. Ford JG, Howerton MW, Lai GY et al. Barriers to recruiting
underrepresented populations to cancer clinical trials: a systemic review. Cancer 2008; 112: 228–42.
117. Albrecht TL, Eggly SS, Gleason ME et al. Influence of clinical communication on patients’ decision making on participation in clinical trials. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 2666–73.
118. Gelber RD, Goldhirsch A. Can a clinical trial be the treatment of choice for patients with cancer? (editorial). J Natl
Cancer Inst 1988; 80: 886–7.

1
5
Breast Cancer
Marco Colleoni, Silvia Dellapasqua, and Aron Goldhirsch

Susceptibility genes include BRCA1 (20–40% of hereditary breast cancers), BRCA2 (10–30%), TP53 (<1%), PTEN
(<1%), ATM, CHK2, STK11 (<1%), and Fanconi’s Anemia
genes (1%) (5). BRCA1 and BRCA2 are associated with
hereditary breast cancer in younger age groups, increased
incidence of familial ovarian cancer (BRCA1 and BRCA2),
and male breast cancer (BRCA2). The lifetime breast cancer risk among women with BRCA1/2 varies from 56% to
80–85% (6). Several mutations in BRCA1/2 occur with a
higher frequency among individuals of Ashkenazi (East
European) Jewish descent, with three predominant mutations in BRCA1 (185delAG and 5382insC) and BRCA2
(6174delT) accounting for the majority of germline mutations (7). A two-hit model has been proposed to explain
the mechanism by which breast cancer can arise in
BRCA1/2 carriers. The first hit represents loss of the wild
type BRCA1 or BRCA2 allele, resulting in an increased rate
for subsequent genomic events. A second event increasing
proliferation of the partially malignant clone may lead to
selection of cells with additional mutations in genes that
facilitate tumor progression (8). BRCA1-related breast
cancer features include earlier age at onset, medullary features, higher proliferation, poor differentiation, estrogen
receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR) negative,
HER-2-negative, EGFR-positive, often with basal-like phenotype, and more lymphocytic infiltration than sporadic
cancers. BRCA2-related breast cancer features include
lower mitotic counts and expression of ER/PR. Despite the
association with adverse prognostic characteristics, BRCA1/
2-associated breast cancers have prognoses similar to or
better than sporadic tumors of similar stage (9).
A history of breast cancer is a contraindication for
the use of many oral contraceptives (10). At least four studies (11–14) found no increased contralateral breast cancer
risk among women who used oral contraceptives. The
Women’s Contraceptive and Reproductive Experiences study
reported no association with breast cancer risk (15) whereas
the Collaborative Group on Hormonal Factors in Breast
Cancer found a modest increased risk with recent oral
contraceptive use (16).
Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) with estrogens in
combination with progesterone, used to relieve menopausal
symptoms, is associated with increased breast cancer risk
(17–20). For women with a history of breast cancer, HRT
is contraindicated. Two randomized clinical trials investigated the use of HRT in breast cancer survivors, and
although the HABITS study showed a significant increased
risk of recurrence and was terminated early (21), a trial in
Sweden found no association (22). Several observational

EPIDEMIOLOGY/ETIOLOGY
Breast cancer is one of the most common types of cancer,
accounting for about 26% of new cancer cases among
women. Incidence rates decreased from 2001 to 2004 after
increasing since 1980. The disease is very rare before the
age of 20, seldom occurs below 30 years of age, and its
incidence rate rises up to the age of 50 years. In postmenopausal women, the rate of increase slows down, although
the incidence continues to rise. Breast cancer is the leading
cause of cancer death between ages 20 and 59 years.
However, breast cancer mortality rates have declined in
recent years, reflecting improvements in early detection
and treatment (1,2).
Geographical variation of incidence and mortality
are described. Interestingly, migrating populations adjust
incidence rates to that of host countries within a couple
of generations, underlining the importance of risk factors
related to environment and lifestyle beyond genetically
inherited factors (3).
Recognized breast cancer risk factors include age,
ethnicity, estrogen exposure, abnormal proliferation of breast
tissue (atypical hyperplasia or in situ carcinoma), radiation
exposure, family history/genetic predisposition, and lifestyle factors, such as obesity, alcohol consumption, and lack
of exercise (4). Table 5.1 lists some of the main risk factors
associated with an increased breast cancer risk. Additional
endocrine and lifestyle-related risk factors include early
menarche, late menopause, nulliparous/delayed first pregnancy, no/short duration breastfeeding, use of oral contraceptives, and hormone replacement therapy. Interventions
on lifestyle are difficult to study and are likely to influence
outcome, if at all, only after a long period of time.
The rapid growth of DNA-based tests has raised
complex questions about medicolegal and ethical issues
related to genetic screening, its accuracy, impact, and consequences upon individuals and their families. In addition,
the possible intervention strategies for breast cancer prevention in women who have tested positive are either
without any proof of efficacy, controversial, or still under
investigation. Several general approaches have been proposed: lifestyle modifications, prophylactic mastectomy
and/or oophorectomy, intensified screening, and chemoprevention (Table 5.2).

Specific Risk Factors
Overall, inherited genetic susceptibility accounts for only
about 5–10% of breast cancers.
77

78

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 5.1 Risk Factors (Except Age) Associated with Risk of
Invasive Breast Cancer
Major risk factors increasing risk >2 times (in descending order)
• Evidence of mutated BRCA 1 or BRCA 2
• CHEK2 (also known as CHK2): (CHEK2(*)1100delC, a truncating
variant that abrogates the kinase activity) approximately
twofold increase of breast cancer risk in women and a tenfold
increase of risk in men
• Premenopausal breast cancer in mother and sister
• In situ cancer—ductal or lobular or atypical hyperplasia in breast
biopsy
• Premenopausal breast cancer in mother or sister; bilateral breast
cancer in first relative
• Hyperplasia without atypia in breast biopsy
Minor risk indicators or factors increasing risk ≤2 times
• Postmenopausal breast cancer in first degree relative
• Obesity in women above 50 years
• Excess radiation to the chest wall or breast in history
• Alcohol consumption
• Nulliparous or delayed first pregnancy
• No breast feeding or short duration breast feeding of children
• Prolonged use of estrogens (contraceptive and/or hormone
replacement)

studies showed no increased risk of recurrence or increased
mortality associated with HRT use among breast cancer
survivors (23–25).
Environmental factors are thought to explain a large
proportion of breast cancer incidence. Exposure to ionizing
radiation, especially at a young age, is associated with
an increased breast cancer risk. Hodgkin’s disease survivors who received supra-diaphragmatic radiation have an
increased breast cancer risk. Cigarette smoking is a controversial risk factor for breast cancer (26) whereas soy food
intake (27), dietary vitamin D (28), and sunlight (29) may
have a protective effect. Although most environmental factors have not been convincingly found to influence breast
cancer risk, environmental exposure in combination with
genetic predisposition, age at exposure, and hormonal milieu
might have a cumulative effect on breast cancer risk (30).

DIAGNOSIS/SCREENING
More than 85% of newly diagnosed breast cancers are
detected as a lump in the breast. In about 80% of these,
a thickening of part of the breast is felt by the patient.
Hemorrhagic/stained nipple discharge, nipple retraction,
and erosion are less frequent. In about 10% of cases breast
cancer is diagnosed as an overt metastatic disease.
Early detection of breast cancer through breast selfexamination, clinical examination, and radiological imaging techniques, mainly screening mammography, increases
chances of long-term survival. Breast self-examination and
clinical examination can diagnose breast cancer by findings
such as a suspicious lump in the breast or in the axilla.
Mammography screening may reduce breast cancer mortality in certain populations with a beneficial effect that
persists even after long-term follow-up (31). Screening mammography can detect noncancerous lesions as well as in
situ and invasive breast cancers that are smaller than those
detected by other means (Fig. 5.1). It is therefore associated

Table 5.2 Interventions for Prevention of Breast Cancer for Women
at High Risk (as Identified by DNA Examination, Linkage Studies, or
Other Features in Table 4.1)
Lifestyle modifications
• Increased physical activity.
• Reduced dietary fat. Difficult to study. Might be most important in
preadolescent and adolescent girls. Investigation in these age
groups are warranted.
• Reduced alcohol consumption. About 4% of the breast cancers in
developed countries are attributable to alcohol.
Prophylactic mastectomy
• Offered to women with hereditary cancers (especially for the
BRCA 1 and BRCA 2 carriers) after proper genetic counseling.
• Data on the efficacy of this approach are insufficient.
• Several case reports exist of the development of breast cancer
following total mastectomy. Breast tissue is left behind even after
radical mastectomy.
Intensive screening
• Some advocate regular mammography for BRCA 1 and BRCA 2
carriers starting at 25 (experimental).
Might not be appropriate with current means because
mammography is not very efficient in young age and frequently
repeated, close mammographies for a long period of time might
be detrimental.
• Development of non-ionizing imaging technology: MRI and PET
require additional investigations to allow recognition of early
malignant features. Ultrasound imaging is currently not
considered sufficiently accurate.
Chemoprevention
• Tamoxifen. The first drug proven to reduce breast cancer
incidence in four randomized placebo-controlled trials. Its use
was based upon the experience in adjuvant trials (39% reduction
of incidence in contralateral breast cancer). The first report on
benefit from its use as chemoprevention was based upon data
from the BCPT of the NSABP on 13,388 study participants. Only
tumors with endocrine responsive disease responded to
treatment. Side effects of tamoxifen, especially increased risk of
endometrial cancer, thromboembolic complications (including
deaths from such complication), and teratogenicity are important
in evaluating its potential role as a preventive drug.
• Raloxifene. Another selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM)
with estrogen-like effects on bone (increase in bone mineral
density) and on lipid (decrease in total and LDL cholesterol
levels) metabolism, but not on endometrium. In placebocontrolled studies, primarily conducted to control osteoporosis,
there was a significant reduction of breast cancer.
• Retinoids have a potential role in preventing breast cancer
through their effect on several transcription factors, among which
TGF-B (which is antiproliferative on breast cancer cells).
Fenretinide (4 hydroxyphenyl-retinamide or 4-HPR) is a retinoid
which has been investigated in a placebo-controlled trial (in
node-negative breast cancer).
• Vitamin D analogs are good candidates for a prevention trial.
Side effects of such agents on calcium metabolism are, however,
a major impediment.

with more diagnostic testing, surgeries, radiotherapy, and
anxiety. Some of the screen detected cancers might never
become clinically relevant so that their diagnosis and treatment constitutes overdiagnosis and overtreatment. Main
limits of screening mammography are false negatives
(related to the sensitivity of the test), false positives (related
to the specificity), overdiagnosis (true positives that will

Chapter 5:

Breast Cancer

79

Figure 5.1 Mammography of a 65-year-old women
who noticed a lump in her breast. Clinical examination
revealed a 2.5 cm lump with skin fixation and no ulceration. On pathological examination there was an invasive
ductal carcinoma pT1c (2 cm) pN1 (1 out of 34), steroid
hormone receptors were both positive (80% and 60%, for
estrogen and progesterone receptors, respectively).

not become clinically significant), and radiation risk. Screening mammography is more likely to miss cancers in women
with radiographically dense breasts, as well as cancers that
are rapidly growing. Screening mammography can detect
subclinical breast cancer and has been proven particularly
effective in reducing breast cancer mortality in women
above the age of 50, despite a significant number of false
positive cases, whereas its use below the age of 50 is controversial because of lower incidence of the disease and lower
efficacy of mammographic evaluation of the premenopausal
breast.

HISTOPATHOLOGY
A complete pathological evaluation of all breast lesions is
the most important step for establishing a correct diagnosis.
In case of breast cancer lesions, additional assessment of
tumor biological features is fundamental for defining the
treatment approach.

Main Histotypes of Breast Carcinoma
Noninvasive Breast Carcinoma
Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) is a heterogeneous pathologic condition in which malignant breast epithelial cells
arise and proliferate in the ducts but do not invade the
surrounding stroma. The incidence of DCIS is increasing,
and a greater proportion of diagnoses are made in asymptomatic patients, often by calcifications on mammography
(Fig. 5.2). DCIS is multifocal in about 30% of cases, mainly
in the same breast. Treatment goal in DCIS is to control
local disease and prevent subsequent development of invasive cancer. No data from randomized trials compare mastectomy and breast-conserving therapy for DCIS treatment.
A large randomized trial comparing lumpectomy with

lumpectomy plus radiotherapy showed lumpectomy plus
radiotherapy to be a more effective treatment. Comedo
necrosis and surgical margin involvement are predictors of
risk of recurrence. The five-year risk of local recurrence
after lumpectomy and radiotherapy is approximately 8%.
In local relapses after breast-conserving therapy, the chance
of an invasive component is approximately 50%. The mortality rate due to breast cancer in patients who had breastconserving therapy is between 0.3% and 0.5%. The incidence
of axillary node metastasis is very low (2–6%) and probably due to an invasive component not recognized at the
time of the pathological examination of the specimen. Axillary dissection is not routinely recommended (32).
Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) is a proliferative
lesion limited to one or more mammary lobules without
invasion of the basement membrane. Many pathologists
refused to use the term carcinoma for a noninvasive lesion
and coined various definitions, such as epitheliosis, small cell
neoplasia, and lobular neoplasia. Recently the term lobular
intraepithelial neoplasia (LIN) has gained consideration in
defining this risk factor associated with development of
invasive breast cancer (ductal or lobular). The reason for
the high frequency (10–15% at 10 years; overall risk might
reach 50%) of subsequent development of invasive ductal
cancers remains unclear. This neoplasia occurs mainly in
premenopausal women, and is multicentric in 50–70% of the
cases. The diagnosis is often made on occasional removal
of breast tissue.
Noninvasive “lobular” proliferations are divided into
atypical lobular hyperplasia (ALH) and LCIS. In ALH a
terminal duct lobular unit is colonized by small discohesive
cells, the colonized units are not expanded, and their
lumina are not obliterated by this proliferation. Conversely,
LCIS is comprised of a population of cells with similar
cytomorphological characteristics, but the colonized structures are expanded and the lumina lost. These lesions

80

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Figure 5.2 Particular mammographic images of a
60-year-old woman with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS).
Imaging disclosed irregular, diffuse, and clustered microcalcifications. A quadrantectomy without axillary clearance was performed. On pathological examination DCIS
of intermediate grade, of micropapillary type with necrosis and microcalcifications (Imaging with the courtesy of
Dr. Enrico Cassano, European Institute of Oncology).

likely represent a temporal continuum, with LCIS evolving from ALH, and the terms lobular neoplasia or, more
recently, in situ lobular neoplasia are used to encompass both
lesions. The cytological similarities between lobular neoplasia in situ and infiltrating lobular carcinoma suggest a temporal continuum extending to invasive disease. Both ALH
and LCIS frequently resemble infiltrating lobular carcinoma
with respect to expression of biological markers, being ER
and PR positive, and HER-2 and p53 negative (33).

Invasive Breast Carcinoma
Infiltrating ductal carcinoma is the most common type of
breast cancer (67.9%, five-year relative survival 79%), followed by lobular carcinoma (6.3%, five-year survival 84%)
and medullary carcinoma (2.8%, five-year survival 82%).
Other types include mucinous (colloid) adenocarcinoma
(2.2%, five-year survival 95%), comedocarcinoma (1.4%,
five-year survival 87%), Paget’s disease (nipple and other
breast) (1.1%, five-year survival 79%), papillary carcinoma
(0.9%, five-year survival 95%), tubular adenocarcinoma (0.7%,
five-year survival 96%), and inflammatory carcinoma (0.5%,
five-year survival 18%). Other rare types of invasive cancers include adenoid-cystic carcinoma, apocrine carcinoma,
and carcinoma with squamous metaplasia. These types
of cancer might require some specific adjustment of the
treatment program (34).

Other Nonmalignant and Malignant Breast Diseases
Several pathological nonmalignant conditions present with
single or multiple breast lumps or with symptoms and signs
that simulate breast cancer.
Fibrocystic mastopathy occurs more often between 30
and 55 years of age and is frequently identified by women

as multiple lumps in one or both breasts. Mammographic
patterns of multiple areas of fibrosis and cysts are typical,
representing a difficult background for evaluation of an
underlying malignant neoplasia. Another associated pathological entity is sclerosing adenosis, which may appear in
younger ages. There is uncertainty whether this condition
may lead to an increased breast cancer risk: the overall
increased risk of 1.86 of developing breast cancer was
more likely to have resulted from the selection of patients
than from the real malignant potential of the disease. Proliferation with cell atypia upon pathological assessment is,
however, associated with an increased breast cancer risk,
especially in the presence of a positive family history.
Fibroadenoma presents as one or more mobile, indolent lumps, commonly in women between 20 and 25 years
of age. Fibrocystic mastopathy is occasionally associated.
Intraductal papilloma usually presents in larger ducts
as a mobile lump, often associated with hematic/stained
nipple discharge, and requires surgical removal. Galactography might be necessary for localization of the node.
Cell atypia are found in about a quarter of papillomas.
Multiple intraductal papillomas carry a higher breast cancer risk, although the risk is much lower for solitary central
papillomas.
Other malignant diseases of the breast might simulate breast cancer:
Phyllodes tumor (previously recognized as cystosarcoma phyllodes) is a rare fibroepithelial neoplasm of the
breast with a very variable, but usually benign, course. It
presents often in adolescence as a breast mass. Pathological
examination shows epithelial and mesenchymal components and defines the grade of malignancy. Treatment
requires a wide surgical removal, which often results in a
total mastectomy. High-grade or recurrent disease might
require radiation therapy and systemic treatments.

Chapter 5:

Sarcoma usually presents as a large fast growing, painless mass. Histopathological features and clinical behavior
are similar to sarcomas of other organs.
Malignant lymphoma is a very rare presentation, usually of B-cell type. Its evaluation and treatment follow
guidelines for this type of disorder.

Prognostic and Predictive Factors
Prognostic factors are patient or tumor characteristics that
can be used to assess the baseline prognosis, helping in
the estimation of costs/benefits for a treatment. Predictive
factors are patient or tumor characteristics that can be used
to predict a response to a given treatment, allowing a better use of available approaches. Both aspects must be taken
into consideration when evaluating patients with newly
diagnosed breast cancer in order to formulate the best treatment decision making.
The histological type of disease has a very limited
prognostic value: most common breast cancer histotypes
are treated using similar decision algorithms. Some specific
histological types might, however, require specific therapeutic considerations: medullary, pure mucinous, and adenoidcystic carcinomas are associated with favorable prognosis.
Emphasis must be given to several other biological features
of the disease, which provide the most significant information on prognosis and on prediction of response to a given
antineoplastic treatment (35–55).
An increasing number of prognostic and predictive
factors are currently being investigated. A list of established
or putative prognostic and predictive variables is provided
in Table 5.3. Table 5.4 lists the most important features with
prognostic relevance which influence treatment choice.
A novel approach to determine prognosis was
attempted using gene-expression profiling to predict disease outcome beyond clinical and histologic criteria. Multigene signatures using cDNA microarrays were found to
correlate with clinical outcome (56,57), and to retain independent prognostic value in multivariate prognostic models, yet this approach requires further prospective validation.
Two of these multigene signatures, namely Oncotype DX
[based on 21 genes by RT-PCR (58)] and MammaPrint
(based on a 70 gene-expression profiling) are currently
being prospectively tested in well-powered randomized
clinical trials (59,60).

CLINICAL PRESENTATION/STAGING
Definition of Stage and General
Therapeutic Consequences
Most patients with breast cancer are diagnosed with operable disease, with a disease confined to the breast and the
ipsilateral axillary lymph nodes. The extension of the disease from the breast to the overlying skin (with or without
ulceration) or the underlying chest wall (T4) or to locoregional nodes (other than ipsilateral axillary nodes) are classified as locally advanced disease. Overt metastases to
other organs are referred to as metastatic disease.
The current multidisciplinary approach to operable
disease involves the sequential use of surgery, adjuvant
systemic therapy and, in case of breast conservation or
very high risk for local recurrence, radiation therapy to the

Breast Cancer

81

remaining ipsilateral breast or to locoregional area after
mastectomy.
In case of locally advanced disease, systemic treatment represents the primary approach, followed, after
achievement of response, by surgery and radiation therapy,
in order to achieve freedom of disease.
Metastatic breast cancer is a chronic disease requiring
specific strategies to control the disease progression and
related symptoms (61). The choice of treatment in this context should follow the principle of “the least toxic therapy
available for a maximal avoidance of disease symptoms.”
Major attention should, therefore, be given to the
design of a comprehensive treatment strategy for every
stage of the disease. Staging procedures should thus follow
algorithms, which focus on assessment of prognosis and
adequacy of local disease control (for operable disease),
and specific therapeutic consequences (also for advanced
disease).
Beyond the efforts for accurate staging, the design of
a comprehensive treatment strategy requires the definition
of breast cancer biological characteristics, in particular ER
and PR expression, HER-2/neu overexpression or amplification, proliferation index, tumor grade, vascular/lymphatic
invasion, as well as patients features such as age, menopausal status, comorbid conditions/concomitant therapies,
and potential degree of patient’s frailty.

Staging
An attempt to provide some prognostic estimation and
the possibility to compare results from different clinical
trials was performed by grouping of patients according
to the anatomical extent of the disease. The most widely
used staging system is the one adopted by both the Union
International Contre le Cancer (UICC) and the American
Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC), based on the tumor,
nodes, metastases (TNM) system (62). This system, recently
reviewed as shown in Table 5.5, is suboptimal since it lacks
consideration of several biological features available today;
however, it is still important for uniformity of reports from
series and trials.
The AJCC staging system (http://cancernet.nci.nih.
gov) provides a strategy for grouping patients with respect
to prognosis. Therapeutic decisions are formulated in part
according to staging categories but primarily according to
tumor size, lymph node status, ER and PR levels in the
tumor tissue, HER-2/neu status, menopausal status, and
the general health of the patient.
The AJCC has designated staging by TNM classification (63). This system was modified in 2002 and classifies
some nodal categories as stage III that were previously
considered stage II (64). As a result, survival by stage for
case series classified by the new system will appear superior to those using the old system (65).

TNM Definitions
Definitions for classifying the primary tumor (T) are the same
for clinical and for pathologic classification. If the measurement is made by physical examination, the examiner will
use the major headings (T1, T2, or T3). If other measurements, such as mammographic or pathologic measurements,
are used, the subsets of T1 can be used. Tumors should be

82

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 5.3
Factor

Prognostic Factors in Patients with Breast Cancer
Remarks

Histopathological factors
Tumor size
Best information if pathologically determined.
Direct relationship between increased tumor size and worse prognosis.
Axillary lymph node
Most important prognostic variable. Several lymph nodes (about 10) must be examined to correctly estimate prognosis.
status
Negative axillary sentinel lymph node biopsy (SNB) is now accepted as allowing avoidance of axillary dissection.
Micro-metastatic disease in sentinel lymph nodes is prognostically relevant but it is still currently a subject for research.
Internal mammary lymph Site of the primary tumor might influence outcome. Internal mammary nodes involvement is an important prognostic factor,
node status
but their dissection did not improve prognosis. SNB can also be applied to the internal mammary chain, although the
therapeutic implications of sentinel-node involvement in this area are less certain and are largely experimental.
Vascular invasion
Extensive peritumoral vascular invasion was considered to elevate risk category.
Histological grade
Histological grade (composed of several features indicating more less resemblance to non malignant breast tissue) is
prognostically relevant. Nuclear grade is considered to be the most important component. Mitotic count might be the
best predictor of prognosis.
Estrogen and
Estrogen (ER) and progesterone (PR) receptor content in the primary tumor are powerful markers to predict endocrine
progesterone receptor
responsiveness in their presence and cytotoxic responsiveness in their absence.
status
Most clinical data use a different grouping which combines receptor-absent disease with that expressing low receptor
levels (so called receptor-negative). The central importance of the steroid hormone receptors emphasizes the
absolute necessity to measure ER and PgR report results in a standardized quantitative manner (e.g., percent of
cells stained), and use quality-assured procedures in experienced laboratories instead of reporting merely positive or
negative receptor status (often adopting arbitrary cutoffs).
Gene-expression profiling studies support a clear separation of steroid hormone receptor-absent disease as an entity
distinct from disease showing low or higher levels of receptor, while some clinical studies already provide empirical
data that receptor-absent disease is different from that with even low levels of receptor expression.
Cell proliferation indexes
Thymidine labeling
Measured on unfixed tumor material.
Higher values indicated worse prognosis.
Flow cytometry (S-phase) Measured on fixed material. Determination of proportion of cells in S phase.
Higher values indicate worse prognosis and chemotherapy response.
Ki-67
Measured on fixed material. Higher percentage of stained cells indicate worse prognosis and chemotherapy response.
Receptors (growth factors or growth regulators, including oncogenes)
Epidermal growth factor
Measured mainly on unfixed material.
receptor (EGFR, c-erbB-1) Higher percentage might predict worse prognosis.
Measured on fixed material.
HER2/neu (c-erbB-2)
Higher expression might predict worse prognosis.
Predictor of response to trastuzumab. Predictor of response to anthracycline combination chemotherapy, and for
resistance to tamoxifen or CMF combination chemotherapy.
IGF-IR (Insulin-like growth Measured in the serum.
factor receptor)
Lowering of its serum levels was seen during treatment with tamoxifen.
Somatostatin receptor
Presence in the tumor indicated better prognosis.
Tumor suppressor genes
p53
Although p53 protein accumulation and gene mutation were implicated in resistance to chemotherapy, the clinical
value of these findings remains controversial.
bcl-2
Bcl-2 protein may be involved in apoptosis regulation and therefore to response to cytotoxics or endocrine therapy.
nm23
Reduced expression of nm23 in the tumor was associated with high metastatic potential, thus with worse prognosis.
Miscellaneous
Heat shock protein
Expressed in a variety of environmental and pathophysiological stressful condition and thought to be involved in
(hsp 27)
protein–protein interactions (among which also oncogen products).
High concentrations of hsp 27 in tumor cells was associated with worse prognosis.
pS2
Estrogen-regulated cysteine-rich protein (subset of ER?).
Predicted response to endocrine therapy.
Tumor growth factor
Expression of TGF-α in tumor tissue was associated with worse prognosis.
Cathepsin D
Increased concentrations in tumor tissue correlated with worse prognosis.
Urokinase-plasminogen
Proteases determined on frozen tissue.
activator (uPA) and
Increased levels (as measured on tissue extracts using ELISAs) indicate dire prognosis in node-negative and nodePlasminogen activatorpositive disease. In contrast, patients with low uPA/PAI-1 and ER showed a particularly good prognosis.
inhibitor (PAI-1)
Cyclic AMP-binding
Regulatory subunits of c-AMP protein-dependent kinase.
proteins
Increased concentration in tumor tissue correlated with worse prognosis.
Angiogenesis
Neoplastic microvessel density is directly associated with prognosis. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its
receptor seem also to be associated with prognosis and susceptibility to drugs which affect angiogenesis.
Laminin receptor
Receptors to adhesive structural glycoprotein.
Increased concentration in tumor cells was associated with worse prognosis.
Cyclin E
Deregulated expression might correlate with survival but results are preliminary.
Tumor cells in bone marrow Isolated tumor cells or micrometastases in bone marrow were shown to be prognostically important, even years after
and circulating blood
diagnosis.

Chapter 5:

Table 5.4 List of Important Features with Prognostic Relevance
and Which Influence Treatment Choice and Patients’ Preferences
Patient and clinical-related features

Tumor-related

•
•
•

• Nodal status
• Pathological tumor size
• Multicentricity

Age
Menopausal status
Estimated duration of tumor
growth
• Clinical presentation
•

Imaging presentation
(multicentricity)

•

Results of liver, renal, and
marrow function tests

•

•

Clear margins of the tumor
after resection
• Histopathological features
(histological type, grade,
vessel invasion, intraductal
component)
• Estrogen (and progesterone)
receptor content in the
primary tumor
• HER2/neu expression in
the primary tumor

Additional imaging for chest
and skeleton (useful at
baseline for accurate
comparison during follow-up—in
case of symptomatic events)
• A baseline marker (e.g., CA
•
15-3 CEA) (useful at baseline
for accurate comparison during
follow-up in case of
symptomatic events)
•

A marker of proliferation

Additional pathological and
biological factors (Table 5.3)

measured to the nearest 0.1 cm increment. Patients with
pN3a and pN3b disease are considered operable. Patients
with pN3c disease are considered inoperable.

Primary Tumor (T)
• TX: Primary tumor cannot be assessed
• T0: No evidence of primary tumor
• Tis: Intraductal carcinoma, lobular carcinoma in situ, or
Paget’s disease of the nipple with no associated invasion of normal breast tissue
Tis (DCIS): Ductal carcinoma in situ
Tis (LCIS): Lobular carcinoma in situ
Tis (Paget): Paget’s disease of the nipple with no tumor
(Paget’s disease associated with a tumor is classified
according to the size of the tumor.)
• T1: Tumor not larger than 2.0 cm in greatest dimension
T1mic: Microinvasion not larger than 0.1 cm in greatest
dimension
T1a: Tumor larger than 0.1 cm but not larger than 0.5 cm
in greatest dimension
T1b: Tumor larger than 0.5 cm but not larger than 1.0 cm
in greatest dimension
T1c: Tumor larger than 1.0 cm but not larger than 2.0 cm
in greatest dimension
• T2: Tumor larger than 2.0 cm but not larger than 5.0 cm
in greatest dimension
• T3: Tumor larger than 5.0 cm in greatest dimension
• T4: Tumor of any size with direct extension to (a) chest
wall or (b) skin, only as described below
T4a: Extension to chest wall (including ribs, intercostal
muscles, and serratus anterior muscle but not pectoral
muscle)

Breast Cancer

83

T4b: Edema (including peau d’orange) or ulceration of
the skin of the breast, or satellite skin nodules confined
to the same breast
T4c: Both T4a and T4b
T4d: Inflammatory carcinoma (diffuse brawny induration of the skin of the breast with an erysipeloid edge,
due to tumor embolization of dermal lymphatics with
engorgement of superficial capillaries, usually without
an underlying palpable mass; radiologically there may
be a detectable mass and characteristic thickening of
the skin over the breast)

Regional Lymph Nodes (N)
• NX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed (e.g.,
previously removed)
• N0: No regional lymph node metastasis
• N1: Metastasis to movable ipsilateral axillary lymph
node(s)
• N2: Metastasis to ipsilateral axillary lymph node(s)
fixed or matted, or in clinically apparent ipsilateral
internal mammary nodes in the absence of clinically
evident lymph node metastasis
N2a: Metastasis in ipsilateral axillary lymph nodes
fixed to one another (matted) or to other structures
N2b: Metastasis only in clinically apparent ipsilateral
internal mammary nodes and in the absence of clinically
evident axillary lymph node metastasis
• N3: Metastasis in ipsilateral infraclavicular lymph
node(s) with or without axillary lymph node involvement, or in clinically apparent ipsilateral internal mammary lymph node(s) and in the presence of clinically
evident axillary lymph node metastasis; or, metastasis
in ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph node(s) with or
without axillary or internal mammary lymph node
involvement
N3a: Metastasis in ipsilateral infraclavicular lymph
node(s)
N3b: Metastasis in ipsilateral internal mammary lymph
node(s) and axillary lymph node(s)
N3c: Metastasis in ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph
node(s)

Pathologic Classification (pN)
Classification is based on axillary lymph node dissection
with or without sentinel lymph node (SLN) dissection.
Classification based solely on SLN dissection without subsequent axillary lymph node dissection is designated (sn)
for sentinel node, for example, pN0(I+) (sn).
• pNX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed (e.g., not
removed for pathologic study or previously removed)
• pN0: No regional lymph node metastasis histologically,
and no additional examination for isolated tumor cells
(ITCs: single tumor cells or small cell clusters <0.2 mm,
usually detected only by immunohistochemical (IHC)
or molecular methods but that may be verified on
hematoloxylin & eosin (H&E) stains, which do not
usually show evidence of malignant activity, such as
proliferation or stromal reaction)
• pN0(I-): No regional lymph node metastasis histologically,
negative IHC

84

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 5.5

TNM Classification of Breast Cancer (TNM UICC, 6th Edition) (Changes with Respect to the Previous Classification)

TNMUICC, 5th edition

TNMUICC, 6th edition

Regional lymph nodes: (iii) Level III (apical axilla): lymph
nodes medial to the medial margin of the pectoralis minor
muscle including those designated as subclavicular,
infraclavicular, or apical
Some M1 referred to “regional” lymph node metastases
(supraclavicular), while reference to infraclavicular lymph
node metastases was ambiguous (…any other…)

Regional lymph nodes: (iii) Level III (apical axilla): apical lymph nodes and those
medial to the medial margin of the pectoralis minor muscle excluding those
designated as subclavicular or infraclavicular

Clinical classification
Primary tumor (T):
Tis: Carcinoma in situ: intraductal carcinoma, or lobular
carcinoma in situ, or Paget’s disease of the nipple with no
tumor
Regional lymph nodes (N):
N2: Metastasis to ipsilateral axillary node(s) fixed to one
another or to other structures

N3: Metastasis to ipsilateral internal mammary lymph node(s)

New: Infraclavicular (subclavicular) (ipsilateral) and supraclavicular (ipsilateral) are
considered as Regional Lymph Nodes

Primary tumor (T):
Tis: Carcinoma in situ:
Tis (DCIS) Ductal carcinoma in situ
Tis (LCIS) Lobular carcinoma in situ
Tis (Paget) Paget’s disease of the nipple with no tumor
Regional lymph nodes (N):
N2: Metastasis in fixed ipsilateral axillary node(s) or in clinically apparent
ipsilateral internal mammary lymph node(s) in the absence of clinically evident
axillary lymph nodes metastasis
New:
N2a: Metastasis in axillary lymph node(s) fixed to one another or to other
structures
N2b: Metastasis only in clinically apparent internal mammary lymph node(s) in the
absence of clinically evident axillary lymph nodes metastasis
N3: Metastasis in ipsilateral infraclavicular lymph node(s) with or without axillary
lymph node involvement or in clinically apparent ipsilateral internal mammary
lymph node(s) in the presence of clinically evident axillary lymph node
metastasis; or metastasis in ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph node(s) with or
without axillary or internal mammary lymph node involvement
New:
N3a: Metastasis in infraclavicular lymph node(s)
N3b: Metastasis in internal mammary and axillary lymph nodes
N3c: Metastasis in supraclavicular lymph node(s)

Pathological classification
Regional lymph nodes (N):
Regional lymph nodes (N):
Low axillary lymph nodes resection will ordinarily include six or Low axillary lymph nodes resection will ordinarily include six or more lymph nodes.
more lymph nodes
If the lymph nodes are negative, but the number ordinarily examined is
not met, classify as pN0
New:
Examination of one or more sentinel lymph nodes may be used for pathological
classification. If classification is based solely on sentinel-node biopsy without
subsequent axillary lymph node dissection it should be designated (sn) for
sentinel node, e.g.,pN1(sn)
pN0: No regional lymph nodes metastasis
pN0: No regional lymph nodes metastasisa
pN1a: Only Micrometastasis (none larger than 0.2 cm)
pN1mi: Micrometastasis (larger than 0.2 mm, but none larger than 2 mm in
greatest dimension)
pN1: Metastasis to movable ipsilateral axillary node(s)
pN1: Metastasis in 1–3 ipsilateral axillary node(s) and/or in ipsilateral internal
mammary nodes with microscopic metastasis detected by sentinel lymph node
dissection but not clinically apparent
pN1bi: Metastasis to one to three lymph nodes, any more
pN1a: Metastasis in one to three axillary lymph node(s), including at least one
than 0.2 cm and all less than 2.0 cm in greatest dimension
larger than 2 mm in greatest dimension
pN1b: Internal mammary lymph nodes, with microscopic metastasis detected by
sentinel lymph node dissection but not clinically apparent
pN1c: Metastasis in one to three axillary lymph nodes and internal mammary
lymph nodes, with microscopic metastasis detected by sentinel lymph node
dissection but not clinically apparent
pN1bii: Metastasis to four or more lymph nodes, any more
pN2: Metastasis in four to nine ipsilateral axillary lymph nodes, or in clinically
than 0.2 cm and all less than 2.0 cm in greatest dimension
apparent ipsilateral internal mammary lymph node(s), in the absence of axillary
lymph node metastasis
pN2a:Metastasis in four to nine axillary lymph nodes including at least one that is
larger than 2 mm
pN2b: Metastasis in clinically apparent internal mammary lymph node(s), in the
absence of axillary lymph node metastasis
(Continued)

Chapter 5:

Table 5.5

Breast Cancer

85

TNM Classification of Breast Cancer (TNM UICC, 6th Edition) (Changes with Respect to the Previous Classification) (Continued)

TNMUICC, 5th edition

pN2: Metastasis ipsilateral of axillary lymph nodes that are
fixed to one another or to other structures
Grading: Histopathological grading referred to the degree of
differentiation

TNMUICC, 6th edition
New:
pN3: Metastasis in 10 or more ipsilateral axillary lymph nodes; or in ipsilateral
infraclavicular lymph nodes or in clinically apparent ipsilateral internal
mammary lymph nodes, in the presence of one or more positive axillary lymph
nodes; or in more than three axillary lymph nodes with clinically negative
microscopic metastasis in internal mammary lymph nodes; or in ipsilateral
supraclavicular lymph nodes
pN3a: Metastasis in 10 or more axillary lymph nodes (at least one larger than
2 mm) or metastasis in infraclavicular lymph nodes
pN3b: Metastasis in clinically apparent internal mammary lymph node(s), in the
presence of positive axillary lymph node(s); or metastasis in more than three
axillary lymph nodes and in internal mammary lymph nodes with microscopic
metastasis detected by sentinel lymph node dissection but not clinically apparent.
pN3c: Metastasis in supraclavicular lymph node(s)
Not considered
Grading: Histopathological grading. Reference indicated as Elston CW & Ellis IO,
Histopathology 1991.

a

Cases with only isolated tumor cells (ITC) in regional lymph nodes are classified as pN0. ITC are single tumor cells or small clusters of cells not more than 0.2 mm in
greatest dimension. That are usually detected by immunohistochemistry or molecular methods but which may be verified on H&E stains. ITCs do not typically show
evidence of metastatic activity e.g., proliferation of stromal reaction.

• pN0(I+): No regional lymph node metastasis histologically, positive IHC, and no IHC cluster larger than
0.2 mm
• pN0(mol-): No regional lymph node metastasis histologically, and negative molecular findings (RT-PCR,
reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction)
• pN0(mol+): No regional lymph node metastasis histologically, and positive molecular findings (RT-PCR)
• pN1: Metastasis in one to three axillary lymph nodes,
and/or in internal mammary nodes with microscopic
disease detected by SLN dissection but not clinically
apparent
pN1mi: Micrometastasis (larger than 0.2 mm but not
larger than 2.0 mm)
pN1a: Metastasis in one to three axillary lymph nodes
pN1b: Metastasis in internal mammary nodes with
microscopic disease detected by SLN dissection but not
clinically apparent
pN1c: Metastasis in one to three axillary lymph nodes
and in internal mammary lymph nodes with microscopic
disease detected by SLN dissection but not clinically
apparent (If associated with more than three positive
axillary lymph nodes, the internal mammary nodes are
classified as pN3b to reflect increased tumor burden.)
• pN2: Metastasis in four to nine axillary lymph nodes,
or in clinically apparent internal mammary lymph
nodes in the absence of axillary lymph node metastasis
to ipsilateral axillary lymph node(s) fixed to each other
or to other structures
• pN2a: Metastasis in four to nine axillary lymph nodes
(at least one tumor deposit larger than 2.0 mm)
• pN2b: Metastasis in clinically apparent internal mammary lymph nodes in the absence of axillary lymph
node metastasis
• pN3: Metastasis in ten or more axillary lymph nodes,
or in infraclavicular lymph nodes, or in clinically apparent ipsilateral internal mammary lymph node(s) in the
presence of one or more positive axillary lymph node(s);
or, in more than three axillary lymph nodes with

clinically negative microscopic metastasis in internal
mammary lymph nodes; or, in ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph nodes
pN3a: Metastasis in ten or more axillary lymph nodes
(at least one tumor deposit larger than 2.0 mm); or,
metastasis to the infraclavicular lymph nodes
pN3b: Metastasis in clinically apparent ipsilateral internal
mammary lymph nodes in the presence of one or more
positive axillary lymph node(s); or, in more than three
axillary lymph nodes and in internal mammary lymph
nodes with microscopic disease detected by sentinel
lymph node dissection but not clinically apparent
pN3c: Metastasis in ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph
nodes

Distant Metastasis (M)
• MX: Presence of distant metastasis cannot be assessed
• M0: No distant metastasis
• M1: Distant metastasis

AJCC Stage Groupings
Stage 0
Stage I
Stage IIA

Stage IIB
Stage IIIA

Stage IIIB

Stage IIIC
Stage IV

Tis, N0, M0
T1 (including T1mic), N0, M0
T0, N1, M0 or
T1 (including T1mic), N1, M0 or
T2, N0, M0
T2, N1, M0 or
T3, N0, M0
T0, N2, M0 or
T1 (including T1mic), N2, M0 or
T2, N2, M0 or
T3, N1, M0 or
T3, N2, M0
T4, N0, M0 or
T4, N1, M0 or
T4, N2, M0
Any T, N3, M0
Any T, Any N, M1

86

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

ROLE OF SURGERY/RADIOTHERAPY
Treatment of Breast Cancer
The global strategy in approaching a patient with limited
disease confined to the breast and ipsilateral axillary nodes
has drastically changed in the past 30 years. Currently, the
following treatments should be discussed:
• Breast surgery should be offered to patients presenting
with tumors confined to the breast, not involving skin
or muscle, and at most accompanied by palpable lymph
nodes in the ipsilateral axilla. For large, isolated lesions
(in relationship to the size of the breast), primary systemic therapy should be considered to allow breast
conservation.
• Postoperative radiation therapy is generally indicated
for all patients undergoing breast-conserving surgery.
Postoperative radiation to the chest wall after total mastectomy or more extensive surgery is strongly recommended only for patients who have a very high risk
for locoregional recurrence (>20%).
• Adjuvant systemic therapy should be considered for all
patients with invasive breast cancer.

Table 5.6

Surgical Procedures
Surgery has a prominent role to eliminate overt disease,
when confined to the mammary gland and to ipsilateral
axillary nodes. Table 5.6 illustrates the various surgical
procedures. Breast conservation and total mastectomy
with axillary clearance have been demonstrated to produce
equivalent survival results in multicenter, randomized clinical trials (66). Decisions regarding the type of local therapy
should be made after discussion with the patient taking
into account her preferences. Breast conservation, defined
as complete tumor excision followed by whole breast irradiation, should be offered as preferred therapy to most
women with operable breast cancer.
Proper surgical technique contributes to cosmetic
results, which are enhanced if incisions are placed appropriately (including a separate incision for axillary dissection), no sutures are placed in the substance of the breast,
and complete hemostasis is obtained. For accurate pathological evaluation, orientation of the intact, excised specimen
and avoidance of diathermy allow evaluation of excision
margins. Re-excision should be performed if pathological
excision margins are smaller than a few millimeters. This

Common Surgical Procedures for Breast Cancer Treatment

Surgical procedure

Definitions and remarks

Radical mastectomy

• En bloc removal of the breast and overlying skin as well as the pectoralis major and minor muscles. Includes a
total axillary clearance.
• Might still be a reasonable treatment for patients with large, bulky tumors involving pectoralis muscles, for
whom the use of primary systemic therapies are contraindicated.
• En bloc removal of the internal mammary lymph nodes chain and vessels through thoracotomy. Involves also the
resection of a portion of the sternum and adjacent ribs (second to fourth), breast and overlying skin, as well as
the pectoralis major and minor muscles. Includes also a total axillary clearance.
• This procedure has no indications.
• Also named total mastectomy with axillary lymph node dissection and preservation of the pectoralis major
muscle. Not as precisely defined as radical mastectomy. Variations were introduced according to the procedure
used to dissect or not the pectoralis minor muscle (with or without its preservation, including the neurovascular
bundle). Axillary dissection is variably performed to include clearance of I, II, and III axillary lymph node level.
• Used by many who prefer some degree of dissection of the pectoralis minor to optimize axillary lymph node
clearance.
• Removal of the entire breast, the overlying skin, and the pectoralis muscle fascia, without the removal of
pectoralis muscles. The additional axillary clearance is not included in the procedure, thus if performed, it
should be specifically mentioned.
• Currently the total mastectomy and axillary clearance are often performed as an alternative to breast
conservation procedures when the latter is contraindicated or not applied due to patient’s preference.
• Removal of the breast tissue preserving the skin envelope and the nipple-areolar complex.
• This procedure has a controversial role in the treatment of invasive cancer since about 10–15 percent of breast
tissue is left behind.
• These procedures are usually completed with axillary lymph node clearance and radiation therapy.

Extended radical
mastectomy

Modified radical
mastectomy

Total mastectomy (+axillary
clearance)

Subcutaneous mastectomy

Breast preservation
procedures
• Tumorectomy,
lumpectomy
• Quadrantectomy
Breast reconstruction after
mastectomy (immediate
or delayed)
Sentinel-node biopsy

Removal of the tumor with grossly clear margins. Also referred to as wide excision to distinguish from diagnostic
lumpectomy.
En bloc removal of the tumor within a quadrant of breast along with pectoralis major muscle fascia and overlying skin.
• Using either local tissue and submuscular implant, or a myocutaneous flap (latissimus dorsi or transverse rectus
abdominis flap) with or without implant of prosthesis.
• Usually requires two or more surgical interventions. The timing of these procedures is controversial.
• Connective tissue reactions towards silicon implants were described, and influence patients’ acceptance
Axillary staging through the pathologic evaluation of the first lymph node that drains the tumor area (sentinel-node
biopsy) was tested to avoid extensive surgery on a negative axilla. The proper technique to use should include
lympho-scintigraphy and as an alternative blue-dye injection. An extensive pathology work-up and training is
required for an accurate and reproducible result.

Chapter 5:

might also help in identifying multiple cancer foci (either
intraductal or invasive).
The conserved breast should receive whole breast irradiation. Routine irradiation of the dissected axilla or other
draining lymph node regions usually does not improve
local control and increases morbidity (67).
Total mastectomy may be preferred to breast conservation in several cases (Table 5.7). Aspects such as short
life expectancy and a small endocrine responsive tumor
might lead to considering less than mastectomy without
irradiation to the conserved breast, however no group was
identified to allow avoidance of radiation to the conserved
breast (68). New technologies, such as partial, intraoperative breast irradiation, are currently investigated, and
represent promising treatments for the future.
Axillary lymph node dissection is preferred to removal
of level I and II axillary lymph nodes and remains the
standard of care for invasive breast cancer, especially for
women with palpable nodes in the axilla, multicentric
disease, or large tumors (>3 cm). It provides significant
prognostic information, and controls nodal metastases and
disease progression in the axilla. An axillary staging through
the pathological evaluation of the first node draining the
tumor area (sentinel-node biopsy, SNB) was tested to avoid
extensive surgery on a negative axilla, and was found to
be proper for routine use, when the size of the tumor does
not exceed 2–3 cm (69). The technique to use, extent of the
pathological work-up, and training required for an accurate and reproducible surgery are heterogeneous and must
adhere as much as possible to described methods (70).
Axillary lymph node dissection is not required for
the management of DCIS; however, during the last decade,
sentinel lymph node biopsy has been increasingly used to
exclude the presence of axillary metastases (when invasive
disease is present within the DCIS). This approach should
be considered when there is an increased probability for the
presence of invasive breast cancer within the DCIS (71).

Radiation Therapy After Surgery
Radiation therapy remains an important component of the
management of breast cancer. In the past, chest wall irradiation after mastectomy was routinely carried out in most
women, especially in node-positive disease. Randomized
trials demonstrated that, despite the significant reduction

Table 5.7

Remarks

•

•

•

87

in local recurrence, only a modest influence on systemic
relapse and overall survival (OS) in patients with high-risk
disease could be obtained (72,73). Central review of data
from 20,000 women from 40 randomized trials of radiotherapy for early breast cancer was performed: breast cancer mortality was reduced (p = 0.0001) but other, particularly
vascular, mortality was increased (p = 0.0003), and overall
20-year survival was 37.1% with radiotherapy versus 35.9%
in the control arm (p = 0.06) (74).
The largest effect on systemic disease and subsequent
improved survival was observed in two trials of patients
at high-risk of recurrence, when radiation therapy to the
chest wall was delivered together with systemic therapy.
Controversies exist, however, concerning the adequacy of
surgery and systemic treatment (low-dose regimen chemotherapy and short tamoxifen duration) delivered in these
trials. Recent analysis of the Danish and the EORTC trials
has cast doubt on the traditional perception that radiotherapy is of most benefit to patients with higher risk of
relapse (e.g., ≥4 positive nodes). In these trials, indeed, the
highest survival benefit was seen among patients with one
to three positive nodes, while the reduction in locoregional
recurrences was largest in patients with more advanced
cancer (75).
Radiation therapy to the conserved breast after proper
tumor surgery reduces the incidence of relapse in the ipsilateral breast. Breast radiation is usually performed using
supervoltage equipment to 4500–5000 cGy in doses of
80–200 cGy/day, through fields tangential to the chest wall.
Increasing the dose to the primary site to 6000 cGy or 60 Gy
(boost) is often performed, using either electron beam or
interstitial implantation. The role of routine boosting is imprecise although the role of a boost was recently described
particularly in younger patients (76). Disease control in the
conserved breast with radiation therapy is dependent upon
several features, including multicentricity, total tumor excision, presence of extensive intraductal component, and
vessel invasion.
Radiation therapy confined to fields less than the
whole breast (partial breast irradiation, PBI) has been
investigated using a number of different techniques. Longterm safety, efficacy, and issues about treatment of relapse
in the breast following PBI require further evaluation.
At present, PBI should be confined to prospective clinical
trials (77).

Conditions under Which Breast Conservation Procedure Should Not Be Advised for Local Control of Disease

Condition

•

Breast Cancer

Large tumor relative to the size
of the breast
Gross multifocal disease

Precludes an acceptable cosmetic result.

• Breast relapse rate is high despite radiation therapy. Extensive intraductal component (EIC = when at
least 25% of the tumor area) was associated with high breast relapses after radiation therapy
(especially after tumorectomy).
• Central tumors or Paget’s disease of the nipple are not a contraindication for breast conservation.
• Does not allow a proper, patient-reassuring follow-up.

Extensive malignant type diffuse
microcalcifications are present
on mammography
• Prior high-dose radiation therapy •
has been given to the region

Prior radiation therapy (e.g., previous malignant lymphomas), or concomitant pathological condition
which does not allow curative radiation of the breast without risk of severe toxic effects (e.g., collagenvascular disease, or significant cardiac or pulmonary insufficiency).

88

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Several issues associated with local disease control
still need to be clarified. For instance, screening-detected
cancers or very small tumors are still treated in the same
way as symptomatic cancers of the breast, despite the fact
that data on the adequacy of their treatment with surgery
alone are either not available or controversial (78).
The clinical relevance of clear surgical margins for
breast conservation is controversial. The failure rate in cases
of unclear margins, with either in situ or invasive cancer,
is increased despite radiation therapy, but the magnitude
of this increase is not well defined.
The adequacy of radiation therapy to the breasts of
young women is an issue for debate. The local failure rate
following radiation therapy is higher for younger women,
but several features other than age have also been associated
with this increased risk.
Elderly patients derive similar benefits from proper
radiation therapy as younger women. Logistics are often, however, more complex for patients of more advanced age resulting in a higher burden of treatment. Cost–benefit considerations
for elderly women are likely to yield different results.
Some long-term side effects of radiation therapy
remain unknown as a result of the lack of proper longitudinal studies designed to identify late sequelae (79). Efforts
are made to improve late toxicity from the known interaction between radiation and drugs, like anthracyclines or
taxanes commonly employed in the adjuvant setting (80).
Integration of radiation therapy and systemic adjuvant chemotherapy is a matter of controversy. Attempts
to complete the local treatment by delivering radiation
therapy immediately after surgery have conflicted with
the logical approach of starting systemic treatment without delay. Delivering the two modalities simultaneously
can result in an unsatisfactory outcome. In contrast, the
International Breast Cancer Study Group (IBCSG) has shown
for the first time in randomized trials (trials VI and VII)
that the incidence of breast recurrence in the conserved
ipsilateral breast within five years of follow-up was similar
whether there was no radiotherapy delay, or there was a
delay of three or six months to allow for completion of
cytotoxic adjuvant therapy (81). Concurrent radiation therapy
and classical CMF (cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and
5-fluorouracil) was attempted omitting radiation on the
days in which i.v. MF is administered. This approach seems
feasible and represents a reasonable approach to shorten
the overall adjuvant treatment period. Controversy exists
on the timing of radiation therapy with respect to tamoxifen
due to some reports on increased risk of lung fibrosis when
the two modalities are combined (82).

Follow-up After Local Treatment
Follow-up after local treatment for breast cancer has the
primary role to identify recurrences of breast cancer and/
or second primary cancers. Relapses after early breast cancer have highest rates within the first five years following
primary treatment, but patients remain at risk for the rest
of their lives. Second, it may recognize local complications
after breast surgery and radiation therapy and long-lasting
side effects of treatment (83). Finally, it may exert a psychosocial function, since early breast cancer patients frequently
face a burden of anxiety and depression due to their
worries about recurrence (84).

Limits of follow-up include costs (in terms of patient/
physician time and monetary costs), anxiety (no testing
procedures have optimal sensitivity nor specificity), and
the fact that recurrent breast cancer is not a curable disease.
Of note, early institution of “salvage” therapy is not more
efficacious than using the “salvage” therapy at a future
time point in the disease course, with the exception of
locoregional recurrences.
Controversies exist about routine use of laboratory
tests and imaging procedures, which rarely identify metastatic disease in asymptomatic patients. More than 75% of
all breast cancer recurrences are heralded by symptoms,
often detected by patients, or by findings on physical
examination, in particular for locoregional recurrences.
Two randomized trials were conducted in Italy to
investigate the role of intensive follow-up. In the first of
such trials, comparing intensive follow-up (physical examination, annual mammography, biannual chest x-ray, and
bone scan) versus clinical follow-up (physical examination
and mammography), an earlier detection of recurrences
was shown in the intensive follow-up group, with no difference in the five-year overall mortality (85). In the second
trial, comparing intensive surveillance (physician visits,
bone scan, liver ultrasound, chest x-ray, and laboratory
tests) versus control (only clinically indicated tests + yearly
mammogram), there were no differences in terms of OS,
time to detection of recurrence, and quality of life in the
two groups (86).
The 2006 ASCO-recommended investigations in breast
cancer surveillance include
• history, physical examination, and patient education
regarding symptoms of recurrence (every 3–6 months
for the first three years, then every 6–12 months for the
next two years, then annually)
• genetic counseling (in women at high risk for familial
breast cancer syndromes)
• breast self-examination (monthly)
• mammography (yearly).
Insufficient data exist so far to recommend routine
use of the following tests in asymptomatic patients: blood
tests, chest x-ray, bone scan, liver ultrasound/computed
tomography, PET scan, and breast MRI (87). The latter
exam, however, is thought to be useful as an adjunct to
mammography in the follow-up of BRCA 1–2 mutation
carriers or for patients who have been treated for breast
cancer and have not been elected to undergo bilateral mastectomy (88–90). Alkaline phosphatase is the most sensitive
test in cases of overt metastatic disease (91). The role of
circulating tumor markers such as CEA and CA15-3 for
early detection of metastatic disease was defined as potentially useful, although the clinical utility of routine serial
determination is still being investigated due to lack of
sensitivity and specificity (92).

SYSTEMIC TREATMENT
Adjuvant Systemic Therapy
Many breast cancer patients who remain disease free after
local and regional treatment eventually relapse and die as
a result of, or with, overt metastases. The current hypothesis ascribes the failure to obtain freedom from disease to

Chapter 5:

occult micro-metastatic disease already present at the time
of diagnosis and first surgery. After observations of tumor
regression after oophorectomy, adjuvant systemic therapy
had initially been applied as ovarian ablation. Systemic
adjuvant chemotherapy was later introduced as a result
of response rates of measurable metastases to cytotoxic
agents, the hypothesis being related to an attempt to kill
cells that detach during surgery, which were considered to
be responsible for the development of overt metastases.
This hypothesis of perioperative migration of cells with
metastatic potential has been abandoned in favor of the
one attributing overt metastases to micro-metastatic disease
at the time of primary diagnosis. Newer hypotheses include
the organization of micro-metastatic disease within its environment, forming structures with proper stroma and vascularization, which become important features to consider
for the development of novel treatment strategies.
Almost all knowledge about the benefits of adjuvant
systemic treatment has derived from randomized trials
which were designed to define treatment benefit in terms
of disease free survival (DFS) or OS. Two main types of
treatments have been investigated in the past few decades:
endocrine therapies and cytotoxic drugs (administered as
single- or multiple-agent regimens), or their combination.
These treatments were found to be effective in prolonging
DFS and OS as compared to locoregional treatment only.
More recently, trials have investigated new therapeutics
directed toward specific targets, such as trastuzumab, in
the attempt to improve further treatment outcome. Adjuvant therapy averts relapse in one-third of the patients who
would have relapsed without its use, resulting in a death
rate reduction by about one-fifth. Cumulative estimates
after 5–15 years of follow-up indicate that the benefit in
terms of reduction of the risk of death is about 7–12% (OS
percentage increases at 10 years from 40% to 50%) in nodepositive and 2–5% in node-negative breast cancer (OS percentage increases at 10 years from 79% to 84%). Newer
trials that compare a newer adjuvant systemic therapy with
the best available treatment, are likely to yield smaller differences, which might however be medically and humanly
relevant, thus requiring a larger sample size.
As a result of these sample size considerations, summing up of the results in an overview or meta-analysis
from individual trials, which compared one therapy with
another, has become the most powerful tool for identifying
treatment outcome differences. The latest update of this
international collaborative effort was performed in 2005.
The overview was specifically carried out to identify a real
treatment effect from a given adjuvant treatment, providing less information about the magnitude of treatment
effects, due to heterogeneity of selection criteria and treatments in the various trials (93).

• Tamoxifen was found to be effective in the adjuvant
treatment of patients with operable breast cancer at
any stage and at any age, the magnitude of treatment
effect being related with ER expression. Five-year treatment duration is reasonable although the debate on
longer durations is awaiting publication from recently
completed trials.
• Chemotherapy was effective in improving DFS and OS
in all groups, the largest magnitude of treatment effect

Breast Cancer

89

being observed in ER-poor/negative disease independently of age.
• Ovarian ablation was found to be effective in patients
less than 50 years of age, presenting at any stage of
operable disease.

The choice of adjuvant treatment is based on results
from clinical trials and evaluation of risk factors derived
from disease and patient-related features (Table 5.8). Expert
consensus meetings, such as those held in St. Gallen
(Switzerland) since 1978, attempt to define general principles based upon available evidence and expert opinion
to guide the treatment choice for women with early breast
cancer. Since 2005, a fundamental change was made in the
algorithm for selection of adjuvant systemic therapy for
early breast cancer, in that endocrine responsiveness of the
cancer was given a primary importance in the selection
of systemic therapy. Three categories were acknowledged:
highly endocrine responsive (high expression of both ER
and PR in a majority of tumor cells), incompletely endocrine responsive (lower expression of ER and/or PR), and
endocrine nonresponsive (complete absence of both ER and
PR). The degree of endocrine responsiveness contributes,
together with an assessment of the level of risk of relapse,
to a decision about whether endocrine therapy alone
may be sufficient: highly endocrine responsive tumors in
patients at low risk of relapse may be suitable for endocrine therapy alone, while chemotherapy may be required
for patients with highly endocrine responsive tumors in
case of intermediate- or high-risk, and for patients with
incompletely endocrine responsive tumors. Much as steroid hormone receptors are targets for endocrine therapies,
the presence of HER-2 on the cell surface is an effective
target for trastuzumab. Moreover, it was acknowledged
that axillary lymph node involvement did not automatically define high risk, so that intermediate risk included
both node-negative disease (if some features of the primary
tumor indicated elevated risk) and patients with one to
three involved lymph nodes without additional high-risk
features. Table 5.9 summarizes the St. Gallen risk categories for patients with operated breast cancer. Treatment
choice recommendations for each subpopulation defined
by these factors were made. Table 5.10 describes available
types of systemic adjuvant therapies based upon baseline
prognosis and features influencing treatment outcome.

Chemotherapy Regimens and Their Toxicities
Historical developments and trials as well as clinical practice
led to the availability of several types of chemotherapeutic
regimens proven or presumed to be effective adjuvant therapies. It is recognized that there are two general levels of
cytotoxic therapy regimens. Treatment with four courses of
AC (doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide) was shown to be
equivalent to six courses of classical CMF (94). Several
regimens and schedules such as Canadian CEF (cyclophosphamide, epirubicin, fluorouracil), CAF regimen (95), dosedense doxorubicin, paclitaxel, and cyclophosphamide (96),
and to some extent also tailored FEC (fluorouracil, epirubicin,
and cyclophosphamide) (97) and docetaxel, doxorubicin, and
cyclophosphamide (TAC) (98) have been shown in comparative trials to yield superior results, though at the cost

90

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 5.8

Adjuvant Systemic Therapies and Some Relevant Treatment Concepts Investigated in Randomized Clinical Trials

Treatments

Results and remarks

Ovarian ablation

•
•
•

Perioperative cytotoxic therapy
of short duration
Preoperative chemotherapy

•
•
•
•

Adjuvant prolonged
chemotherapy

•

•
•
•
•

•
Adjuvant Tamoxifen

•

•
•
•
Adjuvant aromatase inhibitors

•
•
•

•
•

Overview results showed an estimated relative reduction in the odds of relapse or death of 26% and a
reduction in the odds of death of 25%.
The reduction in relapses associated with the use of ovarian ablation appeared late during follow-up.
Chemotherapy-induced amenorrhea was also found to be associated with improved DFS in trials of adjuvant
cytotoxic therapies. It is unlikely that the main therapeutic effect of adjuvant chemotherapy in
premenopausal patients is exclusively due to ovarian suppression. Improved DFS was seen in patients who
had ER-positive tumors, and was observed also in patients who resumed menses after an amenorrhea lasting
several months.
Current trials investigate ovarian suppression with GnRH analogs and its combination with chemotherapy.
Overview data showed a slight reduction of relapses.
Preoperative chemotherapy with four courses of adriamycin and cyclophosphamide (AC) yielded similar
results to the postoperative use of the same regimen (NSABP trial B-18).
Several regimens were tested as preoperative chemotherapy in early breast cancer including some new
agents and approaches. The advantage of evaluating primary tumor responses to preoperative chemotherapy
was used for the definition of new administration modalities (e.g., continuous infusion of 5-fluorouracil given
with intermittent 4-epirubicin and cisplatin with an estimated response rate of 98%).
For recurrence, polychemotherapy produced substantial and highly significant proportional reductions both
among women aged under 50 at randomization (35%) and among those aged 50–69 (20%). Adjuvant
polychemotherapy produces an absolute improvement of about 7–11% in 10-year survival for women aged
under 50 at presentation with early breast cancer, and of about 2–3% for those aged 50–69. Most
investigated regimens in surgery-controlled trials were CMF-type; compared with CMF alone, anthracyclinecontaining regimens produced somewhat greater effects on recurrence and mortality. The benefits of
adjuvant chemotherapy within 10 years outweigh the burdens especially for younger women (<50 years old)
and among older women (50–69 years) to a lesser degree when the size of the benefit in terms of qualityadjusted survival was evaluated.
Multidrug regimens were found to be superior to single drugs (alkylating agents).
The use of anthracyclines instead of methotrexate in trials in which the two regimens were compared (i.e., CEF
vs. classical CMF or CAF vs. classical CMF) showed a significant improvement of DFS at cost of increased
toxicity.
An alternating regimen with doxorubicin followed by CMF compared with the same drugs given in a sequence
starting with CMF resulted in an advantage for the doxorubicin-first regimen.
Two major trials examined four courses of paclitaxel after four cycles of AC, but the interpretation of these
results has been made difficult by the confounding of duration, receptors and the concurrent administration
of tamoxifen compared with AC alone. The effect was exclusively observed in the subpopulation with
ER-negative disease.
A trial which investigated a dose reduction showed a significant decreased treatment effect for patients
treated with the lower dose.
Overview data showed that Tamoxifen reduced the annual odds of recurrence or death by 26% and the odds
of death by 14% (summary effect of trials with 1, 2, or 5 years Tamoxifen). Tamoxifen was effective in
patients with tumors classified as estrogen receptor positive. Contralateral breast cancer risk was reduced by
approximately 35%.
Different doses of tamoxifen have not been compared. The recommended dose is 20 mg/day.
Treatment duration trials with tamoxifen show that the duration of 5 years should be recommended until
further information will be available from ongoing studies. Reduction of odds of recurrence or death in trials
of 5 years duration were 42% and 22%, respectively.
Different endocrine therapies using progestins (e.g., medroxyprogesterone acetate), and older aromatase
inhibitors (aminoglutethimide) were insufficiently investigated.
Initial adjuvant endocrine therapy with the aromatase inhibitors anastrozole or letrozole was tested in large
trials against tamoxifen and found to significantly reduce relapse among postmenopausal women with
endocrine responsive disease.
Sequential adjuvant endocrine therapy using exemestane or anastrozole after 2–3 years of tamoxifen to
complete 5 years of endocrine therapy significantly improved treatment outcome.
Letrozole was tested against placebo after completion of about 5 years of adjuvant tamoxifen. A significant
advantage in disease-free survival was observed. OS was also significantly better in the subgroup of patients
with node-positive disease at diagnosis, but not for the cohort with node-negative disease. Several issues of
safety (bone fractures, cardiac, and vascular disease as well as changes in blood lipids) require further
study.
The most recent revision of the ASCO Technology Assessment concluded that optimal hormonal therapy for a
postmenopausal woman with ER-positive breast cancer should include an aromatase inhibitor.
For patients at low risk of relapse or with comorbidity raising concern on the safety of aromatase inhibitors,
adjuvant tamoxifen alone remains a reasonable alternative, and may be the only economically viable option
in many situations.
(Continued)

Chapter 5:

Table 5.8

Breast Cancer

91

Adjuvant Systemic Therapies and Some Relevant Treatment Concepts Investigated in Randomized Clinical Trials (Continued)

Treatments

Results and remarks

Adjuvant chemo-endocrine
therapies

•
•
•

High-dose chemotherapy

•
•

Dose-dense chemotherapy

•

Adjuvant trastuzumab

•

The Overview showed that for patients above 50, chemo-endocrine therapy (with tamoxifen) compared with
chemotherapy alone reduced the annual odds of recurrence by 28% and the odds of death by 20%.
Similarly, when compared to tamoxifen alone, the reductions in odds were 26% and 10%, respectively.
Combined chemo-endocrine therapies with tamoxifen and an anthracycline-based regimen yielded better DFS
than endocrine therapy alone in patients with ER-positive tumors. The combination of tamoxifen with
CMF-type regimens was superior to tamoxifen alone in trials using the classical CMF regimen.
Laboratory studies have demonstrated that chemotherapy cell kill was inhibited in the presence of tamoxifen.
Clinical data also suggested a negative interaction between cytotoxics (alkylating agents and 5-fluorouracil)
and tamoxifen, and this issue is still under study. The Intergroup trial 0100, showed the superiority of
sequential over concurrent administration of AC and tamoxifen for postmenopausal women with nodepositive (42% with ≥4 N+), receptor-positive (ER or PgR) disease.
A dose-intense regimen using several drugs on a weekly schedule for 16 weeks was found to significantly
improve DFS and OS when compared to six courses of CAF.
High-dose chemotherapy with peripheral blood progenitor cell or bone marrow support remains
investigational, since definitive results from ongoing clinical trials are not yet available and results from early
trials failed to detect a significant advantage for high-dose chemotherapy.
Another concept recently examined in a large randomized trial is that of dose density. Patients receiving
treatment on a two-weekly rather than a three-weekly schedule to the same total dose showed superior DFS
and OS. These data must be taken into account with the additional cost of the growth factors required when
deciding whether a particular patient should receive chemotherapy in a dose-dense fashion.
Trastuzumab has recently been demonstrated to lead to dramatic improvements in DFS when used in the
adjuvant therapy setting in combination with or following chemotherapy.

Table 5.9 Definition of Risk Categories for Patients with Operated Breast Cancer (Modified from
St. Gallen 2007)
Risk category
Low risk

Intermediate risk

High risk

Node-negative, and all of the following features:
pTa ≤2 cm, and
Grade 1b, and
Absence of extensive peritumoral vascular invasionc, and
ER and/or PR expressed,and
Her-2/neu gene neither overexpressed nor amplified, and
Aged ≥35 years
Node-negative, and at least one of the following features:
pTa >2 cm, or
Grade 2–3b, or
Presence of extensive peritumoral vascular invasion, or
ER and PR absent, or
Her-2/neu gene overexpressed or amplified, or
Aged <35 years
Node-positive (one to three involved nodes), and:
ER and/or PR expressed, and
Her-2/neu gene neither overexpressed nor amplified
Node-positive (one to three involved nodes), and:
ER and PR absent, or
Her-2/neu gene overexpressed or amplified
Node-positive (four or more involved nodes)

a

pT, pathological tumor size (i.e., size of the invasive component).
Histologic and/or nuclear grade.
c
Peritumoral vascular invasion defined intermediate risk for node-negative disease, but did not influence risk category
for node-positive disease.
d
Patients with breast cancer at young age have been shown to be at high risk of relapse.
b

of greater complexity, cost, or toxicity. These more intensive
regimens may be preferred in patients at higher risk.

Specific Chemotherapy Regimens
Cyclophosphamide, Methotrexate, and 5-Fluorouracil (CMF),
Adriamycin and Cyclophosphamide (AC) and Flurouracil, Adriamycin (Epirubicin), and Cyclophosphamide (FAC or FEC). CMF,

with M and F given on days 1 and 8 every four weeks,
and C given orally on days 1–14, was initially the most
widely investigated regimen on which efficacy data were
obtained. It is still considered a proper treatment for
patients with node-negative disease for whom chemotherapy is an appropriate choice (99), especially in conditions
in which doubt has been raised on inferior therapeutic

92

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 5.10

HER-2 negative
HER-2 positive

Choice of Treatment Modalities (Modified from St. Gallen 2007)
Highly endocrine responsive

Incompletely endocrine responsive

Endocrine nonresponsive

ET
(consider adding CT according to risk)
ET + Herceptin + CT

ET
(consider adding CT according to risk)
ET + Herceptin + CT

CT
Herceptin + CT

Abbreviations: ET, endocrine therapy; CT, chemotherapy.

yield. The CMF regimen and an anthracycline-based combination such as doxorubicin (Adriamycin) and cyclophosphamide (AC) are considered to have similar treatment
effects for patients with node-positive disease. Overview
data and individual trials which compared classical CMF
to an anthracycline-based regimen substituting methotrexate
with either epirubicin (CEF) or adriamycin (CAF) showed
an advantage in terms of treatment outcome for the anthracycline-treated patients at the cost of increased toxicity.
During the 2007 St. Gallen meeting, four courses of AC or
six courses of classical CMF were considered acceptable in
patients with highly (but at high risk of relapse) or incompletely endocrine responsive HER-2-negative disease.
Subgroup analyses and data from several trials in
which duration chemotherapy was one of the variables,
indicate that in older premenopausal patients (above the
age of 40) three courses of classical CMF might yield similar
results to six courses (100). Acute toxicity of the CMF regimen includes gastrointestinal side effects, nausea/vomiting,
mucositis, conjunctivitis, diarrhea and, in about 40% of the
patients, alopecia. Toxic effects of anthracyclines include
hematological and mucosal toxicity, nausea/vomiting, alopecia (almost universal), skin pigmentation, and cumulative cardiac toxicity. FAC and FEC (day 1 every 21) are
usually used for six courses. No direct comparison of these
regimens with classical CMF is available. The use of higher
epirubicin dose was associated with a significant improvement of treatment outcome (DFS and OS) among patients
with node-positive breast cancer (101). Subjective toxicity and
objective tolerance are dependent upon treatment duration.
One of the most recent trials designed to test the shorter
versus longer treatment duration of a single chemotherapy
regimen is the French study of FEC for six versus three
courses. Longer treatment appeared more effective; it was
entirely uncertain to which extent this result was due to
the endocrine effects of the longer duration treatment in
this premenopausal population.
CEF (Canadian), CAF (Intergroup), and Tailored FEC. More
intensive anthracycline-based regimens are either used
with drugs delivered on a CMF-like schedule (oral C and
day 1 and 8 administration of i.v. drugs), or in a toxicitytailored fashion. The first type includes the Canadian CEF
(102) and the CAF regimen (95), and both were proven to
be superior to classical CMF. The toxicity-tailored FEC
yielded superior results even when compared to high-dose,
marrow-supported chemotherapy. The use of all these
combinations is associated with a high degree of myelosuppression leading to the use of either prophylactic antibiotics or marrow stimulating growth factors (G-CSF). This
aspect of using cytotoxic combinations with anthracyclines
(plus cyclophosphamide and fluorouracil) with G-CSF led

to a small but significant increase in the incidence of acute
myelogenous leukemia (AML) or myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), their incidence being sharply elevated in
more intense regimens (103,104). These acute leukemia risk
estimates need to be taken into account, especially for
patients with node-negative disease.
Taxanes. Two major trials have examined four courses
of paclitaxel after four cycles of AC, and both showed a
significant improvement in treatment outcome. The U.S.
Intergroup trial accrued 3121 patients and showed that four
courses of paclitaxel after four courses of AC improved
treatment outcome compared with four courses of AC alone.
The five-year DFS and OS were 70% versus 65% and 80%
versus 77%, respectively, differences which were both statistically significant (105). The NSABP B-28 trial had a
similar design and accrued 3059 patients. The five-year
DFS and OS percentages were 76% versus 72%, and 85%
versus 81%, respectively, statistically significant only for
DFS (106). Subgroup analysis, based upon whether the
patients received tamoxifen after chemotherapy or not,
yielded conflicting results and might indicate that the effect
of adding paclitaxel is less evident in patients with tumors
expressing hormone receptors who received tamoxifen
after chemotherapy. The interpretation of these data is
also difficult due to the confounding treatment effects of
different durations. One of the most interesting approaches
to increase the yield of the sequential combination was
through administration of the drugs every two weeks
instead of every three weeks (dose-dense) with the aid of
G-CSF. One U.S. Intergroup trial tested this approach in a
trial, which accrued 2005 patients. The results showed, after
a median follow-up time of 36 months, that dose-dense
treatment improved DFS (RR 0.74; p = 0.010), and OS (RR
0.69; p = 0.013). Four-year DFS was 82% for the dose-dense
regimens and 75% for the standard dose (107). The results
of this trial need confirmation, especially in a comparison
with those regimens proven, in clinical trials, to be more
effective than classical CMF (i.e., CEF or CAF). The combination of docetaxel, adriamycin, and fluorouracil (TAC)
was proven to be superior to FAC (both regimens given
on day 1 every 21 days) in the recent Breast Cancer
International Research Group (BCIRG) trial (98).
Three additional trials failed to show a clear-cut benefit for taxane-based chemotherapy. The MA.21 trial, conducted by the National Cancer Institute of Canada,
compared CEF, AC followed by paclitaxel, and dose-dense
EC followed by paclitaxel in node-positive and high-risk
node-negative women with breast cancer. Results of an
interim analysis showed that recurrence rates were highest
among patients treated with the conventionally timed taxanecontaining regimen (108). The BIG 2-98 trial, conducted in

Chapter 5:

2887 node-positive patients: at five years median follow-up,
a hazard ratio for docetaxel-containing versus nondocetaxelcontaining regimens of borderline significance (109). Finally,
in the TACT (Taxotere as Adjuvant Chemotherapy) trial,
it was established that docetaxel-based sequential chemotherapy overall was not superior to anthracycline-based
therapy of equivalent duration both for disease-free and
overall survival (110).
Several tens of thousands additional women with
operable breast cancer have been included in randomized
clinical trials investigating the role of taxanes that have yet
to report results. The St. Gallen expert consensus meeting
in 2007 concluded that taxane combinations are effective
in the adjuvant setting but especially in cohorts of patients
with endocrine nonresponsive or incompletely responsive
tumors. Exploratory analyses to identify those for whom
the addition of a taxane-containing regimen might be
superfluous has not been attempted. The question on how
best to schedule taxanes seemed to favor weekly administration of paclitaxel, or the three-weekly docetaxel, but
must be best studied within the context of optimal ER,
PgR, and HER-2 determination.

Trastuzumab (Herceptin™)
Her-2/neu overexpression/amplification occurs in approximately 25% of breast cancers and is considered both a
prognostic factor and a therapeutic target for trastuzumab,
a humanized monoclonal antibody directed against the
HER-2/neu protein extracellular domain. Trastuzumab therapy prolongs survival of patients with metastatic HER-2/
neu-overexpressing breast cancer both alone and combined
with chemotherapy. Four large, randomized, clinical trials
and one smaller randomized trial of adjuvant trastuzumab
have been conducted, all reporting an increased DFS and
OS, leading to the FDA approval of trastuzumab in the
adjuvant setting. The NSABP B-31 trial compared four cycles
of AC followed by four cycles of paclitaxel (P) (AC→P,
arm 1) with AC→P plus 52 weeks of trastuzumab (H)
beginning with the first cycle of P (AC→PH, arm 2). The
Intergroup N9831 trial compared four cycles of AC followed
by 12 weekly doses of paclitaxel (AC→P, arm A) with
AC→P followed by 52 weeks of H beginning after P (arm
B) and with AC→P plus 52 weeks of H beginning with the
first P cycle (arm C) (111). The joint statistical analysis
showed 261 events in the control arms (arms 1 and A) and
133 in the investigational arms (arms 2 and C) (HR 0.48;
95% CI 0.39–0.59; p = 2 × 10–12), with an absolute difference
in DFS rate of 12% at three years and 18% at four years.
There was a 33% lower mortality hazard (p = 0.015) with
the addition of trastuzumab. An unplanned comparison
of arms B and C suggested that delayed administration
of trastuzumab may be less effective than concurrent
administration (112).
The Breast International Group (BIG) Herceptin®
Adjuvant (HERA) trial (113) was a multicenter, randomized, controlled trial comparing one year or two years of
trastuzumab given every three weeks with observation in
patients with HER-2/neu-positive early breast cancer who
had completed locoregional therapy and at least four cycles
of neo-/adjuvant chemotherapy. At the first planned interim
analysis comparing one year of trastuzumab versus observation, after a median follow-up of one year, 127 events

Breast Cancer

93

were observed in the trastuzumab group and 220 in the
observation group (HR 0.54; 95% CI 0.43–0.67; p < 0.0001),
with an absolute difference in the DFS rate at two years
of 8.4% (85.8% vs. 77.4%). There were 89 distant recurrences in the trastuzumab group and 171 in the observation
group (HR 0.49; 95% CI 0.38–0.63; p < 0.0001). Overall
survival in the two groups was not significantly different.
After a median follow-up of two years, one year of treatment
with trastuzumab after adjuvant chemotherapy showed a
significant OS benefit: 59 deaths were reported for trastuzumab and 90 in the control group (HR for risk of death
with trastuzumab vs. observation alone, 0.66; 95% CI 0.47–
0.91; p = 0.0115) (114).
The Breast Cancer International Research Group
BCIRG-006 trial compared three arms of adjuvant systemic
therapy in node-positive and node-negative patients whose
tumors had Her-2/neu gene amplification by FISH: (a) AC
followed by trastuzumab plus docetaxel chemotherapy
(A→TH), (b) docetaxel and carboplatin plus trastuzumab
(TCH), and (c) AC followed by docetaxel alone (A→T) as
the control arm. At the interim analysis the risk for disease
recurrence was 51% (95% CI 35–63%) lower in the A→TH
arm (p = 4.8 ×10–7) and 39% (95% CI 21–53%) lower in the
TCH arm (p = 0.00015) (115).
Finally, the Finnish FinHer trial showed a significant
advantage of a short-term administration of adjuvant trastuzumab. Patients were randomized to docetaxel every
three weeks for three doses versus nine weeks of vinorelbine, both combined with weekly trastuzumab for nine
weeks alone in patients with HER-2/neu-positive breast.
All patients subsequently received three cycles of low-dose
FEC. At a median follow-up of three years, the short course
of adjuvant trastuzumab was effective in preventing breast
cancer recurrences (HR, 0.46; p = 0.0078) (116).
In contrast, the French PACS-04 trial failed to show
a benefit for trastuzumab. In this small trial, women aged
<65 years with node-positive early breast cancer were
randomized to six cycles of adjuvant FEC100 (fluorouracil,
epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide) or ED (epirubicin
and docetaxel), and subsequently to observation only or
one year of trastuzumab in case of HER-2-positive
tumors. There was a trend toward efficacy of trastuzumab
during the first 18 months, however at the four-year
evaluation no significant differences in DFS and OS were
observed between the trastuzumab and the observation
arms (117).

Ovarian Ablation and Ovarian Endocrine
Function Suppression
For premenopausal women with endocrine responsive disease, ovarian function suppression (with goserelin) with or
without tamoxifen appeared to be at least as effective as
CMF chemotherapy alone. The addition of tamoxifen to
goserelin is more effective than goserelin alone at least in
the presence of chemotherapy (118). The sequential use of
goserelin following CMF appeared better than either
modality alone in patients with node-negative disease, at
least in subset analyses for women with ER-positive breast
cancer and those younger than 40 years (119). Bilateral
oophorectomy followed by tamoxifen was effective among
patients with tumors overexpressing HER-2 compared with
no adjuvant therapy (120).

94

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Aromatase Inhibitors in Postmenopausal Patients

Treatment of Elderly Patients

Inhibition of aromatase is an important approach for reducing growth stimulatory effects of oestrogens in postmenopausal women with hormone-dependent breast cancer. The
new generation of aromatase inhibitors has shown an
acceptable toxicity profile and three molecules have been
studied in the adjuvant setting (121). The Arimidex, Tamoxifen,
Alone or in Combination (ATAC) trial compared five years
of tamoxifen, five years of anastrozole, or five years of both
agents given in combination. A significantly improved
DFS, time to recurrence (TTR), and time to distant recurrence (TDR) was shown for anastrozole over tamoxifen
with a similar OS, the absolute difference in four-year DFS
being 2.4% (86.9% with anastrozole vs. 84.5% with tamoxifen) (122,123). At a median follow-up of 100 months, the
significant advantage for anastrozole over tamoxifen for
DFS (HR 0.85; 95% CI 0.76, 0.94; p = 0.003), TTR (HR 0.77;
95% CI 0.67, 0.88; p = 0.0001), TDR (HR 0.84; 95% CI
0.72–0.98; p = 0.027), and CLBC (OR 0.6; 95% CI 0.42, 0.85;
p = 0.004) was maintained. Absolute differences for anastrozole and tamoxifen increased over time (TTR 2.7% at
five years and 4% at nine years). Breast cancer deaths were
nonsignificantly fewer with anastrozole than tamoxifen but
there was no difference in OS (124).
The BIG 1–98 trial compared five years of letrozole,
five years of tamoxifen, two years of tamoxifen followed
by three years of letrozole, or two years of letrozole followed by three years of tamoxifen. The first analysis was
conducted comparing five years of either tamoxifen or letrozole: after a median follow-up of 51 months, DFS favored
letrozole over tamoxifen, with significant benefits to letrozole for TTR and TDR, but with no significant benefit to
OS. The absolute difference in four-year DFS was 2.9%
(87.5% in the letrozole group, 84.6% in the tamoxifen group)
(125,126). The IES study randomized women who had completed 2–3 years of tamoxifen to receive exemestane or
further tamoxifen for a total of five years of treatment. At
55.7 months median follow-up, the trial showed an improvement in DFS but no significant difference in OS with
exemestane. Time to contralateral breast cancer (HR 0.57,
95% CI 0.33–0.98) TTR (HR 0.70, 95% CI 0.58–0.83), and
TDR (HR 0.83, 95% CI 0.71–0.99) were also significantly
improved with exemestane (127,128).
The National Cancer Institute of Canada MA.17 trial
randomized 5187 postmenopausal women who had completed approximately five years of tamoxifen to receive five
years of letrozole or five years of placebo. At 30 months
median follow-up, women who received letrozole after five
years of tamoxifen experienced significantly longer DFS but
not OS. Subgroup analyses revealed an OS benefit with letrozole in the node-positive group (HR 0.61; 95% CI 0.38–0.98;
p = 0.04) and in those who received more than five years of
tamoxifen (HR 0.56; 95% CI 0.33–0.97, p = 0.04) (129).
Given the positive results of aromatase inhibitors
given either upfront, sequentially, or as an extended treatment, the latest ASCO Technology Assessment report suggests that the “optimal adjuvant hormonal therapy for a
postmenopausal woman with receptor-positive breast cancer should include an aromatase inhibitor either as initial
therapy or after treatment with tamoxifen. Of course,
women with breast cancer and their physicians must weigh
the risks and benefits of all therapeutic options.”

About 50% of all newly diagnosed breast cancers occur
in women over 65 years. Comorbid conditions and compromised functional status contribute to the tendency to
exclude elderly women from randomized clinical trials.
Adjuvant therapies for elderly patients are therefore
extrapolated from results of trials conducted in a younger
population, and tamoxifen or cytotoxics, if suitable, should
therefore be considered depending upon the woman’s
physiological age and psychological needs. The chance of
obtaining long-term benefit from adjuvant therapies is limited as a result of the shorter life expectancy. Elderly
women, however, do as well as younger patients for locally
and regionally confined disease stages, but have a worse
prognosis in metastatic disease. Adjuvant treatments might
thus yield a long enough time period without symptoms
of relapse and toxicity of treatments.
Results from the CALGB/CTSU 49907 trial, which compared capecitabine versus either AC or CMF in elderly breast
cancer patients, have been recently presented. After a median
follow-up of two years, patients randomized to capecitabine
were 2.4 (95% CI 1.5–3.8) times more likely to experience an
relapse free survival (RFS) event (p = 0.0003) and 2.1 (95% CI
1.2–3.7) times more likely to die (p = 0.02) (130).

Treatment of Male Breast Cancer
The incidence of male breast cancer is <1% of that for
women and its presentation usually requires a modified
radical mastectomy for local control because of involvement of the pectoralis muscle fascia. Lymph node involvement and ER status (positive in about 85% of the cases)
have prognostic relevance similar to that of female breast
cancer (131). Hormonal ablative therapy is associated with
a 50–60% response rate in advanced disease, but no reports
are available on adjuvant use. Tamoxifen is considered the
first choice both in advanced disease and adjuvant setting,
but as for antiandrogens, gonadotropin-releasing hormone
(GnRH) analogues, and oestrogens, which are also effective
in advanced disease, no information is available on its
efficacy to reduce relapse and prolong survival. The use of
aromatase inhibitors in patients with gonadal suppression
is probably effective too, but information, mainly related
to aminoglutethimide, is scarce. Adjuvant therapies (chemotherapy followed by tamoxifen, or tamoxifen alone) are
usually prescribed extrapolating results from breast cancer
trials in women. Radiation therapy to the chest wall and
regional node sites is often delivered due to higher risk of
local recurrence.

Quality-of-Life Considerations
and Adjuvant Therapies
The burden of side effects of adjuvant systemic treatments
has been considered by patients and physicians to be overwhelming. However, very few clinical trials focused on
quality-of-life aspects of adjuvant treatments. Typically
benefits in clinical trials are described in terms of DFS and
OS. Quality-of-life aspects were, however, considered using
two different approaches:
• Measuring patient perceptions of a specific quality-oflife-related item (e.g., perception of well-being, sensation

Chapter 5:

of nausea, or tiredness) at a given time. It has been
shown that the effect of cytotoxic treatments is transient
and minor compared to patients’ adaptation following
diagnosis and surgery for breast cancer.
• Comparing two treatments (used in the trial by random
allocation) which differ from each other substantially
in terms of objective or subjective toxicity, and in terms
of freedom from relapse. Comparisons are based upon
the estimation of the time spent without symptoms of
recurrent disease and toxic effects of therapy (TWiST)
(132). Periods of time with symptoms of disease or toxic
effects of treatment can be downweighted according to
patient’s perceptions allowing an estimation of qualityadjusted TWiST (Q-TWiST). This avoids methodological difficulties related to measurement of health states
or perceptions of quality of life, focusing upon comparison of time periods which allow a personal interpretation for each individual patient.
• Patient preferences for adjuvant treatment assessed
through her own perception on how much benefit from
the treatment experienced in the past, makes the treatment worthwhile (trade-off: benefit in terms of improved
prognosis paid for with a burden of side effects). Despite
methodological difficulties (patients tend to justify their
past treatment), patients indicated a large acceptance for
a small potential benefit.

Breast Cancer

95

survival rates varying from 0% to 36%. Prognosis is worse
for patients with inflammatory breast cancer (five-year
probability of being alive about 30%) than with locally
advanced breast cancer (five-year probability of being alive
more than 70%; log-rank test, p < 0.0001). The treatment
strategy includes primary chemotherapy, surgery (if feasible), and radiation therapy, leading to some improvement
in outcome. High-dose chemotherapy (with or without
colony-stimulating factors and bone marrow or peripheral
committed precursors of blood cell support), or a doseintense treatment with continuous or weekly drug administrations yielded a significant tumor regression in a large
proportion of patients. Intensive systemic treatments are
usually considered for patients with inflammatory breast
cancer. In a large randomized trial a comparison between
a dose-dense regimen with EC (plus G-CSF) and a CEF
combination chemotherapy (with antibiotics), yielded similar
results (133). Patients with a slow-growing, locally advanced
breast cancer might obtain significant benefit, in terms of
control of disease, from systemic endocrine therapy, radiation therapy, and low-dose chemotherapy. Weekly anthracyclines as well as continuous infusion fluorouracil
regimens were used. The choice of treatment should thus
take into account several factors indicative of tumor aggressiveness (i.e., history of growth, proliferation markers) and
potential endocrine responsiveness. Assessment of responsiveness to preoperative therapy may in the future be
useful in selection of postoperative adjuvant therapy.

Patterns of Relapse After Adjuvant Systemic
Therapy and Response to “Salvage Treatment”
Patients who relapse during or soon after adjuvant systemic
therapy (within 6–12 months of its cessation) tend not to
respond to a similar systemic therapy used in the adjuvant
setting, and have a dire prognosis. In contrast, patients
who develop metastases long after cessation of adjuvant
treatment tend to have an excellent response, especially if
the sites of recurrent disease are local, regional, or in soft
tissues. Prognosis after adjuvant systemic therapy is dependent upon several factors, including site of relapse, time
interval between diagnosis and appearance of metastatic
disease, and several other tumor and host-related features
such as ER. Current new technology, based on geneexpression profiles, might be very useful in defining prognosis, patterns of response to available treatments. Some
information exists on the fact that genes involved in cell
cycle, DNA replication, and chromosomal stability are consistently elevated in the various poor prognostic groups of
patients. The consistent biological and clinical associations
with gene-expression profiles might be helpful for tailoring
new therapies.

Preoperative Therapy
The term “locally advanced breast cancer” refers to disease
stages presenting as infiltration of the underlying muscles
in the presence of a large primary tumor (T3b), extensive
edema of the skin over the breast, skin ulceration, inflammatory cancer of the breast, satellite nodes on the skin, fixed
axillary nodes, parasternal nodes, and edema of the arm.
Some of the patients who present with locally advanced
disease might have a slow growing neoplasia, but most
patients have a very aggressive disease, with five-year

Treatment of Metastatic Disease
Overt metastases indicate a chronic, incurable disease. Treatments are defined by their efficacy to provide palliation.
An important feature influencing treatment choice relates
to the heterogeneous course of the disease, with survival
varying from a few weeks to more than 10 years. Overall,
median duration of survival exceeds two years. Thus, the
choice of treatment should account for extent of the disease, related symptoms, and estimation of survival, aiming
to increase the total duration of the time with no/few
disease-related symptoms, with lowest costs in terms of side
effects. Systemic therapies, radiation, or surgery should be
discussed for this purpose in a multidisciplinary setting.
The choice of treatment should also take into consideration certain indicators of aggressiveness of the disease
and predictors of response. Shorter DFS, low/no ER expression in tumor cells, multiple organ involvement, and a
short time interval from completion of previous adjuvant
therapy are indicators of aggressive disease and short survival. Host-related factors (performance status) also influence the prognosis being associated with lower response
rates and shorter duration of response.
The subjective attitude of the patient and the physician toward systemic treatment is one of the major factors
that influence choice and acceptance of a therapeutic program, but only a few studies took such factors into consideration. Personal preference and considerations about
quality of life, rather than data from clinical trials, should
guide the treatment choice. Time to expected response to
treatment is also a feature that may influence the choice
of therapy: endocrine manipulations require an average
of 6–12 weeks, whereas chemotherapy might influence

96

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

ER and/or PgR +
any Her2

ER unknown

ER and PgR –
Her2–

Long DFI

Short DFI

Soft
tissue
or bone

Bulky
disease

Response
to
previous
ET

No
response
to
previous
ET

ER and PgR –
Her2 +

No recent
ET
Her2
negative

Endocrine
therapy
RR = 30–60%

Chemotherapy
RR = 40–70%
(+ biological agents)

disease symptoms within a shorter time. An algorithm
which accounts for several features may aid the selection
of the type of initial systemic therapy for patients with
metastatic disease (Fig. 5.3).
The question of whether asymptomatic patients with
metastatic disease should receive immediate systemic therapy upon detection of metastatic spread is a matter of
controversy: treatment is usually offered immediately after
diagnosis of metastases, attempting to defer the appearance
of symptoms.
Before starting systemic therapy it is important to
evaluate, with the least bothersome diagnostic method
available (e.g., radiological assessment to sites of bone pain,
assessment of single hepatic lesions by ultrasonography,
etc.), most measurable sites of disease, providing the basis
for an accurate evaluation of response. The use of tumor
markers such as CEA or CA15-3 is valuable only within the
context of the clinical situation. The usefulness of assessing
objective responses in advanced breast cancer is controversial. Although objective response obtained by chemotherapy is associated with subjective palliation, many patients
with stable disease, and even 33% of patients with progressive disease, experience significant pain relief. Measurable
objective response is an important tool for assessing the
effectiveness of antineoplastic drugs. It is, however, the
evaluation of the impact of therapy upon the patients’
quality of life, through the definition of symptom relief,
drugs side effects, anxiety and depression, personal relations, physical performance, sense of well-being, and efforts
to cope with the disease, which determines its usefulness.

Endocrine Therapy for Metastatic Disease
Endocrine treatments are usually well tolerated, enhancing their acceptability as a therapeutic option. In general,

Trastuzumab +
chemotherapy
RR = 40–80%

Figure 5.3 Algorithm of features (predictive factors) used for selection of type of initial systemic therapy for patients with
metastatic disease. Abbreviations: ER, estrogen receptor; PgR, progesterone receptor; ET,
endocrine therapy; DFI, disease free interval;
RR, response rate.

endocrine therapies are offered to a patient with metastatic
disease knowing that:
• About one-third of an unselected patient population is
likely to respond to endocrine (or hormone) therapy;
median duration of response is 8–14 months. Chances
of response are higher when the tumor is rich in ER
(50–60% response rate). Responses are more likely to
occur in patients with prolonged DFS, with metastatic
presentation of soft tissue or bone alone.
• Response to one endocrine therapy predicts a higher
chance of effectiveness with subsequent hormonal
manipulations.
• Discontinuation of an endocrine therapy such as estrogens, progestins, and tamoxifen at the time of disease
progression (usually after a response) might induce a
subsequent response. The mechanism for this withdrawal response phenomenon is not clearly understood.
• Starting of some hormonal manipulations may be accompanied by an exacerbation of cancer-related symptoms
(flare). This might appear within hours or days, and last
for several days or weeks. Flare might be associated
with an increase of serum tumor markers, alkaline phosphatase, and hypercalcaemia. The incidence of this phenomenon is between 3% and 9%, and is likely to be
followed by an objective response to therapy. Flare has
been observed after the start of therapy with estrogens,
tamoxifen, androgens, and progestins, but has been
only anecdotally suspected after aromatase inhibitors.
Endocrine therapies have developed to encompass
several types of endocrine-related mechanisms of controlling
tumor growth and proliferation. Many of the mechanisms
are related to suppression of estrogens or estrogen-mediated
growth stimulation. Other pathways for cytostatic and

Chapter 5:

cytocidal activity include direct cytotoxicity on tumor cells
and growth factor-mediated effect (e.g., inducing expression of transforming growth factor TGF-beta, reducing
expression of insulin-like growth factor I or IGF-I).
Response to endocrine treatments is mostly predicted by
the concentration of steroid hormone receptors, which
determination depends upon several tumor and patientrelated factors: sampling method, tumor cellularity, organ
site of the neoplastic tissue, sex, menopausal status, day of
cycle (for premenopausal women), pregnancy and lactation, and drug administration (e.g., steroid hormones). The
method of determination is crucial for identifying overexpression of estrogen and progesterone receptors (ER and
PgR): ligand-binding assay (LBA), which was historically
first developed for commercial use, does not identify all
endocrine responsive tumors, and currently immunohistochemical (IHC) method is recommended. ER and PgR
overexpression in more than 1% of the tumor cells confers
some endocrine responsiveness to the tumor (134).
Table 5.11 displays the summary data on endocrine
treatments. Ovarian ablation for premenopausal women with
breast cancer remains a relevant treatment option, especially if added to tamoxifen (135). Other forms of surgical
endocrine ablation, adrenalectomy and hypophysectomy,
were abandoned in the mid-1980s. Although estrogens and
androgens are still used by some as a tertiary endocrine
treatment, their relatively frequent toxic effects led to their
substitution with less toxic compounds.
The most widely used endocrine therapy is tamoxifen. The drug binds by competition to the estradiol receptor, altering the effects of the receptor-hormone complex
and resulting in reduced proliferation and growth. An
additional mechanism of growth inhibition was ascribed

Table 5.11

Breast Cancer

97

to tamoxifen-induced TGF-beta production. In recent years
use of aromatase inhibitors in postmenopausal patients
has significantly increased. For premenopausal patients
standard endocrine treatments includes ovarian function
suppression plus tamoxifen. The question of whether for
postmenopausal patients aromatase inhibitors should be
considered the primary endocrine therapy or should it be
tamoxifen with the alternative drug being given subsequently, if indicated, has been a matter of debate, but starting with an aromatase inhibitor might represent the most
relevant choice. The optimal sequence of endocrine therapy
for postmenopausal women will have to await further
research. HER-2/neu overexpression may predict response to
endocrine therapy with nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitors.
Tamoxifen is usually administered in the daily dose
of 20 mg. Its half-life after a continuous administration
exceeds 200 hr, and blood levels remain detectable for
6–12 weeks after treatment ends. Tamoxifen is a relatively
nontoxic treatment, and its chronic use, mainly in the adjuvant setting, has been associated with certain rare side
effects. Thrombophlebitis has been observed in 13% of the
patients. Some protective effect upon postmenopausalassociated bone loss as a result of its oestrogenic effect
on some target tissues was also described. Long-term use
of tamoxifen has been reported to be associated with an
increased incidence of endometrial cancer (two- to fourfold). Other antiestrogens with different toxicity profile,
different pharmacokinetics or biological effects are currently being tested (Table 5.11).
Aromatase inhibitors have been extensively developed
in recent years. These compounds block steroid hydroxylation and cleavage enzymes, causing a deficient production
of estrogens in peripheral tissues (those less selective inhibit

Endocrine Treatments Tested in Trials of Advanced Breast Cancer

Therapy

Menopausal
status

Response
rate (%)

Range (%)

Remarks on treatment results

Oophorectomy

Pre

35

12–55

Adrenalectomy
Hypophysectomy

Post

32
36

23–46
22–58

Estrogens

Post

26

15–38

Androgens
Tamoxifen
Tamoxifen
Tam withdrawal
Toremifene
Faslodex
Progestins

Post
Post
Pre

21
32
30
8
29
20
30

10–38
16–52
20–45

32

16–43

36

32–45

12
10
3–5

–
–
–

In ER+ selected patients response rate might exceed 50%; more effective in women
over 35 years of age
In series of patients with ER+ tumors response rate was over 60%
Until the 1980s also used for pain relief which was obtained in 70% of the
patients—unrelated to endocrine mediated tumor response
Mainly diethylstilbestrol (DES). During the last decade used in trials evaluating
recruitment of cancer cells preceding cytotoxics
Fluoxymestrone tested until recently with cytotoxics or as single endocrine agent
Most widely used endocrine agent
Some trials in premenopausal patients used a dose of 40–120 mg/day
22% stable disease
Toremifene: similar to tamoxifen. Only 5% response rate in tamoxifen-refractory tumors
Estrogen Receptor Downregulators (Fulvestrant)
Medroxyprogesteron acetate
Megestrol acetate
Exemestane (FCE 24304) (type I)
Fadrozole (CGS 16949A) (type II)
Letrozole (CGS 20267) (type II)
Anastrozole (ZD1033) (type II)
Buserelin
Goserelin
Leuprolide
D-Trp-6 GnRH analog
RU486; other antiprogestins for potential testing: Org31806 and ZK112993
Mifepristone
Cyproterone; Flutamide, OH-Flutamide

Post

Aromatase inhibitors

GnRH analogs

Antiprogestins
Antiprogestins
Antiandrogens

Pre

17–20
9–67

98

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

steroidogenesis in the adrenal glands too). In trials for
patients with advanced and endocrine responsive disease,
use of either anastrozole or letrozole has been shown to
yield some advantage in terms of treatment outcome as
compared to tamoxifen (136,137). Anastrozole and letrozole
were compared, in postmenopausal patients with advanced
disease, to progestins, demonstrating similar or superior
efficacy and a favorable toxicity profile. Between steroidal
aromatase inhibitors, exemestane may be considered a treatment option. Use of ovarian suppression with aromatase
inhibitors has been only marginally investigated.
Progestins are an effective therapy in metastatic breast
cancer. Their effectiveness is related to a receptor-mediated
mechanism, as well as via interference in the pituitary–
ovarian and the pituitary–adrenal axes (138). The largest
therapeutic effect is obtained with high doses. Side effects
include mainly weight gain, water retention, and other toxicities related to some glucocorticoid effects of these compounds. High-dose progestins may follow as a third line
treatment, or find indication if some of the side effects of
these drugs on appetite and mood are desirable.
Fulvestrant is an ER antagonist, which has no known
agonist (estrogenic) effect and downregulates the ER protein. In two Phase III clinical trials fulvestrant was as effective and as equally well tolerated as anastrozole for the
treatment of postmenopausal women with advanced and
metastatic breast cancer (139,140). In retrospective analyses,
mean duration of response was significantly greater for
fulvestrant compared with anastrozole. Fulvestrant may
offer certain benefits compared with daily oral dosing
regimens, as the injection is given monthly.
Corticosteroids induce responses in breast cancer. In a
study by Minton et al. (141), objective responses to prednisolone were seen in 14% of patients, and 21% achieved stable
disease for at least six months. Corticosteroids provide palliation, especially for bone pain and dyspnea, and are therefore particularly useful for terminal care. Side effects related
to chronic administration are difficult to control and include
cushingoid appearance, diabetes mellitus, water retention,
atrophic changes of the skin and vessels, gastric and duodenal bleeding with or without ulcers, and osteoporosis.
Analogues of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone
(LHRH) show a significant antineoplastic activity, especially in premenopausal women. Their use has significantly
reduced surgical ovarian ablation. These analogues of the
decapeptide that is intermittently secreted in regular pulses
by the hypothalamus cause release of LH and FSH (luteinizing and follicle-stimulating hormones) until exhaustion
inducing the suppression of endocrine ovarian function and
a lowering in estradiol. Use of these compounds is associated with minimal toxic effects, partially related to their
parenteral route of administration. Amenorrhea occurs on
average within 40 days and menses resume usually within
80 days of cessation of therapy.
Estrogens are rarely used today because of their side
effects (nausea/vomiting, water retention, and cardiovascular damage). They are still rarely used as a fourthline
hormonal therapy in older patients with no cardiovascular
contraindications. Available compounds are diethylstilboestrol (5 mg, three times daily), ethinyl estradiol (1 mg, three
times daily), or Premarin (2.5 mg, three times daily). Withdrawal response is estimated to occur in one-third of the
patients who progress after therapy with oestrogens.

Androgen therapy may lead to significant palliation
despite some undesired side effects, which are only partially
reversible: masculinization, hoarseness, hirsutism, a masculinelike boldness, acne, and seborrhea. The most used
compound is fluoxymesterone acetate (30 mg/day). The
use of the compound, which does not cause water retention, may have an indication in elderly women with congestive heart failure.
Combinations of endocrine therapies were tested in
several clinical trials, the results of which are not conclusive. Combinations of endocrine therapies (as opposed to
their sequential use) are still being investigated.

Chemotherapy for Metastatic Disease
Cytotoxic agents are usually used for all patients whose
aggressive disease requires a fast objective tumor regression. Overall response rates to chemotherapy are reported
to range from 40% to 90%, with complete responses
in 5–10%. The median time to maximal response varies
between 7 and 14 weeks (maximum 16 months). The
median duration of response to chemotherapy ranges from
6 to 12 months. Some patients are described as having been
in response for more than a decade. Whether the use of
chemotherapy also prolongs survival is a matter of controversy. It is postulated that some improvement in OS is
limited to patients with aggressive tumors, as opposed to
those with less rapidly progressive disease. The most significant factor related to improvement of survival, as well
as of quality of life, is response to treatment.
Factors that predict a high response rate are the
following: good performance status; single or two sites of
metastatic disease, especially in soft tissue; prior hormonal
therapy; high proliferation index (limited evidence).
Factors that predict a longer duration of response
and survival are good performance status; single or two
sites of disease, especially in soft tissue and nodular lung
metastases; prior endocrine therapy, or response to endocrine manipulations.
Factors predictive for a decreased chance of response
and for shorter duration of response and survival are prior
chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy, bone and visceral
metastases, low blood lymphocyte counts. Age, menopausal
status, and steroid hormone receptor status do not influence
response rate or duration of response to chemotherapy.
The most frequently used drugs include cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil, epirubicin (all used in first-line regimens), paclitaxel, docetaxel,
vinorelbine, mitomycin C, and mitoxantrone. Table 5.12
displays the summary results of several Phase II trials,
which defined the objective response rates to various agents
usually employed for metastatic disease (the first group in
Table 5.12). Several agents were found to be active in the
treatment of the disease but did not enter the current armamentarium of compounds used in current therapies (the
second group in Table 5.12).
Combination of cytotoxics demonstrated a higher
response rate in the majority of the trials as compared
with a single agent. The overall yield of a combination,
compared with the same drugs given sequentially, is, however, still controversial, especially when the most effective
compounds are used (142). The population with liver and
lung metastases (i.e., disease sites with a dire prognosis

Chapter 5:

Table 5.12

Breast Cancer

99

List of Cytotoxic Agents and Data on Effectiveness in Metastatic Breast Cancer

Agent

Chlorambucil
Capecitabine
CBDCA
Cyclophosphamide
Doxorubicin (adriamycin)
4-Epiadriamycin
Etoposide (oral)
Gemcitabine
Liposomal Doxorubicin
Mitoxantrone
5-Fluorouracil
Melphalan
Methotrexate
MitomycinC
Platinum
Taxol (paclitaxel)
Taxotere (docetaxel)
Thiotepa
Vinblastine
Vincristin
Vinorelbine

Remission rate
overall %

Remission rate
pretreated %

Remission rate not
pretreated, not heavily
pretreated %

17
25
15
33
32
39
27
26
30
21
27
20
28
22
21
56
67
29
21
19
35

–
20
4
22
29
33
22
18
26
7
15
4
17
22
8
48
–
–
0
10
20

–
36
35
36
43
71
35
37
43
27
28
25
26
–
52
62
67
25
–
8
50

resulting from rapid progression) might benefit when
treated with the combination. On the other hand, the
sequential use of single agents had some advantages for
less aggressive disease presentations such as soft tissue and
bone metastases. A cooperative study randomized patients
to receive paclitaxel and doxorubicin both given as a combination and sequentially. Although response rate and
time-to-progression were both better for the combination,
survival was the same in both groups (143). The rate of
disease progression, the presence or absence of comorbid
medical conditions, and physician/patient preference influence the choice of therapy in individual patients. No present data support the superiority of any particular regimen.
Sequential use of single agents or combinations can be
used for patients who relapse.
The use of doxorubicin-containing regimens was associated in some trials with higher response rates when compared with cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil,
or CMF-type combinations. The search for new anthracyclines with less cardiac toxicity was not entirely successful.
Compared with doxorubicin 4-epidoxorubicin showed limited evidence of improved therapeutic index. Liposomal
doxorubicin as a single agent yielded similar results to doxorubicin with some lesser cardiological side effects (144).
Taxanes and vinorelbine were shown to be very effective for patients with advanced breast cancer.
Their role in the treatment of advanced disease is
increasingly important, alone and in combination with
anthracyclines (taxanes), and 5-fluorouracil (vinorelbine).
These compounds are also increasingly investigated in the
adjuvant setting.
An increasing number of new taxanes are being developed in an attempt to overcome resistance to existing members of the class by possibly enhancing intracellular levels.
Nanoparticle albumin-bound paclitaxel (nab-paclitaxel,
abraxane) may enhance delivery to tumor tissues. The drug

demonstrated a favorable safety profile and a greater efficacy
than paclitaxel in a phase III trial in metastatic breast cancer.
Continuous infusions of cytotoxic drugs, such as
doxorubicin and low-dose 5-fluorouracil were described to
be less toxic and have a significant antitumor activity even
in pretreated patients. The combination of continuous infusion 5-fluorouracil together with anthracyclines and cisplatin was found to be a very effective treatment. The
combination of 5-fluorouracil with folinic acid (leucovorin)
(which enhances the inhibition of fluoro-pyrimidines on
thymidylate synthase) was shown to be effective even for
tumors resistant to a 5-fluorouracil combination. Severe
mucous toxicity should still lead to a better definition of
the feasibility of this use of the drug.
Increased attention to patient’s quality of life favored
the development of oral chemotherapy. Capecitabine is an
orally administered fluoropyrimidine carbamate recently
used for the treatment of pretreated breast cancer. Capecitabine is metabolized via a three-step process to the active
agent fluorouracil preferentially in malignant tissue. In
patients with paclitaxel-refractory breast cancer receiving
capecitabine the objective tumor response rate was about
20%. In previously untreated patients with breast cancer,
the response rate was higher. Side effects were generally
gastrointestinal or hematological. Other commonly reported
events included hand-and-foot syndrome, fatigue, hyperbilirubinemia, dermatitis, and anorexia. Continuous oral
administration of etoposide was defined as effective in
inducing significant objective responses.
The term “metronomic” chemotherapy refers to frequent administration of chemotherapeutics at doses significantly below the maximum tolerated dose, with no
prolonged drug-free breaks (145). Beside the cytotoxic
effect, metronomic chemotherapy exerts an antiangiogenic
activity (146). In two trials, the administration of oral
cyclophosphamide (50 mg daily) and oral methotrexate

100

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

(2.5 mg twice daily two days per week) induced a response
rate of 19% and a 32% rate of clinical benefit, and was well
tolerated (147,148).

Trastuzumab (Herceptin)
Approximately 25% of breast cancers overexpress HER-2/
neu. Trastuzumab (Herceptin) is a humanized monoclonal
antibody that binds to the HER2/neu receptor. In patients
previously treated with chemotherapy whose tumors overexpress HER-2/neu, administration of Herceptin as a single agent resulted in a response rate of 21% (149). Responses
are confined to patients with HER-2 overexpression (IHC 3+)
or amplification (FISH) (150). In a prospective trial, patients
treated with chemotherapy (doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide or paclitaxel) plus Herceptin had an OS advantage
as compared to those receiving chemotherapy alone (151).
When combined with doxorubicin, Herceptin is associated
with significant cardiac toxicity. Activity was shown in
combination with vinorelbine, docetaxel, or cisplatin. Consequently, patients with HER-2/neu overexpressing metastatic breast cancer are candidates for treatment with the
combination of Herceptin and chemotherapy.

New Agents
Lapatinib, a small molecule inhibiting tyrosine kinases associated with HER-2, has shown significant efficacy (together
with capecitabine) in advanced breast cancer after failure of
trastuzumab, and is being tested in the adjuvant setting.
Antibody-targeted therapy may be used to deliver
cytotoxic agents specifically to antigen-expressing tumors.
Trastuzumab linked to DM1 (a microtubule-depolymerizing
agents) displays superior activity compared with unconjugated trastuzumab while maintaining selectivity for HER2-overexpressing tumor cells; the drug is undergoing clinical
development.
Other new agents have been developed with the aim
of blocking both HER-1 and HER-2 receptors. Pertuzumab
is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody that binds
to the HER-2 receptor, blocking heterodimerization of
HER-2 with EGFR and ErbB-3 and inhibiting intracellular
signaling. As a single therapy it showed a limited activity,
however its combination with trastuzumab after progression on combination therapy with the latter showed an
ORR of 18%.
Tanespimycin is a heat shock protein 90 inhibitor
(17-AAG; KOS-953). It was administered in combination
with trastuzumab in a Phase I trial showing antitumor
activity in patients with HER-2+ breast cancer whose tumors
have progressed during treatment with trastuzumab.
Bevacizumab, a monoclonal antibody against VEGF,
has shown efficacy when combined with capecitabine and
taxanes in advanced breast cancer. Combination of bevacizumab with trastuzumab as well as of Bevacizumab plus a
metronomic chemotherapy has shown efficacy in metastatic
disease.

Dose-Response in Metastatic Breast Cancer
High-dose chemotherapy is more effective in inducing
responses, but its effect on survival is a subject of controversy. Comparative studies carried out without hemopoietic growth factors failed to show a survival advantage of
this form of therapy when compared with standard dose

cytotoxics. Although high-dose combination regimens, followed by autologous bone marrow re-infusion or peripheral blood progenitor cell support, showed a significant
rate of complete remissions, many patients relapse and die
of the disease. A study comparing high-dose chemotherapy
with stem cell support to conventional maintenance chemotherapy in patients with metastatic disease indicates no
overall or relapse-free survival benefit for patients receiving high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell support (152).
Thus, the use of this modality for advanced breast cancer
is still under investigation.

Combined Cytotoxics and Hormone Therapies
Combined cytotoxic drugs and endocrine therapies have
theoretically an additive effect. The assumption that each
might have a distinct cytocidal effect on the two target
clones, and the evidence that the spectrum of their toxicities
is different, represent the reasons for their combined use.
The sequential administration in postmenopausal patients
of endocrine therapy first, and then chemotherapy upon
demonstrated resistance to endocrine agents confers an
advantage, especially in patients with slow-growing tumors.
Young patients with aggressive disease presentation are
likely to benefit from the concomitant combination of both
modalities, although this approach is not generally accepted.
The current tendency is to use the modalities separately, and
to reserve the combined treatment as a salvage regimen.

Secondary Treatments and Salvage Regimens
After exhaustion of initial response, most patients with
advanced disease require renewed palliation. For patients
who have previously received doxorubicin, this drug is useful
in about 30%, and the median remission duration is about
six months. Several other cytotoxics, such as taxanes (paclitaxel and docetaxel), continuous infusion of 5-fluorouracil,
vinorelbine, mitomycin C, and the combination of platinum
with etoposide, were all shown to have significant efficacy
in providing palliation as secondary treatments.

Duration of Treatment with Chemotherapy
Although it is reasonable to continue hormone therapy until
relapse, the optimal duration of chemotherapy is unknown.
The optimal treatment duration for patients with responsive or stable disease has been studied by several groups.
For patients who attain a complete response to initial
therapy, randomized trials have shown a prolonged DFS
from immediate treatment with a different chemotherapy
regimen compared to observation with treatment upon
relapse (153). However, neither of these studies showed an
improvement in OS for patients who received immediate
treatment, and, in one of these studies, survival was actually worse in the immediately treated group. Similarly, no
difference in survival was noted when patients with partial
response or stable disease after initial therapy were randomized to receive either a different chemotherapy versus
observation (154) or a different chemotherapy regimen
given at higher versus lower doses (155). The potential role
for some form of maintenance cytotoxic treatment, as well
as the use of an endocrine agent for such role (therapeutic
attitude shared by many) is likely to be useful but remains
unknown.

Chapter 5:

Table 5.13

Breast Cancer

101

Issues Related to the Therapy of Specific Sites of Metastatic Disease

Site (reference)

Accepted therapy

Breast recurrence in the conserved
breast
Local recurrence/Scar alone after
Mastectomy

“Secondary” breast conservation surgery, if possible, or
Consider adjuvant treatment using the same
mastectomy.
criteria as for primary.
Surgery, if circumscribed. RT provides control in about half of Role of radical surgery or other techniques of
patients. Significant response rates with systemic therapy
local disease control. One trial demonstrated
(62–85%), which may test sensitivity to treatment.
positive role of adjuvant tamoxifen in ER+
disease. Role of adjuvant CT uncertain.
Usually as a new primary.
Adjuvant systemic therapy.
Systemic therapy. RT for localized pain (on average more
Routine use of bisphosphonates for reducing
effective than systemic therapy in providing palliation).
osteolytic process and for prevention of
Surgery might be considered for weight-bearing and
fractures.
functionally important structures.
High-dose steroids and RT. Surgery for uncertain or
Combined systemic ± RT for selected patients.
accessible single metastases.
High-dose CT.
High-dose dexamethasone (given even before imaging).
Combination systemic therapy + RT.
Radiation therapy if no bone instability or fractures.
Surgery if bony instability or fracture; followed by RT.
RT. Systemic therapy (improvement in 80–90%).
Intrathecal methotrexate, thiotepa, cytosine-arabinoside,
Systemic therapy.
and hydrocortison. RT to symptomatic areas.
Drainage and instillation of tetracyclines or cytotoxics.
Biologicals administered locally.
Surgical pleurodesis (e.g., with the use of talc).

Contralateral breast
Bone metastases

Brain metastases
Spinal cord compression

Choroidal metastases
Carcinomatous meningitis
Symptomatic malignant effusions

Therapeutic Issues Related to Special Sites
of Metastases
The treatment of metastatic disease is influenced by its
anatomical spread. Data used to justify specific approaches
are derived from observations and clinical experience.
Table 5.13 describes the issues related to the therapy of
specific sites of disease. Quality-of-life oriented end points
must be considered when specific items of a palliative
approach are being discussed in a multidisciplinary setting.

Open therapeutic research questions

10.

11.

12.

13.

REFERENCES
1.
2.

3.

4.
5.
6.
7.

8.

9.

Jemal A, Siegel R, Ward E et al. Cancer statistics, 2008.
CA Cancer J Clin 2008; 58: 71–96.
Berry DA, Cronin KA, Plevritis SK et al. Effect of screening
and adjuvant therapy on mortality from breast cancer.
N Engl J Med 2005; 353: 1784–92.
Falk RT, Fears TR, Hoover RN et al. Does place of birth
influence endogenous hormone levels in Asian-American
women? Br J Cancer 2002; 87: 54–60.
Moulder S, Hortobagyi GN. Advances in the treatment of
breast cancer. Clin Pharmacol Ther 2008; 83: 26–36.
Walsh T, King MC. Ten genes for inherited breast cancer.
Cancer Cell 2007; 11: 103–5.
Begg CB, Haile RW, Borg A et al. Variation of breast cancer
risk among BRCA1/2 carriers. JAMA 2008; 299: 194–201.
Shiri-Sverdlov R, Oefner P, Green L et al. Mutational analyses of BRCA1 and BRCA2 in Ashkenazi and non-Ashkenazi
Jewish women with familial breast and ovarian cancer. Hum
Mutat 2000; 16: 491–501.
Simon R, Zhang X. On the dynamics of breast tumor development in women carrying germline BRCA1 and BRCA2
mutations. Int J Cancer 2008; 122: 1916–17.
Frank TS, Deffenbaugh AM, Reid JE et al. Clinical characteristics of individuals with germline mutations in BRCA1
and BRCA2: analysis of 10,000 individuals. J Clin Oncol
2002; 20: 1480–90.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.
19.

20.

US Food and Drug Administration. Medical product safety
information. http://www.fda.gov/medwatch/SAFETY/2005/
safety.htm
Horn PL, Thompson WD. Risk of contralateral breast cancer:
associations with histologic, clinical, and therapeutic factors.
Cancer 1988; 62: 412–24.
Bernstein JL, Thompson WD, Risch N et al. Risk factors
predicting the incidence of second primary breast cancer
among women diagnosed with a first primary breast cancer.
Am J Epidemiol 1992; 136: 925–36.
Trentham-Dietz A, Newcomb PA, Nichols HB et al. Breast
cancer risk factors and second primary malignancies among
women with breast cancer. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2007;
105: 195–207.
Li CI, Malone KE, Porter PL et al. Epidemiologic and molecular risk factors for contralateral breast cancer among young
women. Br J Cancer 2003; 89: 513–18.
Marchbanks PA, McDonald JA, Wilson HG et al. Oral contraceptives and the risk of breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2002;
346: 2025–32.
Breast cancer and hormonal contraceptives. Collaborative
reanalysis of individual data on 53,297 women with breast
cancer and 100,239 women without breast cancer from 54
epidemiological studies: Collaborative Group on Hormonal
Factors in Breast Cancer. Lancet 1996; 347: 1713–27.
Rossouw JE, Anderson GL, Prentice RL et al. Risks and benefits of estrogen plus progestin in healthy postmenopausal
women: Principal results from the Women’s Health Initiative
randomized controlled trial. JAMA 2002; 288: 321–33.
Beral V. Breast cancer and hormone replacement therapy in
the Million Women Study. Lancet 2003; 362: 419–27.
Breast cancer and hormone replacement therapy. Collaborative reanalysis of data from 51 epidemiological studies of
52,705 women with breast cancer and 108,411 women without breast cancer-Collaborative Group on Hormonal Factors
in Breast Cancer. Lancet 1997; 350: 1047–59.
Lee SA, Ross RK, Pike MC. An overview of menopausal
oestrogen-progestin hormone therapy and breast cancer risk.
Br J Cancer 2005; 92: 2049–58.

102
21.

22.

23.
24.

25.

26.

27.
28.

29.

30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.
42.

43.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
Holmberg L, Anderson H. HABITS (Hormonal Replacement
Therapy After Breast Cancer—Is It Safe?), a randomised
comparison: trial stopped. Lancet 2004; 363: 453–5.
von Schoultz E, Rutqvist LE. Menopausal hormone therapy
after breast cancer: the stockholm randomized trial. J Natl
Cancer Inst 2005; 97: 533–5.
Powles TJ, Hickish T, Casey S et al. Hormone replacement
after breast cancer. Lancet 1993; 342: 60–1.
DiSaia PJ, Grosen EA, Kurosaki T et al. Hormone replacement therapy in breast cancer survivors: a cohort study.
Am J Obstet Gynecol 1996; 174: 1494–8.
O’Meara ES, Rossing MA, Daling JR et al. Hormone replacement therapy after a diagnosis of breast cancer in relation
to recurrence and mortality. J Natl Cancer Inst 2001; 93:
754–62.
Phillips DH, Garte S. Smoking and breast cancer: is there
really a link? Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 2008;
17: 1–2.
Wu AH, Yu MC, Tseng C-C et al. Epidemiology of soy exposures and breast cancer risk. Br J Cancer 2008; 98: 9–14.
John EM, Schwartz GG, Dreon DM et al. Vitamin D and
breast cancer risk: the NHANES I Epidemiologic follow-up
study, 1971–1975 to 1992. National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev
1999; 8: 399–406.
Stevens RG, Rea MS. Light in the built environment: potential role of circadian disruption in endocrine disruption and
breast cancer. Cancer Causes Control 2001; 12: 279–87.
Coyle YM. The effect of environment on breast cancer risk.
Breast Cancer Res Treat 2004; 84: 273–88.
Boyle P. Global summit on mammographic screening. Ann
Oncol 2003; 14: 1159–60.
Fonseca R, Hartmann LC, Petersen IA et al. Ductal carcinoma
in situ of the breast. Ann Intern Med 1997; 127: 1013–22.
Hanby AM, Hughes TA. In situ and invasive lobular neoplasia of the breast. Histopathology 2008; 52: 58–66.
Berg JW, Hutter RV. Breast cancer. Cancer 1995; 75: 257–69.
Goldhirsch A, Wood WC, Gelber RD et al. Progress and
promise: highlights of the international expert consensus on
the primary therapy of early breast cancer 2007. Ann Oncol
2007; 18: 1133–44.
Veronesi U, Cascinelli N, Greco M et al. Prognosis of breast
cancer patients after mastectomy and dissection of internal
mammary nodes. Ann Surg 1985; 202: 702–7.
Pinder SE, Ellis IO, Galea MH et al. Pathological prognostic
factors in breast cancer. III. Vascular invasion: relationship
with recurrence and survival in a large study with long-term
follow-up. Histopathology 1994; 24: 41–7.
Galea MH, Blamey RW, Elston CE et al. The Nottingham
prognostic index in primary breast cancer. Breast Cancer Res
Treat 1992; 22: 207–19.
Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group (EBCTCG).
Effects of chemotherapy and hormonal therapy for early
breast cancer on recurrence and 15-year survival: an overview
of the randomised trials. Lancet 2005; 365: 1687–717.
Colleoni M, Minchella I, Mazzarol G et al. Response to
primary chemotherapy in breast cancer patients with tumors
not expressing estrogen and progesterone receptors. Ann
Oncol 2000; 11: 1057–9.
van’t Veer LJ, De Jong D. The microarray way to tailored
cancer treatment. Nat Med 2002; 8: 13–14.
Bardou VJ, Arpino G, Elledge RM et al. Progesterone receptor status significantly improves outcome prediction over
estrogen receptor status alone for adjuvant endocrine therapy in two large breast cancer databases. J Clin Oncol 2003;
21: 1973–9.
Silvestrini R, Daidone MG, Luisi A et al. Biologic and clinicopathologic factors as indicators of specific relapse types in
nodenegative breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 1995; 13: 697–704.

44. Pietilainen T, Lipponen P, Aaltomee S et al. The important
prognostic value of Ki-67 expression as determined by image
analysis in breast cancer. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol 1996; 122:
687–92.
45. Klijn JG, Berns PM, Schmitz PI et al. The clinical significance
of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) in human breast
cancer: a review on 5232 patients. Endocr Rev 1992; 13: 3–17.
46. Andrulis IL, Bull SB, Blackstein ME et al. neu/erbB-2 amplification identifies a poor-prognosis group of women with
node-negative breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 1998; 16: 1340–9.
47. Sjögren S, Inganäs M, Lindgren A et al. Prognostic and predictive value of c-erbB-2 overexpression in primary breast
cancer, alone and in combination with other prognostic
markers. J Clin Oncol 1998; 16: 462–9.
48. Slamon DJ, Leyland-Jones B, Shak S et al. Use of chemotherapy plus a monoclonal antibody against HER2 for metastatic breast cancer that overexpresses HER2. N Engl J Med
2001; 344: 783–92.
49. Peyrat JP, Bonneterre J, Lubin R et al. Prognostic significance
of circulating p53 antibodies in patients undergoing surgery
for locoregional breast cancer. Lancet 1995; 345: 621–2.
50. Dowsett M. Improved prognosis for biomarkers in breast
cancer. Lancet 1998; 351: 1753–4.
51. Porter-Jordan K, Lippman ME. Overview of the biologic
markers of breast cancer. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am
1994; 8: 73–100.
52. Foekens JA, Schmitt M, van Putten LJ et al. Plasminogen
activatorinhibitor-1 and prognosis in primary breast cancer.
J Clin Oncol 1994; 12: 1648–58.
53. Axelsson K, Ljung B-M, Moore DH et al. Tumor angiogenesis as a prognostic assay for invasive ductal carcinoma.
J Natl Cancer Inst 1995; 87: 997–1008.
54. Keyomarsi K, Tucker SL, Buchholz TA et al. Cyclin E and
survival in patients with breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2002;
347: 1566–75.
55. Braun S, Pantel K, Muller P et al. Cytokeratin-positive cells
in the bone marrow and survival of patients with stage I,
II, or III breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2000; 342: 525–33.
56. van de Vijver MJ, He YD, van’t Veer LJ et al. A geneexpression signature as a predictor of survival in breast
cancer. N Engl J Med 2002; 347: 1999–2009.
57. Sotiriou C, Neo SY, McShane LM et al. Breast cancer classification and prognosis based on gene expression profiles
from a population based study. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA
2003; 100: 10393–8.
58. Paik S, Shak S, Tang G et al. A multigene assay to predict
recurrence of tamoxifen-treated, node-negative breast cancer.
N Engl J Med 2004; 351: 2817–26.
59. Sparano JA. TAILORx. trial assigning individualized options
for treatment (Rx). Clin Breast Cancer 2006; 7: 347–50.
60. Bogaerts J, Cardoso F, Buyse M et al. Gene signature evaluation as a prognostic tool: challenges in the design of the
MINDACT trial. Nat Clin Pract Oncol 2006; 3: 540–51.
61. Mayer EL, Burstein HJ. Chemotherapy for metastatic breast
cancer. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am 2007; 21: 257–72.
62. Sobin LH, Wittekind C. TNM Classification of Malignant
Tumours. New York: UICC, Wiley-Liss, 2002.
63. Greene FL, Page DL, Fleming ID et al., eds. Breast. In: AJCC
Cancer Staging Manual, 6th edn. New York: Springer, 2002:
223–40.
64. Singletary SE, Allred C, Ashley P et al. Revision of the
American Joint Committee on Cancer staging system for
breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2002; 17: 3628–36.
65. Woodward WA, Strom EA, Tucker SL et al. Changes in the
2003 American Joint Committee on Cancer staging for breast
cancer dramatically affect stage-specific survival. J Clin Oncol
2003; 21: 3244–8.
66. Veronesi U, Cascinelli N, Mariani L et al. Twenty-year
follow-up of a randomized study comparing breast-conserving

Chapter 5:

67.

68.

69.

70.

71.

72.

73.

74.

75.

76.

77.

78.

79.

80.

81.

82.

83.
84.

85.

surgery with radical mastectomy for early breast cancer.
N Engl J Med 2002; 347: 1227–32.
Morrow M, Strom EA, Bassett LW et al. American College
of Radiology; American College of Surgeons; Society of Surgical Oncology; College of American Pathology. Standard for
breast conservation therapy in the management of invasive
breast carcinoma. CA Cancer J Clin 2002; 52: 277–300.
Holli K, Saaristo R, Isola J et al. Lumpectomy with or without
postoperative radiotherapy for breast cancer with favourable
prognostic features: results of a randomized study. Br J
Cancer 2001; 84: 164–9.
Veronesi U, Paganelli G, Viale G et al. A randomized comparison of sentinel-node biopsy with routine axillary dissection in breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2003; 349: 546–53.
Veronesi U, Paganelli G, Viale G et al. A randomized comparison of sentinel-node biopsy with routine axillary dissection in breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2003; 349: 546–53.
Sakorafas GH, Farley DR, Peros G. Recent advances and
current controversies in the management of DCIS of the
breast. Cancer Treat Rev 2008; 34: 483–97.
Overgaard M, Hansen PS, Overgaard J et al. Postoperative
radiotherapy in high-risk premenopausal women with
breast cancer who receive adjuvant chemotherapy. Danish
Breast Cancer Cooperative Group 82b Trial. N Engl J Med
1997; 337: 949–55.
Ragaz J, Jackson SM, Le N et al. Adjuvant radiotherapy and
chemotherapy in node-positive premenopausal women with
breast cancer. N Engl J Med 1997; 337: 956–62.
Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group. Favourable and unfavourable effects on long-term survival of
radiotherapy for early breast cancer: an overview of the
randomised trials. Lancet 2000; 355: 1757–70.
Bartelink H. Radiotherapy to the conserved breast, chest
wall, and regional nodes: is there a standard? Breast 2003;
12: 475–82.
Bartelink H, Horiot JC, Poortmans P et al. Recurrence rates
after treatment of breast cancer with standard radiotherapy
with or without additional radiation. N Engl J Med 2001;
345: 1378–87.
Budrukkar A. Accelerated partial breast irradiation: an
advanced form of hypofractionation. J Cancer Res Ther 2008;
4: 46–7.
Gelber RD, Goldhirsch A. Radiotherapy to the conserved
breast: Is it avoidable if the cancer is small. J Natl Cancer
Inst 1994; 86: 652–4.
Fehlauer F, Tribius S, Holler U et al. Long-term radiation
sequelae after breast-conserving therapy in women with
early-stage breast cancer: an observational study using the
LENT-SOMA scoring system. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys
2003; 55: 651–8.
Chen MH, Chuang ML, Bornstein BA et al. Impact of respiratory maneuvers on cardiac volume within left-breast radiation portals. Circulation 1997; 96: 3269–72.
Wallgren A, Bernier J, Gelber RD et al. for the IBCSG. Timing of radiotherapy and chemotherapy following breastconserving surgery for patients with node-positive breast
cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1996; 35: 649–59.
Dörr W, Bertmann S, Herrmann T. Radiation induced
lung reactions in breast cancer therapy. Modulating factors
and consequential effects. Strahlenther Onkol 2005; 181:
567–73.
Burstein HJ, Winer EP. Primary care for survivors of breast
cancer. N Engl J Med 2000; 343: 1086–94.
Loprinzi CL. It is now the age to define the appropriate
follow-up of primary breast cancer patients. J Clin Oncol
1994; 12: 881–3.
Rosselli Del Turco M, Palli D, Cariddi A et al. Intensive
diagnostic follow-up after treatment of primary breast
cancer. JAMA 1994; 271: 1593–7.

Breast Cancer

103

86. GIVIO Investigators. Impact of follow-up testing on survival
and health-related quality of life in breast cancer patients.
JAMA 1994; 271: 1587–92.
87. Khatcheressian JL, Wolff AC, Smith TJ et al. American Society of Clinical Oncology 2006 Update of the Breast Cancer
Follow-Up and Management Guidelines in the Adjuvant
Setting. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 1–7.
88. Warner E, Plewes DB, Hill KA et al. Surveillance of BRCA1
and BRCA2 mutation carriers with magnetic resonance
imaging, ultrasound, mammography, and clinical breast
examination. JAMA 2004; 292: 1317–25.
89. Lehman CD, Gatsonis C, Kuhl CK et al. MRI evaluation of
the contralateral breast in women with recently diagnosed
breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2007; 356: 1295–303.
90. Shah P, Rosen MA, Stopfer J et al. Follow-up MRI screening
of BRCA1/2 mutation carriers. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: abstract
11000.
91. Keshaviah A, Dellapasqua S, Rotmensz N et al. CA15-3 and
alkaline phosphatase as predictors for breast cancer recurrence: a combined analysis of seven International Breast
Cancer Study Group trials. Ann Oncol 2007; 18: 701–8.
92. Bast RC Jr, Ravdin P, Hayes DF. 2000 update of recommendations for the use of tumor markers in breast and colorectal cancer: clinical practice guidelines of the American
Society of Clinical Oncology. J Clin Oncol 2000; 19: 1865–78.
93. Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group (EBCTCG).
Effects of chemotherapy and hormonal therapy for early
breast cancer on recurrence and 15-year survival: an overview of the randomised trials. Lancet 2005; 365: 1687–717.
94. Fisher B, Brown AM, Dimitrov NV et al. Two months of
doxorubicin-cyclophosphamide with and without interval
reinduction therapy compared with 6 months of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil in positive-node
breast cancer patients with tamoxifen-nonresponsive tumors:
results from the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and
Bowel Project B-15. J Clin Oncol 1990; 8: 1483–96.
95. Hutchins L, Green S, Ravdin P et al. CMF versus CAF with
and without tamoxifen in high risk node negative breast
cancer patients and a natural history follow-up study in lowrisk node-negative patients: first results of Intergroup trial
INT 0102. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 1998; 17: 1a (abstract 1).
96. Citron ML, Berry DA, Cirrincione C et al. Randomized trial
of dose-dense versus conventionally scheduled and sequential versus concurrent combination chemotherapy as postoperative adjuvant treatment of node-positive primary breast
cancer: first report of Intergroup Trial C9741/Cancer
and Leukemia Group B Trial 9741. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21:
1431–9.
97. Bergh J, Wiklund T, Erikstein B et al. Tailored fluorouracil,
epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide compared with marrowsupported high-dose chemotherapy as adjuvant treatment
for high-risk breast cancer: a randomised trial. Scandinavian
Breast Group 9401 study. Lancet 2000; 356: 1384–91.
98. Nabholtz JM, Pienkowski T, Mackey J et al. Phase III trial
comparing TAC (docetaxel, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide)
with FAC (5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide)
in the adjuvant treatment of node positive breast cancer (BC)
patients: interim analysis of the BCIRG 001 study. Proc Am
Soc Clin Oncol 2002; 21: abstract 141.
99. Goldhirsch A, Colleoni M, Coates AS et al. Adding adjuvant
CMF chemotherapy to either radiotherapy or tamoxifen: are
all CMFs alike? Ann Oncol 1998; 9: 489–93.
100. Colleoni M, Litman HJ, Castiglione-Gertsch M et al. Duration of adjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer: a joint
analysis of two randomised trials investigating three versus
six courses of CMF. Br J Cancer 2002; 86: 1705–14.
101. The French Adjuvant Study Group. Benefit of a highdose epirubicin regimen in adjuvant chemotherapy for
node-positive breast cancer patients with poor prognostic

104

102.

103.

104.

105.

106.

107.

108.

109.

110.

111.

112.

113.

114.

115.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
factors: 5-Year follow-up results of French Adjuvant Study
Group 05 Randomized Trial. J Clin Oncol 2001; 19: 602–11.
Levine MN, Bramwell VH, Pritchard KI et al. Randomized
trial of intensive cyclophosphamide, epirubicin, and fluorouracil chemotherapy compared with cyclophosphamide,
methotrexate, and fluorouracil in premenopausal women
with node-positive breast cancer. National Cancer Institute
of Canada Clinical Trials Group. J Clin Oncol 1998; 16:
2651–8.
Smith RE, Bryant J, DeCillis A et al. Acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome after doxorubicincyclophosphamide adjuvant therapy for operable breast
cancer: the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel
Project Experience. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 1195–204.
Crump M, Tu D, Shepherd L et al. Risk of acute leukemia
following epirubicin-based adjuvant chemotherapy: a report
from the National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials
Group. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 3066–71.
Henderson IC, Berry DA, Demetri GD et al. Improved
outcomes from adding sequential paclitaxel but not from
escalating doxorubicin dose in an adjuvant chemotherapy
regimen for patients with node-positive primary breast
cancer. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 976–83.
Mamounas EP, Bryant J, Lembersky BC et al. Paclitaxel (T)
following doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide (AC) as adjuvant
chemotherapy for node-positive breast cancer: results from
NSABP B-28. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2003; 22: abstract 12.
Citron ML, Berry DA, Cirrincione C et al. Randomized trial
of dose-dense versus conventionally scheduled and sequential versus concurrent combination chemotherapy as postoperative adjuvant treatment of node-positive primary
breast cancer: first report of Intergroup Trial C9741/Cancer
and Leukemia Group B Trial 9741. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21:
1431–9.
Burnell M, Levine M, Chapman JA. A randomized trial of
CEF versus dose dense EC followed by paclitaxel versus AC
followed by paclitaxel in women with node positive or high
risk node negative breast cancer, NCIC CTG MA.21: results
of an interim analysis. 29th San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium 2006: abstract 53.
Crown JP, Francis P, Di Leo A et al. Docetaxel (T) given
concurrently with or sequentially to anthracycline-based (A)
adjuvant therapy (adjRx) for patients (pts) with node-positive
(N+) breast cancer (BrCa), in comparison with non-T adjRx:
First results of the BIG 2-98 Trial at 5 years median follow-up
(MFU). J Clin Oncol (2006 ASCO Annual Meeting Proceedings
Part I) 2006; 24(18S): abstract LBA519.
Ellis PA, Barrett-Lee PJ, Bloomfield D et al. Preliminary
results of the UK Taxotere as Adjuvant Chemotherapy
(TACT) Trial. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2007; 106(Suppl 1):
abstract 78.
Romond EH, Perez EA, Bryant J et al. Trastuzumab plus
adjuvant chemotherapy for operable HER2-positive breast
cancer. N Engl J Med 2005; 353: 1673–84.
Perez EA, Suman VJ, Davidson N et al. NCCTG N9831 May
2005 Update. Presented at the 2005 American Society of
Clinical Oncology Annual Meeting, Orlando, FL. Available
at http://www.asco.org/ac/1,1003,_12-002511-00_18-003400_19-005815-00_21-001,00.asp [Accessed 3 January 2006].
Piccart-Gebhart MJ, Procter M, Leyland-Jones B et al. Trastuzumab after adjuvant chemotherapy in HER2-positive
breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2005; 353: 1659–72.
Smith I, Procter M, Gelber RD et al. 2-year follow-up of
trastuzumab after adjuvant chemotherapy in HER2-positive
breast cancer: a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2007;
369: 29–36.
Slamon D, Eiermann W, Robert N et al. Phase III randomized trial comparing doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide
followed by docetaxel (AC T) with doxorubicin and

116.

117.

118.
119.

120.

121.

122.

123.

124.

125.

126.

127.

128.

129.

130.

131.
132.

cyclophosphamide followed by docetaxel and trastuzumab
(AC TH) with docetaxel, carboplatin and trastuzumab (TCH)
in HER2 positive early breast cancer patients: BCIRG
006 study. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2005; 94(suppl 1): S5a.
Joensuu H, Kellokumpu-Lehtinen P-L, Bono P et al. Adjuvant docetaxel or vinorelbine with or without trastuzumab
for breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2006; 354: 809–20.
Spielmann M, Roché H, Humblet Y et al. 3-year follow-up
of trastuzumab following adjuvant chemotherapy in node
positive HER2-positive breast cancer patients: results of the
PACS-04 trial. 30th San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium
2007: abstract 72.
Davidson NE. Ovarian ablation as adjuvant therapy for
breast cancer. J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr 2001; 30: 67–71.
Castiglione-Gertsch M, O’Neill A, Gelber RD et al. Is the
addition of adjuvant chemotherapy always necessary in node
negative (N-) pre/perimenopausal breast cancer patients
(pts) who receive goserelin? First results of IBCSG trial VIII.
Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2002; 21: abstract 149.
Love RR, Duc NB, Havighurst TC et al. HER-2/neu overexpression and response to oophorectomy plus tamoxifen
adjuvant therapy in ER-positive premenopausal women with
operable breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 453–7.
Brueggemeier RW. Aromatase inhibitors: new endocrine
treatment of breast cancer. Semin Reprod Med 2004; 22:
31–43.
ATAC Trialists Group. Anastrozole alone or in combination
with tamoxifen vs. tamoxifen alone for adjuvant treatment
of postmenopausal women with early breast cancer: first
results of the ATAC randomised trial. Lancet 2002; 359:
2131–9.
ATAC Trialists Group. Results of the ATAC (Arimidex,
Tamoxifen, Alone or in Combination) trial after completion
of 5 years’ adjuvant treatment for breast cancer. Lancet.
2005; 365: 60–2.
Forbes JF, Cuzick J, Buzdar A et al. ATAC: 100 month
median follow-up (FU) shows continued superior efficacy
and no excess fracture risk for anastrozole (A) compared with
tamoxifen (T) after treatment completion. 30th San Antonio
Breast Cancer Symposium 2007: abstract 41.
BIG 1–98 Collaborative Group. A comparison of letrozole
and tamoxifen in postmenopausal women with early breast
cancer. N Engl J Med 2005; 353: 2747–57.
Coates AS, Keshaviah A, Thuerlimann B et al. Five years of
letrozole compared with tamoxifen as initial adjuvant therapy for postmenopausal women with endocrine-responsive
early breast cancer: update of study BIG 1–98. J Clin Oncol
2007; 25: 486–92.
Coombes RC, Hall E, Gibson LJ et al. A randomized trial of
exemestane after two to three years of tamoxifen therapy in
postmenopausal women with primary breast cancer. N Engl
J Med 2004; 350: 1081–92.
Coombes RC, Kilburn LS, Snowdon CF et al. Survival and
safety of exemestane vs. tamoxifen after 2–3 years’ tamoxifen treatment (Intergroup Exemestane Study): a randomised
controlled trial. Lancet 2007; 369: 559–70.
Goss PE, Ingle JN, Martino S et al. Randomized trial of
letrozole following tamoxifen as extended adjuvant therapy
in receptor-positive breast cancer: updated findings from
NCIC CTG MA. 17. J Natl Cancer Inst 2005; 97: 1262–71.
Muss HB, Berry DL, Cirrincione C et al. Standard chemotherapy (CMF or AC) versus capecitabine in early-stage breast
cancer (BC) patients aged 65 and older: Results of CALGB/
CTSU 49907. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: abstract 507.
Giordano SH, Buzdar AU, Hortobagyi GN. Breast cancer in
men. Ann Intern Med 2002; 137(8): 678–87.
Gelber RD, Goldhirsch A, Cole BF. For the International
Breast Cancer Study Group. Evaluation of effectiveness:
Q-TWiST. Cancer Treat Rev 1993; 19: 73–84.

Chapter 5:
133. Therasse P, Mauriac L, Welnicka-Jaskiewicz M et al. Final
results of a randomized phase III trial comparing cyclophosphamide, epirubicin, and fluorouracil with a dose-intensified
epirubicin and cyclophosphamide + filgrastim as neoadjuvant treatment in locally advanced breast cancer: an EORTCNCIC-SAKK multicenter study. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21:
843–50.
134. Harvey JM, Clark GM, Osborne CK et al. ER status by
immunohistochemistry is superior to the ligand-binding
assay for predicting response to adjuvant endocrine therapy
in breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 1999; 17: 1474–81.
135. Pritchard KI. Endocrine therapy of advanced disease: analysis and implications of the existing data. Clin Cancer Res
2003; 9: 460S–7S.
136. Nabholtz JM, Buzdar A, Pollak M et al. Anastrozole is superior to tamoxifen as first-line therapy for advanced breast
cancer in postmenopausal women: results of a North American multicenter randomized trial. Arimidex Study Group.
J Clin Oncol 2000; 18: 3758–67.
137. Mouridsen H, Gershanovich M, Sun Y et al. Superior efficacy of letrozole versus tamoxifen as first-line therapy for
postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer:
results of a phase III study of the International Letrozole
Breast Cancer Group. J Clin Oncol 2001; 19: 2596–606.
138. Lundgren S. Progestins in breast cancer treatment. A review.
Acta Oncol 1992; 31: 709–22.
139. Osborne CK, Pippen J, Jones SE et al. Double-blind, randomized trial comparing the efficacy and tolerability of fulvestrant versus anastrozole in postmenopausal women with
advanced breast cancer progressing on prior endocrine
therapy: results of a North American trial. J Clin Oncol 2002;
20: 3386–95.
140. Howell A, Robertson JF, Quaresma AJ et al. Fulvestrant,
formerly ICI 182,780, is as effective as anastrozole in postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer progressing after prior endocrine treatment. J Clin Oncol 2002; 20:
3396–403.
141. Minton MJ, Knight RK, Rubens RD et al. Corticosteroids for
elderly patients with breast cancer. Cancer 1981; 48: 883–7.
142. Norton L. Evolving concepts in the systemic drug therapy
of breast cancer. Semin Oncol 1997; 24: S10-3–S10-10.
143. Sledge GW, Neuberg D, Bernardo P et al. Phase III trial of
doxorubicin, paclitaxel, and the combination of doxorubicin
and paclitaxel as front-line chemotherapy for metastatic
breast cancer: an intergroup trial (E1193). J Clin Oncol 2003;
21: 588–92.
144. Harris L, Batist G, Belt R et al. The TLC D-99 Study
Group: Liposome-encapsulated doxorubicin compared with

145.
146.

147.

148.

149.

150.

151.

152.

153.

154.

155.

Breast Cancer

105

conventional doxorubicin in a randomized multicenter trial
as first-line therapy of metastatic breast carcinoma. Cancer
2002; 94: 25–36.
Kerbel RS, Kamen BA. The anti-angiogenic basis of metronomic chemotherapy. Nat Rev Cancer 2004; 4: 423–36.
Bocci G, Nicolaou KC, Kerbel RS. Protracted low-dose effects
on human endothelial cell proliferation and survival in vitro
reveal a selective antiangiogenic window for various chemotherapeutic drugs. Cancer Res 2002; 62: 6938–43.
Colleoni M, Rocca A, Sandri MT et al. Low-dose oral methotrexate and cyclophosphamide in metastatic breast cancer:
antitumor activity and correlation with vascular endothelial
growth factor levels. Ann Oncol 2002; 13: 73–80.
Colleoni M, Orlando L, Sanna G et al. Metronomic low dose
oral cyclophosphamide and methotrexate plus or minus thalidomide in metastatic breast cancer: antitumor activity and
biological effects. Ann Oncol 2006; 17: 232–8.
Cobleigh MA, Vogel CL, Tripathy D et al. Multinational study
of the efficacy and safety of humanized anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody in women who have HER2-overexpressing
metastatic breast cancer that has progressed after chemotherapy for metastatic disease. J Clin Oncol 1999; 17: 2639–48.
Vogel CL, Cobleigh MA, Tripathy D et al. Efficacy and
safety of trastuzumab as a single agent in first-line treatment
of HER2-overexpressing metastatic breast cancer. J Clin
Oncol 2002; 20: 719–26.
Slamon DJ, Leyland-Jones B, Shak S et al. Use of chemotherapy plus a monoclonal antibody against HER2 for metastatic breast cancer that overexpresses HER2. N Engl J Med
2001; 344: 783–92.
Stadtmauer EA, O’Neill A, Goldstein LJ et al. Conventionaldose chemotherapy compared with high-dose chemotherapy
plus autologous hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation for
metastatic breast cancer. Philadelphia Bone Marrow Transplant Group. N Engl J Med 2000; 342: 1069–76.
Coates A, Gebski V, Bishop JF et al. Improving the quality
of life during chemotherapy for advanced breast cancer. A
comparison of intermittent and continuous treatment strategies. New Engl J Med 1987; 317: 1490–5.
Muss HB, Case LD, Richards F et al. Interrupted versus
continuous chemotherapy in patients with metastatic breast
cancer. The Piedmont Oncology Association. N Engl J Med
1991; 325: 1342–8.
Falkson G, Gelman RS, Glick J et al. Metastatic breast cancer:
higher versus low dose maintenance treatment when only
a partial response or a no change status is obtained following doxorubicin induction treatment: an Eastern Cooperative
Oncology Group study. Ann Oncol 1992; 3: 768–70.

6
1
Gynecological Cancer
Susana Banerjee and Martin Gore

carry one of three genetic mutations. Nevertheless, 90% of
ovarian cancers arise sporadically.

INTRODUCTION
Gynecological cancers (ovarian, uterine, cervical, vulval,
and vaginal) affect 17,000 women per year in the United
Kingdom and many women still present with advanced
disease with little prospect of cure. The optimal management of gynecological malignancies is increasingly complex
and involves a multidisciplinary approach. There remains
a significant risk of recurrence and resistance to therapy
despite advances in surgical, radio, and chemotherapeutic
strategies. However, over recent years, there have been
improvements in our understanding of the biology of gynecological cancers and in the design of molecularly targeted
therapies. This chapter summarizes the medical management of gynecological cancers and, in particular, the roles
of chemotherapy and targeted agents.

Pathology
Approximately 90% of ovarian carcinomas are epithelial in
origin and develop from the surface of the ovary. The
remainder arise from germ or stromal cells (see later). The
ovary can also become involved by metastatic disease, especially from breast cancer or Krukenberg tumors (mucinproducing neoplastic signet-ring cells involving the ovarian
stroma) from the gastrointestinal tract. The histological
subtypes of ovarian cancer as defined by the World Health
Organization are summarized in Table 6.1. Histological
grade and type can be important prognostic factors in
early-stage disease. Clear cell and mucinous types have a
poorer outcome compared to other forms of epithelial
ovarian cancers (1). Recent molecular evidence suggests
that different histological subtypes could be considered as
distinct disease entities. For example, KRAS, BRAF, and
ERBB2 mutations occur in low-grade serous carcinoma but
are rare in high-grade serous carcinoma.

OVARIAN CANCER
Epidemiology
Ovarian cancer is the second most common gynecological
malignancy and the leading cause of death from a gynecological cancer. There are approximately 6000 new cases
of ovarian cancer and 4500 associated deaths per year in
the United Kingdom accounting for 5% of all cancer deaths.
Most epithelial ovarian carcinomas (EOCs) are diagnosed
in postmenopausal women and the median age at diagnosis
is 63 years. Their incidence is age related with the disease
being almost four times more common in the 70–74 years
age group compared to 40–44 years age group. There has
been little overall change in incidence and mortality rates
over the past three decades but improvements in survival
times and quality of life have occurred as a result of more
effective surgery, chemotherapy, and a multidisciplinary
approach to patient care.

Clinical Features
Early-stage disease often gives rise to vague, ill-defined
symptoms that may be overlooked. As a result, the majority of patients present with advanced (Stage III or IV)
disease. Common clinical features are abdominal distension
(with ascites) and discomfort, bowel disturbance, nausea,
anorexia, dyspnea (secondary to pleural effusion), and urinary tract symptoms. In view of the nature of presentation,
patients are often misdiagnosed leading to delayed referral
to a specialist gynecological team. Metastases often develop
throughout the peritoneal cavity via transcoelomic spread
of malignant cells. Common sites include all intraperitoneal
(IP) surfaces, omentum, right hemi-diaphragm, para-aortic,
and pelvic nodes. Hematogenous metastases are uncommon
but can give rise to liver and lung metastases. The bladder
and rectosigmoid may also be involved with metastases by
direct extension from the ovary.

Etiology
Hereditary epithelial ovarian cancer syndromes affect
approximately 10% of ovarian cancer patients and as many
as 90% of these cases are accounted for by BRCA mutations. Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC)
can also be associated with a hereditary predisposition to
ovarian cancer. Women carrying mutations of either the
BRCA1 gene (chromosome 17q) or BRCA2 gene (chromosome 13) have a significantly higher lifetime risk of developing ovarian cancer, reported as up to 60% for BRCA1
and 15–20% for BRCA2. Founder effects of BRCA1 and
BRCA2 mutations have been identified in the Ashkenazi
Jewish population where up to 2.5% of the population

Diagnosis and Evaluation
A definitive histological diagnosis requires surgery. However, the combination of tests such as pelvic examination,
transvaginal ultrasound, serum CA125, peritoneal cytology, and imaging can provide a presumptive diagnosis. A
solid, irregular, fixed pelvic mass is highly suggestive of
an ovarian malignancy although benign lesions such as
endometriomas and tuboovarian abscesses may also give
106

Chapter 6:

Table 6.1

Modified WHO Classification of Ovarian Tumors

Epithelial tumors

A. Serous
B. Mucinous
C. Endometrioid
D. Clear cell
E. Brenner
F. Mixed epithelial
G. Undifferentiated
H. Unclassified
A. Granulosa
B. Sertoli-Leydig
C. Gonadoblastoma
D. Unclassified

Sex cord stromal tumors

Lipid cell tumors
Germ cell tumors

A. Dysgerminoma
B. Endodermal sinus tumor
C. Embryonal carcinoma
D. Polyembryona
E. Choriocarcinoma
F. Teratoma
G. Mixed forms

rise to such findings. A transvaginal ultrasound scan is
used to identify sonographic characteristics such as abnormal color Doppler flow suggestive of ovarian malignancy.
Computerized tomography (CT) scanning is used to evaluate disease extent preoperatively and is especially useful
in the assessment of retroperitoneal lymph node involvement and peritoneal disease.
Serum CA-125 is elevated (>35 U/ml) in approximately 80% of women with EOC and the sensitivity varies
with stage and histological subtype. It is often high in
women with serous histology but can be normal in women
with mucinous cancers. CA-125 is more useful in postmenopausal women than in the premenopausal setting. A
raised CA-125 is not specific for a diagnosis of ovarian

Gynecological Cancer

107

cancer and it can also be increased in other malignancies
such as endometrial, pancreatic, and breast cancers as well
as benign conditions including endometriosis, inflammatory pelvic disease, and hepatitis. However, once ovarian
cancer is confirmed in the presence of raised CA-125, this
marker can be valuable as an indicator of relapsed disease,
treatment response, and early treatment failure.
The potential benefit of screening is its ability to
identify ovarian cancer at a more localized and curable stage,
leading to reduced mortality from the disease. Screening
tests under evaluation include CA-125 measurements and
pelvic ultrasonography. Prospective screening trials are not
yet completed, hence the impact of screening on ovarian
cancer is still an open question and routine screening for
ovarian cancer is not currently recommended.

Staging and Surgery
Ovarian cancer is staged surgically and is expressed according to the International Federation of Gynecologists and
Obstetricians (FIGO) staging system (Table 6.2). The initial
treatment of ovarian cancer is determined by the stage of
disease at the time of diagnosis and therefore it is imperative that complete surgical staging is achieved to assess all
likely sites of spread. A full staging laparotomy with a
vertical midline incision includes a total abdominal hysterectomy (TAH), bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO),
omentectomy, biopsies of suspicious areas, and peritoneal
lavage or ascitic fluid sampling. Blind peritoneal, paraaortic/pelvic lymph node biopsies should be performed to
exclude the possibility of microscopic Stage III disease, as
up to 20% of women with apparent Stage I disease have
been shown to have para-aortic lymph node involvement.
Approximately 25% of women present with Stage I or II
disease; the remaining 75% present with Stage III or IV
ovarian cancer. Tumor stage is the most important prognostic indicator of ovarian cancer (Table 6.2).

Table 6.2 International Federation of Gynecologists and Obstetricians (FIGO) Stage Grouping for Primary Carcinoma of the Ovary and Five-Year
Survival by Stage
Stage

Description

I
Ia
Ib
Ic
II
IIa
IIb
IIc
III

IIIa
IIIb
IIIc
IV

Growth limited to the ovaries
Growth limited to one ovary; no ascites. No tumor on the external surface; capsule intact
Growth limited to both ovaries; no ascites. No tumor on the external surface; capsule intact
Tumor either stage Ia or Ib but with tumor on the surface of one or both ovaries, or with capsule
ruptured, or with ascites present containing malignant cells or with positive peritoneal washings
Growth involving one or both ovaries with pelvic extension
Extension and/or metastases to the uterus and/or tubes
Extension to other pelvic tissues
Tumor either stage IIa or IIb but with tumor on the surface of one or both ovaries, or with capsule(s)
ruptured, or with ascites present containing malignant cells or with positive peritoneal washings
Tumor involving one or both ovaries with peritoneal implants outside the pelvis and/or positive
retroperitoneal or inguinal nodes or superficial liver metastases. Tumor is limited to the true
pelvis but with histologicallly verified malignant extension to small bowel or omentum
Tumor grossly limited to the true pelvis with negative nodes but with histologically confirmed
microscopic seeding of abdominal peritoneal surfaces
Tumor of one or both ovaries with histologically confirmed implants of abdominal peritioneal
surfaces, none exceeding 2 cm in diameter. Node negative
Abdominal implants greater than 2 cm in diameter and/or positive retroperitoneal or inguinal nodes
Growth involving one or both ovaries with distant metastases. If pleural effusion is present, cytology
must be positive. Parenchymal liver metastasis

Data from 6th Annual FIGO Report: Patients Treated 1999–2001.

5-year survival (%)
90
86
83

71
66
71

47
42
33
19

108

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

The volume of residual disease postsurgery inversely
correlates with survival. In addition, removal of bulky
disease can improve disease-related symptoms. Optimal
cytoreductive surgery (“optimum debulking”) is defined
as residual disease less than 1 cm in diameter. The likelihood of achieving optimal debulking depends in part on
the surgeon, and gynecologists specializing in oncology
should perform these procedures.

Management
The majority of ovarian cancer patients (almost all except
those with low-risk Stage I tumors) require chemotherapy
following initial surgery. The combination of intravenous
platinum and a taxane is standard first-line therapy for
women with EOC. Chemotherapy may be given either
adjuvantly for early- and late-stage disease or in the
neoadjuvant setting.

Adjuvant Chemotherapy for Early-Stage
Ovarian Cancer
Patients with early-stage disease (Stage I or II) are initially
managed with surgery. Although the prognosis for earlystage ovarian cancer is better than in advanced disease, a
substantial number of women will eventually relapse and
die, hence the interest in adjuvant therapy. The prognosis
is not uniform among Stage I and II tumors and this is
reflected in the decision regarding whom to treat. Further
systemic therapy is generally not recommended for women
with well-differentiated Grade I cancers (2). A worse prognosis has been associated with patients who present with
one or more of the following:
Stage Ic disease
Clear cell histology
High-grade (poorly differentiated) tumors
Suboptimal surgical staging
Overall evidence suggests that there is a role for adjuvant
chemotherapy in this group of patients. This issue was
evaluated in two prospective randomized studies: the International Collaborative Ovarian Neoplasm (ICON-1) and
the Adjuvant Treatment in Ovarian Neoplasm (ACTION)
trials (3). These trials compared platinum-based adjuvant
chemotherapy with observation following surgery in earlystage ovarian cancer. A combined analysis of the trials
demonstrated a significant (8%) five-year survival benefit
favoring the adjuvant chemotherapy group. There has been
criticism of ICON-1 in relation to the lack of strict policies
and checks on the completion of surgical staging. Therefore, it is possible that many patients may in fact have had
advanced disease. Furthermore, subanalysis of the ACTION
trial showed that this benefit may only be applicable to
suboptimally staged patients suggesting that treatment of
residual disease could explain the beneficial effect achieved
with adjuvant chemotherapy. Results from a recent update
of the ICON-1 trial favored the chemotherapy group [10
year recurrence-free survival HR = 0.70, p = 0.023; overall
survival (OS) HR for death = 0.74, p = 0.066] (4). The
Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG)-157 trial addressed
the issue of optimal duration of adjuvant chemotherapy.

There was no significant difference in recurrence or five-year
survival with six cycles of adjuvant carboplatin/paclitaxel
compared to three cycles. However, toxicity was worse
with six cycles (5).

Choice of First-Line Chemotherapy Agents
Platinum agents have proven to be a critical component of
the treatment of epithelial ovarian cancer. A meta-analysis
of 37 randomized trials revealed a significant reduction in
the risk of death (12%) that translated into an absolute 5%
improvement in survival at two years (45% vs. 50%) and
five years (25% vs. 30%) (p = 0.02) (6).
Carboplatin is associated with a more favorable toxicity profile compared to cisplatin having less ototoxicity,
neuropathy, renal impairment, and emetogenesis. However,
carboplatin causes myelosuppression that can be doselimiting, particularly if combined with other agents. Carboplatin is now the standard platinum agent for treating
ovarian carcinoma. This development is on the basis of
several studies including a meta-analysis that concluded
that carboplatin and cisplatin are therapeutically equivalent in women with advanced EOC (6–8).
Several randomized trials have compared cisplatin/
carboplatin and paclitaxel with single agent platinum, paclitaxel, or cisplatin/cyclophosphamide. The GOG-111 trial
demonstrated statistically significant improvements in the
overall response rates (73% vs. 60%), progression-free survival (PFS) (18 vs. 13 months), and OS (38 vs. 24 months)
in suboptimally debulked Stage III–IV patients who received
cisplatin with paclitaxel compared to cisplatin with cyclophosphamide (9). A similar study (OV-10) confirmed the
significant survival benefit seen with the addition of paclitaxel to cisplatin even in patients who had been optimally
debulked (10). Studies were then undertaken to evaluate
whether carboplatin, given the superior toxicity profile,
could be substituted for cisplatin. Three randomized trials
confirmed that the carboplatin–paclitaxel combination is
equally effective and better tolerated than the cisplatin–
paclitaxel combination (7,8,11).
The current standard first-line therapy for ovarian
carcinoma is six cycles of carboplatin AUC 5-7 over one
hour with paclitaxel (175 mg/m2) as a three-hour infusion
every 21 days. Our practice is to administer the above
regimen to patients with the high-risk features listed earlier. Chemotherapy should begin within four to six weeks
of surgery. There appears to be no benefit in commencing
chemotherapy any earlier (12). Despite the wide international acceptance of this regimen, several controversial
issues remain which are discussed below.
In addition, a recent randomized trial from the
Japanese Gynecological Oncology Group involving over
600 cases indicated superiority for first-line combination
treatment in which conventional three weekly paclitaxel
was replaced by a weekly paclitaxel regime (13). There was
a highly significant improvement in median PFS (17 months
increasing to 28 months). Confirmatory trials are therefore
under discussion.

Combination vs. Single Agent Chemotherapy
It has been perceived that the platinum–paclitaxel combination is superior to single agent platinum. Two in-depth

Chapter 6:

studies addressed this issue and concluded that cisplatin
alone (GOG-132 trial) or single agent carboplatin (ICON-3)
are as efficacious as combination therapy with paclitaxel.
These findings, however, must be interpreted carefully
because both trials have various shortcomings. In the GOG132 trial (cisplatin vs. paclitaxel vs. both), half of the
patients in the single arms of the trial received off-study
chemotherapy prior to relapse and 85% “crossed over” by
receiving the alternative drug after relapse, thereby effectively receiving sequential therapy (14). This may have
obscured survival differences and led to an unintentional
comparison of concurrent versus sequential therapy. Similar criticisms have been made of the ICON-3 trial (15).
There was considerable heterogeneity in the study population (Stage 1c–IV) and the extent of primary surgery was
not defined. Moreover, the data in this trial were not
audited. Therefore, these results are not definitive and the
carboplatin–paclitaxel combination remains the standard of
care. However, in appropriate cases, particularly those in
whom combination treatment may be poorly tolerated,
single agent carboplatin is a satisfactory alternative.

Gynecological Cancer

109

Role of Other Agents
Docetaxel and paclitaxel have similar mechanisms of action
but there is experimental evidence of partial noncrossresistance and a response rate of 23% was seen in a Phase
II trials of docetaxel in paclitaxel-refractory Mullerian
carcinoma (23). The SCOTROC study compared carboplatin–
docetaxel with carboplatin–paclitaxel in previously untreated
patients and found equivalent response rates and survival.
The carboplatin–docetaxel combination was associated
with less neurotoxicity and greater myelosuppression than
carboplatin–paclitaxel (24). These findings suggest that docetaxel may be an option as a first-line agent in appropriate
cases.
Liposomal doxorubicin, topotecan, gemcitabine, and
epirubicin have been evaluated as first-line therapy in addition to the carboplatin and paclitaxel combination. However,
the results of two Phase III trials including the GOG0182ICON-5 did not demonstrate any benefit from the addition
of a third agent (25,26).

The Role of Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy
and Interval Debulking Surgery
Duration of Treatment, Maintenance,
and High-Dose Chemotherapy
Randomized trials have failed to show the benefit of longer
periods of chemotherapy in advanced EOC (e.g., five vs.
eight cycles of cisplatin or carboplatin) (16). The optimum
number of treatment cycles of the carboplatin–paclitaxel
combination in advanced EOC has yet to be formally confirmed in a randomized setting. Conventionally, six cycles
are delivered although some oncologists may administer
more than six cycles, particularly when there seems to be
a continuing response.
Prolonged administration of single agent chemotherapy, IP chemotherapy, and immunotherapy have been
studied as maintenance therapy in ovarian cancer. So far,
only one study has shown a benefit of maintenance therapy. A significant, seven-month prolongation of PFS (28
vs. 21 months, p = 0.0023) was achieved with 12 monthly
cycles of paclitaxel compared to three monthly cycles in
patients who were in remission after standard carboplatin–
paclitaxel chemotherapy. However, there was no difference
in the OS and neuropathy was more common with longer
treatment (17). In addition, the hazard ratio for disease
progression markedly increased after maintenance therapy
was ceased. No survival benefit was observed in a trial
(Italian After-6 protocol) that compared a shorter course of
paclitaxel maintenance therapy (six cycles) with observation after six cycles of carboplatin–paclitaxel (18). Two randomized trials compared an additional four cycles of single
agent topotecan after six cycles of carboplatin–paclitaxel and
failed to demonstrate a benefit for maintenance therapy
(19,20). The ongoing GOG-212 trial is designed to answer
the question of whether taxane maintenance therapy offers
a true survival benefit.
It has been proposed that drug resistance can be
overcome by dose intensification. However, there has been
no convincing clinical evidence to indicate that using
higher doses of carboplatin improves OS. Studies of highdose chemotherapy with stem cell transplantation as initial
therapy for EOC (21) or as consolidation therapy (22) for
women in remission have failed to show benefit.

Primary optimal debulking surgery followed by systemic
chemotherapy is the conventional initial management for
women with advanced ovarian carcinoma. An alternative
is chemotherapy commenced prior to surgery, also known
as “neoadjuvant chemotherapy.” This is administered with
a view to subsequent surgery or “delayed primary surgery”
either in between courses or after completion of chemotherapy, depending on the degree and rate of response.
This approach is applicable to patients where initial cytoreduction may not be feasible because of disease bulk and
for those women that present with massive ascites, poor
performance status, or significant comorbidities that may
prevent aggressive surgery.
One study demonstrated a significantly greater likelihood of optimal debulking following neoadjuvant chemotherapy compared to those who had primary debulking
surgery followed by adjuvant chemotherapy (95% vs. 71%)
(27). Furthermore, women with extraabdominal disease
who received neoadjuvant carboplatin and paclitaxel chemotherapy rather than initial debulking surgery had a
significantly longer median OS compared to women who
underwent initial debulking surgery (31 vs. 20 months).
However, there are other data that show a negative survival effect of increasing number of chemotherapy cycles
prior to interval surgery and suggest that definitive surgery
should be undertaken as early in the management plan as
possible (28). Preliminary findings of a randomized trial
addressing the impact of neoadjuvant chemotherapy demonstrated a significantly higher optimal debulking rate, less
operative blood loss, and fewer postoperative infections
in patients who received neoadjuvant chemotherapy compared to initial surgery followed by chemotherapy (29).
However, the differences in median OS and disease-free survival were not statistically significant. Until further results
are available, initial optimal debulking is usually recommended. Currently, the optimal setting for the neoadjuvant
approach is unknown and if chosen, surgical debulking
should be intercalated early on during the treatment course.
Some patients undergo suboptimal debulking at
primary surgery and may benefit from a further operation

110

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

during chemotherapy, that is, “Interval debulking.” The
role of surgery in this setting remains controversial and
randomized data have shown conflicting results. The results
of an European Organisation for Research and Treatment
of Cancer (EORTC) prospective randomized study of 278
women with ovarian cancer who had received suboptimal
debulking at primary surgery support this approach.
Patients were assigned surgery or no surgery after three of
a total of six cycles of cyclophosphamide and cisplatin. The
group that underwent a second surgical procedure demonstrated an improved two-year survival compared to the
chemotherapy alone arm (56% vs. 46%) reducing the risk
of death by 33% (p = 0.008) (30). By contrast, a GOG trial
did not confirm the benefits of interval surgery. In this
study, 550 suboptimally debulked patients were randomized to receive either interval debulking after three cycles
or no surgery during a total of six cycles of cisplatin and
paclitaxel. There was no significant difference in progressionfree or OS between the two groups (31). It has been postulated that the conflicting results arise from the fact that,
in contrast to patients in the EORTC trial, all the GOG trial
patients underwent initial surgery by specialist gynecological-oncology teams. Therefore, interval debulking may
not be useful if maximal effort at debulking has already
been undertaken. Conversely, some clinicians would argue
that interval debulking is a valid option in patients whose
primary surgery did not achieve optimal cytoreduction.

Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy
Epithelial ovarian cancer has a unique pattern of spread
and the bulk of disease tends to remain within the peritoneal cavity. This feature has led to the investigation of IP
delivery of chemotherapy which allows for dose intensification while reducing systemic toxicity. However, penetration into tumor tissue is limited, and hence this approach
appears best suited to patients with minimal residual disease after surgical cytoreduction. Three trials have reported
a survival advantage for IP chemotherapy compared to IV
administration in women with optimally cytoreduced (to
<0.5 cm) Stage III epithelial ovarian cancer. The most
recent trial, GOG trial 172 randomized 429 patients with
optimally debulked Stage III disease between intravenous
paclitaxel (135 mg/m2 over 24 hr) followed by either intravenous cisplatin 75 mg/m2 (control) or both IP cisplatin
100 mg/m2 (day 2), and IP paclitaxel 60 mg/m2 (day 8)
for six cycles. IP therapy was associated with significantly improved median progression-free survival (23.8 vs.
18.3 months, p = 0.05) and OS (65.6 vs. 49.7 months, p =
0.03) although only 42% of patients in the IP group completed all six cycles because of complications (32). The
interpretation of the survival data is limited for several
reasons. Firstly, the control arm did not receive the current
standard of care, that is, i.v. carboplatin and paclitaxel. In
addition, the dose and schedule of the two drugs differ in
the two arms of the study and hence the survival advantages may be as a result of higher doses of cisplatin and
a higher cumulative dose of paclitaxel rather than route of
administration. Furthermore, the analysis was not a true
intention-to-treat analysis and given the marginal statistical
differences, minor imbalances in the number of excluded
patients could render the trial statistically nonsignificant.
Treatment-related complications occur in up to 20% of

patients and include abdominal discomfort, infection,
obstruction, leakage, access problems, and bowel injury. In
addition to catheter-related problems, fatigue, hematological, gastrointestinal, and neurological events were
significantly higher in the IP arm of the GOG-172 trial.
The use of IP chemotherapy is not universally adopted
largely because of the greater toxicity associated with this
approach.

Chemotherapy for Relapsed Disease
Once epithelial ovarian cancer has recurred, treatment
with curative intent is no longer feasible. Several factors
present at diagnosis are associated with a greater likelihood of disease relapse and include clinical stage, disease
bulk, presence of ascites, age, and histology (clear cell,
mucinous, poorly differentiated). Most relapsed epithelial
ovarian cancers initially respond to chemotherapy but
eventually the disease becomes resistant to treatment.
However, the judicious use of palliative chemotherapy can
improve both survival and quality of life for patients with
recurrent disease.
Timing of Treatment and Surveillance. Treatment is
aimed to relieve cancer-related symptoms, optimize quality
of life, delay the time to symptomatic disease progression,
and prolong OS. Most treatment options are associated
with toxicity that could be detrimental to quality of life.
An optimal window time for treatment exists and missing
this opportunity may result in problematic toxicity without
any palliative benefit. Biochemical and clinical surveillance
to detect disease relapse is performed at regular intervals.
Elevations in CA-125 may precede clinical or radiographic
detection by three to six months. Recommendations for
asymptomatic women with only a rising CA-125 (equivocal
CT scan) are highly individualized and may include continued serial CA-125 monitoring until the development of
symptoms or measurable disease, surgical reassessment,
or immediate institution of systemic chemotherapy. Currently, there is no evidence to indicate that treatment of
recurrent disease based on early detection of a rising
CA-125 improves survival and therefore current practice
in the authors’ institution is to instigate chemotherapy on
occurrence of disease-related symptoms or bulk (>3 cm)
disease radiologically. The results of a current MRC/
EORTC study that has randomized patients to receive
treatment based on CA-125 alone or when clinically indicated are pending. Approximately 10–20% of patients
present with normal CA-125 at diagnosis and are termed
“non-secretors.” This population requires close follow-up
with regular scans to detect relapse prior to the development
of bulky disease.
Choice of Treatment. There have been no randomized
controlled trials to compare chemotherapy with best supportive care for relapsed disease and platinum-based therapy
remains the preferred option for patients who have late
relapse. However, several other agents have shown activity in relapsed ovarian cancer with most drugs having a
response rate in the range of 10–30% for patients with a
treatment-free interval of less than 12 months. The management of recurrent EOC takes into account the duration
of the platinum-free interval and the response to first-line
platinum therapy.

Chapter 6:

Patients can be divided into the following categories:
Platinum sensitive
Platinum-free interval of at least six months. This group has
a higher chance of responding either to a rechallenge
with platinum-based treatment or to other agents especially if the interval exceed two years.
Platinum resistant
Relapsed disease during or within six months from the end
of first-line platinum treatment. This group is likely to
have chemoresistant disease and the future chance of
response to cytotoxic agents is modest.
Platinum refractory
No response or progressive disease at the end of six cycles
of platinum-based chemotherapy.
Platinum-sensitive disease Many trials have concluded that second-line platinum-based therapy provides
significant benefit for patients with platinum-sensitive EOC
and therefore women who relapse more than six months
after initial platinum treatment are usually rechallenged
with platinum-based therapy. The length of platinum-free
interval is highly predictive of the upper limit of the duration of disease control that can be expected with secondline cisplatin-based chemotherapy (33). The best regimen
for retreatment of women with platinum-sensitive disease
is not clear. Several major trials have addressed the question of whether single agent (platinum alone) or combination therapy (including platinum) should be the treatment
of choice. The first randomized Phase III trial (ICON4/
AGO-OVAR-2.2) assigned 802 women who relapsed with
platinum-sensitive disease and a treatment-free interval of
at least six months to conventional platinum-based chemotherapy or combination therapy (paclitaxel plus a platinum
agent) (34). There was a significant OS benefit in favor
of paclitaxel-containing combined therapy (hazard ratio,
HR = 0.82), which corresponded to an absolute two-year
survival benefit of 7% (57% vs. 50%), and a five-month
improvement in median survival (29 vs. 24 months). The
combination therapy also improved progression-free survival (HR = 0.76; one year PFS: 50% vs. 40%). A higher
incidence of Grade 2–4 neurological effects (20% vs. 1%)
and alopecia (86% vs. 25%) were noted with the combination therapy and a lower rate of myelosuppression in the
paclitaxel-treated patients. Importantly, only 40% of
patients received paclitaxel as part of the initial therapy
although subset analysis did not reveal a significant difference between patients with and without prior paclitaxel
exposure. Nevertheless, the major benefit numerically
occurs in those women who have not previously been
treated with paclitaxel. Further support for combination
therapy was provided by a randomized Phase III trial
(SWOG S0200) that compared liposomal doxorubicin plus
carboplatin versus carboplatin alone (35). The combined
therapy group had a significantly higher response rate
(67% vs. 32%), median PFS (12 vs. 8 months) and median
OS (26 vs. 18 months) but the results were based on accrual
of only 61 of a planned 900 women, limiting the interpretation of the results. In contrast, an OS benefit was not
shown for combination therapy in a Gynecologic Cancer
Intergroup Phase III trial in which patients were randomly
assigned to carboplatin alone (AUC 5) or carboplatin (AUC
4) plus gemcitabine (36). In fact, the trial was not powered

Gynecological Cancer

111

to show an OS difference, and the combined therapy did
result in a significantly higher overall response rate (47% vs.
31%) and median PFS (8.6 vs. 5.8 months) without worsening quality of life, although hematological toxicity was
worse. Taken together, these data support the superiority
of combination platinum-based regimens compared to
single agent platinum-based therapy alone. Some clinicians
believe that single agent platinum therapy should be considered the standard of care for platinum-sensitive relapsing
disease in view of the only modest survival advantages but
worse toxicity of combination versus single agent therapy.
Platinum-resistant disease Many drugs have shown
activity in this setting with response rates ranging from 6%
to 40%. Single agent therapy is commonly chosen because
although combination therapy may yield higher response
rates, toxicities are greater and no OS benefit has been
achieved. The most commonly used second-line agents are
pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (caelyx), topotecan, and
gemcitabine. The use of caelyx is associated with skin toxicity, but at a dosage of 40 mg/m2 on a four weekly i.v.
schedule it is generally well tolerated, with no apparent
reduction in efficacy compared to the recommended dosage of 50 mg/m2. Etoposide, vinorelbine, oxaliplatin, and
capecitabine have also shown some activity. There is evidence of a lack of cross-resistance between topotecan and
paclitaxel (37). Topotecan is associated with a high incidence
of hematological toxicity which along with the inconvenient five-day intravenous schedule limits its acceptability
in a palliative setting. There are data suggesting the potential for gemcitabine to modify platinum resistance and this
requires further investigation. A GOG Phase II study of oral
etoposide demonstrated a response rate of 32% in patients
who had prior platinum and pacitaxel (38). However, hematological toxicity can be severe with etoposide as illustrated
by the study above where 45% Grade 3–4 neutropenia and
three treatment-related deaths were noted. Response rates
of 22–30% with single agent paclitaxel in phase II and III
trials of women with platinum-resistant EOC have been
achieved. There is evidence for weekly paclitaxel therapy
maintaining efficacy while minimizing toxicity, especially
myelosuppression (39).
Endocrine therapy Although over 70% of epithelial
ovarian cancers express estrogen and/or progesterone receptors (PRs), treatment with tamoxifen or LHRH agonists has
shown only modest activity. A Cochrane Review of tamoxifen efficacy in relapsed ovarian cancer demonstrated an
overall response rate of 9.6% and stable disease for more
than four weeks in an additional 32% (40). Aromatase
inhibitors have recently been investigated in Phase II trials
of patients with recurrent ovarian cancer. A Phase II trial
of letrozole in women with ER-positive EOC, demonstrated
radiological response in 9% and disease stabilization at
12 weeks in 42% of women. A fall in CA-125 (>50%) was
detected in 17% of patients. Interestingly, the CA125 response
rate was highest in women who had higher estrogen receptor (ER) expression (41). The efficacy of AIs in combination
with biological agents (e.g., EGFR and HER2 inhibitors)
remains to be determined. Given the relatively favorable
tolerability of AIs, further investigation of the role of these
agents in prolonging platinum-free interval in recurrence
ovarian cancer is warranted.

112

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Surgical Resection for Relapsed Ovarian Cancer
The place of “secondary debulking” for recurrent ovarian cancer has been greatly debated. Data from mainly
retrospective series show that patients in whom optimal
secondary debulking is achieved have a survival advantage. Women who are offered surgical management tend
to have more favorable disease characteristics and any survival benefit may be a reflection of favorable tumor biology
that permits optimal debulking rather than the surgical
procedure itself. The AGO-DESKTOP OVAR trial determined that good performance status, no residual disease
postprimary surgery, early stage at diagnosis, and no ascites
at recurrence predicted optimal resection almost 80% of the
time (42). Results from Phase III trials evaluating the role
of surgical management in combination with chemotherapy are eagerly awaited (LOROCSON, EORTC 55963).

Treatment of Bowel Obstruction
Bowel obstruction especially, involving the small intestine
(acute or intermittent subacute), is a common problem
faced by patients with end-stage ovarian cancer. Management requires a multidisciplinary approach by a team comprising palliative care specialists, surgeons, dieticians, nurses,
and medical oncologists. The role of surgery as palliation
for malignant bowel obstruction is well recognized, but
palliative surgery is associated with a perioperative mortality of 10–15%, and 35–38% of patients do not gain any
clinical benefit. It is important to identify suitable patients
who are likely to benefit from chemotherapy despite a compromised performance status. Patients with newly diagnosed disease (chemotherapy-naive) and those who have
relapsed after a long treatment-free interval are likely to
respond to chemotherapy with symptomatic relief from
bowel obstruction; otherwise, the role of chemotherapy is
very limited in this situation.

agents such as low-dose oral cyclophosphamide in Phase
II trials. Other angiogenesis inhibitors are under evaluation, including oral VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors
such as cediranib, pazopanib, and sunitinib. Phase II data
indicate a degree of efficacy for each of these and further
trials involving combination and maintenance strategies
(e.g., ICON-6) are underway in platinum-sensitive relapsed
disease.
Poly(ADP)Ribose Polymerase (PARP) Inhibitors. Carriers
of BRCA mutations are at risk of developing ovarian cancer (10–40% lifetime risk) and tumors arising in these individuals harbor DNA repair defects. PARP inhibitors work
by generating double strand DNA breaks that require functional BRCA1 and BRCA2 proteins for efficient DNA repair.
Cancers with dysfunctional BRCA proteins are therefore
sensitive to single agent PARP inhibitor treatment. Preliminary observations from patients with BRCA mutations
and ovarian cancer in a Phase I trial of PARP inhibition
are encouraging and indicate low toxicities and promising
radiological and serological clinical responses (45). Phase
II trials of this drug in BRCA carriers with breast and/or
ovarian cancer are ongoing. PARP inhibition could be more
widely applicable in the treatment of sporadic ovarian
cancers as BRCA dysfunction is relatively common.

Novel agents designed to target tumor cells and/or the
microenvironment by exploiting specific molecular abnormalities in the tumor hold the promise of greater selectivity and lower toxicity than traditional modalities such as
chemotherapy.

Other Signaling Molecules. Preclinical evidence suggests that EGFR and HER2 are potential targets in ovarian
cancer. However, results from Phase II trials of erlotinib,
gefitinib (EGFR inhibitors), trastuzumab (targeting HER2),
and pertuzumab (HER2 dimerization inhibitor) have all
been relatively disappointing. EGFR and/or HER2 inhibitors
combined with chemotherapy may further improve the
efficiency of chemotherapy and final results from clinical
trials addressing this are awaited. Multiple components of
signaling cascades are aberrant in ovarian cancer and drugs
under development that target these critical molecules
include various examples of the PI3 kinase/AKT pathway
(such as mTOR inhibitors), the Src pathway, and others.
The folate receptor is overexpressed in >90% of ovarian cancers and MORab-003 (Morphotek Inc.), a monoclonal antibody directed against the folate receptor, is being evaluated
in a Phase II trial of recurrent platinum-sensitive disease.

Angiogenesis Inhibitors. Bevacizumab, a monoclonal
antibody against Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor
(VEGF-A), is the first targeted agent to show significant
single agent activity in ovarian carcinoma. A Phase II trial
recently demonstrated a response rate and six-month PFS
rate of 21% and 40%, respectively, in platinum-sensitive
recurrent ovarian cancer (43). The activity of bevacizumab
in ovarian cancer was confirmed in a second Phase II
study in which a response rate of 16% and a 6 month PFS
of 28% was observed in patients with platinum resistant
disease (44). However, this trial was closed prematurely
because of an unacceptable frequency of bowel perforations (11%). It seems likely that this risk can be ameliorated by avoiding the use of bevacizumab in patients with
extensive bowel involvement. Two Phase III trials (GOG
218 and ICON7) of bevacizumab in combination with
carboplatin–paclitaxel in front-line ovarian cancer therapy
are ongoing. Bevacizumab is being evaluated in combination with anti-EGF therapy (erlotinib) and also cytotoxic

Immunotherapy. The host immune response is important in the clinical outcome of ovarian cancer. Immunomodulatory strategies such as monoclonal antibodies against
tumor antigens and treatments against T regulatory cells
are under evaluation. MAb/B43.13 (oregovomab) is a monoclonal antibody directed against CA-125, which is being
studied as consolidation therapy postadjuvant treatment
for ovarian cancer. Although a randomized trial of this
agent versus placebo showed no alteration in time to progression, unplanned subset analysis revealed that patients
who were optimally debulked and who achieved rapid
serological response to chemotherapy derived increased
benefit from Mab/B43.13 (46). Phase III trials looking at
this specific population are in progress (IMPACT I and II).
Denileukin difitox (Ontak) is a fusion protein between the
diphtheria toxin and IL2 designed to downregulate T regulatory cells thereby enhancing host immunity against
tumor cells. This approach is being tested in a Phase I/II
trial of ovarian cancer.

Novel Therapies

Chapter 6:

Clear Cell Carcinoma of the Ovary
Clear cell carcinoma (CCC) of the ovary is a distinct histological subtype of EOC characterized by glycogen-containing
clear cells and hobnail cells. CCC is associated with a high
incidence of Stage I disease (especially Ic), large pelvic mass,
endometriosis, thromboembolic complications, and hypercalcemia. CCC is rare in Europe and the United States
(incidence 3–6%), however the incidence in Japan is more
than 20%. CCC appears to be more resistant to platinumbased chemotherapy compared with serous and endometrioid subtypes of EOC and studies suggest that the survival
rates are worse for patients with CCC. Primary cytoreductive surgery with maximum effort is the recommended
treatment. A CCC-specific international clinical trial (GCIG/
JGOG3017 trial) comparing carboplatin–paclitaxel with
cisplatin–irinotecan is ongoing and aims to identify the
optimal chemotherapy regimen for CCC.

Germ Cell Tumors of the Ovary
Epidemiology, Etiology, and Pathology
Ovarian germ cell tumors (OGCTs) which may be benign
or malignant, arise from primordial germ cells and exhibit
a spectrum of histological differentiation. Malignant germ
cell tumors account for less than 5% of all ovarian malignancies. However, they represent 70% of ovarian tumors
in females between 10 and 30 years of age. The etiology of
malignant OGCTs is unclear but high prepregnancy body
mass and use of exogenous hormones during pregnancy
have been associated with higher risk. OGCTs do not appear
to have a hereditary component unlike epithelial ovarian
cancers.
These tumors may be divided into two main groups:
Dysgerminomas arising from primitive undifferentiated
germ cells.
Nondysgerminoma-embryonal carcinoma; yolk sac tumor/
endodermal sinus tumor; choriocarcinoma; teratoma.

Clinical Features
Presenting features include abdominal pain and/or distension, palpable mass, abnormal vaginal bleeding, symptoms
of pregnancy (from hCG production), and, rarely, amenorrhea and precocious puberty. Patients can present with an
acute abdomen due to torsion, infection, or rupture. OGCTs
grow rapidly yet, in contrast to EOC, most tumors present
at an early stage often confined to one ovary (Stage IA).

Diagnosis and Staging
Surgery is required for definitive histological diagnosis
although abnormally high tumor markers, clinical symptoms and signs, and the radiological appearances on ultrasound make the preoperative diagnosis extremely likely.
Serum tumor markers provide highly sensitive and
specific markers for the presence of certain histologic components of OGCTs. Serum AFP is generally elevated in
patients with yolk sac tumor, and sometimes in embryonal
carcinoma and immature teratoma. HCG is elevated in
choriocarcinoma and embryonal carcinoma. Mixed germ
cell tumors may contain embryonal cell, choriocarcinoma
or yolk sac components and so can produce both markers.

Gynecological Cancer

113

Dysgerminomas are associated with a normal AFP. They
may, however, produce lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) or
small amounts of hCG.
Staging of malignant OGCTs requires surgery and is
according to the International Federation of Gynecologists
and Obstetricians (FIGO) staging system for epithelial ovarian cancer. Surgical staging includes total omentectomy,
appendicectomy, peritoneal biopsies, and lymph node
sampling. Pelvic ultrasound and CT scan are useful to
assess intra-abdominal and lymph node metastases. Nodal
involvement is more common with malignant OGCTs
compared to EOC, and they have a greater tendency to
metastasize to the liver and lung.

Management
The principles of surgical management are the same for all
malignant OGCTs. Most women with malignant OGCTs
are young and wish to preserve future childbearing capacity. Therefore, the current management emphasizes initial conservative surgery- unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy
with preservation of the uterus and the contralateral ovary
if these organs appear normal. Women who have completed childbearing undergo total abdominal hysterectomy
and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. For patients with
advanced tumors, optimal cytoreductive surgery improves
outcomes. However, OGCTs are chemosensitive and so the
benefits and risks of aggressive surgical cytoreductive procedures for metastatic disease must be carefully considered.
Malignant OGCTs, especially teratoma, are usually
very sensitive to platinum-based chemotherapy. At least
90% of patients with early stage OGCT, and approximately
75–80% of those with advanced disease are long-term survivors. The recommended approach for both early stage
and more advanced OGCTs is postoperative chemotherapy
with three or four courses of bleomycin, etoposide, and
cisplatin (BEP) with the exception of those with Stage I
Grade 1 immature teratomas and Stage IA dysgerminomas.
Despite the lack of randomized trials, several series have
demonstrated that long-term survival rates with surgery
followed by adjuvant BEP are in the order of 95–100% for
early-stage nondysgerminomatous tumors and 75–80% for
those with advanced disease at presentation. Results are
even more favorable for ovarian dysgerminomas, regardless of stage at presentation. An alternative platinum-based
regimen is POMBACE which aims to reduce the risk of
drug resistance by alternating a relatively nonmyelosuppressive combination (cisplatin, vincristine, methotrexate,
bleomycin, and folinic acid) with a more myelosuppressive
triplet (actinomycin-D, cyclophosphamide, and etoposide).
Trials have shown a three-year survival rate of 88%. Furthermore, this regimen appears to be effective as second-line
chemotherapy for recurrent disease with 50% of patients
salvaged at relapse (47).
It is important that full doses of all of the component
drugs are administered at the scheduled time to ensure
that the curative potential of systemic chemotherapy is not
compromised. The full extent of long-term sequelae of chemotherapy on survivors are still to be determined. Most
women who receive three or four courses of standard dose
therapy will recover normal ovarian function, and fertility
is often preserved. However, there is a risk of secondary
malignancies such as leukemias following chemotherapy,

114

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

in particular etoposide, which appears to be dose related.
Studies are addressing prognostic factors that may permit
risk stratification for future treatment choices in OGCT.

ENDOMETRIAL CANCER
Epidemiology and Etiology
Endometrial cancer is the second most common gynecological malignancy in the United Kingdom. Over 6000 cases
are diagnosed every year and endometrial cancer accounts
for 1650 deaths annually. The incidence of endometrial
cancer is rising in postmenopausal women but five-year
survival rates have improved to more than 75%.
Various factors are associated with an increased risk
of developing endometrial cancer. Estrogen exposure either
from exogenous or endogenous sources in the absence of
adequate exposure to progestins has been linked to endometrial cancer. Several case-control and prospective studies
have shown an increased incidence of endometrial carcinoma with estrogen replacement therapy, the relative risk
ranging from 3.1 to 15. The risk is related to both estrogen
dose and duration of use and can be significantly reduced
by the concomitant administration of progestins. Tamoxifen
use is also associated with the disease. Endometrial cancer
usually occurs in postmenopausal women—the median age
at diagnosis is 65 years. Twenty-five percent of cases are
diagnosed in premenopausal women, and 5–10% of these
are in women under age 40.

Pathology
Most endometrial cancers are of epithelial origin. The
histological cell types can be classified as follows:
Endometrioid adenocarcinomas (Type I)
Nonendometrioid adenocarcinomas (Type II)—papillary
serous, clear cell
The most common type (80% of cases) of endometrial cancer
is endometrioid adenocarcinoma. Endometrioid histology

Table 6.3
by Stage

is associated with unopposed estrogen, endometrial hyperplasia, and a younger age at diagnosis. Papillary serous and
CCC account for 5–10% of cases and do not appear to be
hormone related. They are highly aggressive tumors that
commonly present at a more advanced stage. Mixed carcinomas are composed of serous and endometrioid components. Rarer types include mucinous and squamous cell
carcinoma.
Molecular studies show that endometrioid tumors
have a different genetic profile to nonendometrioid tumors
(48). Microsatellite instability and specific mutations of
PTEN, and K-ras genes are more characteristic of endometrioid tumors, while p53 mutations and HER2/neu
overexpression predominate in nonendometrioid tumors.
Endometrioid carcinomas show expression of both estrogen
receptor (ER) and PR in about 90% of cases, with decreasing expression at higher grade. Tumors of serous histology
express ER in 31% of cases and PR in 12% and CCC rarely
express either receptor. In addition to cell type, three grades
of differentiation are recognized: well (Grade I), moderate
(Grade II), and poorly (Grade III) differentiated.

Clinical Features, Diagnosis, and Staging
The main presenting symptom is postmenopausal vaginal
bleeding. However, 20% of cases occur in premenopausal
women and so the signs may be subtle.
Diagnosis is confirmed on histological assessment.
Tissue may be obtained by hysteroscopy with dilation and
curettage (D&C) or endometrial biopsy using a Pipelle
sampling device. Additional investigations include transvaginal ultrasound, CT, and MRI. Tumors may spread by
direct extension into the myometrial wall and endocervix,
lymphatic, or hematogenous routes.
Endometrial carcinoma is surgically staged according
to the FIGO system (Table 6.3). Surgical staging includes
hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, cytologic
examination of peritoneal fluid, biopsy of any suspicious
IP or retroperitoneal lesions, and retroperitoneal lymph
node sampling. Synchronous primary cancers of the endometrium occur in 5% of cases.

International Federation of Gynecologists and Obstetricians (FIGO) Stage Grouping for Endometrial Carcinoma and Five-Year Survival

Stage

Description

I
Ia
Ib
Ic
II
IIa
IIb
III
IIIa
IIIb
IIIc
IV
IVa
IVb

Limited to corpus
Limited to endometrium
Invasion of less than half of myometrium
Invasion of more than half of myometrium
Involvement of the cervix
Glandular involvement only
Cervical stromal involvement
Spread outside of uterus, confined to pelvis (excluding rectum or bladder)
Involvement of uterine serosa, adnexa(e), positive peritoneal cytology
Spread to vagina
Spread to retroperitoneal nodes
Spread to bladder, rectum, distant sites
Involvement of bladder and/or rectal mucosa
Distant, intra-abdominal spread, inguinal nodes

Data from 6th Annual FIGO Report: Patients Treated 1999–2001.

5-year survival (%)
91
91
85
83
74
66
50
57
26
20

Chapter 6:

Gynecological Cancer

Management of Early-Stage Disease

Management of Advanced/Recurrent Disease

Treatment recommendations for women with endometrial
cancer depend upon the estimated risk of recurrent disease,
which is based upon surgical stage and tumor grade.
Primary treatment is surgery comprising TAH and BSO.
The role of lymphadenectomy remains controversial
although it is recommended for accurate staging according
to the FIGO criteria. Some clinicians believe that the morbidity associated with the procedure outweighs the benefits
when the likelihood of nodal disease is very low, such as in
low risk Stage I disease. Preliminary results from A Study
in the Treatment of Endometrial Cancer (ASTEC) trial
support this view. Women were randomly assigned to conventional surgery or conventional surgery plus lymphadenectomy; both groups had a similar three-year survival
(49). Women with Grade 1 or 2 histology and Stage IA or
IB endometrial cancer are considered “low-risk” for recurrence and TAH/BSO is the appropriate management. Stage
IC and Grade 3 tumors (IA or IB) are of “intermediate risk.”
The role of adjuvant radiotherapy for intermediate-risk
early-stage endometrial cancer is controversial. Prospective
trials [e.g., Post Operative Radiation Therapy in Endometrial Cancer (PORTEC) and MRC ASTEC and NCIC CTG
EN.5 trial] demonstrate that adjuvant radiotherapy
reduces pelvic failure rates in women with early-stage
endometrial cancer but there is no evidence that survival
rates are improved (50). The decision whether to treat an
individual patient with radiation is dependent on careful
surgical staging and assessment of the benefits and risks
of treatment.
The outcome of women with high-risk disease (Stage
IC, Grade 3, Stage IIA and above, lymphovascular space
or lower uterine segment involvement, and papillary serous
or clear cell histology) is poor with surgery alone and
women are offered adjuvant therapy. Recently, results
from GOG 122 trial showed a survival benefit for adjuvant
chemotherapy as compared to whole abdominal radiotherapy (WART) in women with Stage III–IVa disease. Three
hundred and ninety six women with Stage III or IV endometrial cancer were randomly assigned to WART (30 Gy
in 20 fractions, with a 15 Gy pelvic + paraaortic node boost)
or postoperative chemotherapy (doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 plus
cisplatin 50 mg/m2 every three weeks for seven courses,
followed by an additional course of cisplatin). There was
a statistically significant benefit for chemotherapy in terms
of disease progression (stage-adjusted progression hazard
ratio [HR] relative to WART 0.71), which translated into a
12% increase in five-year PFS (50% vs. 38%). There was
also a significant survival benefit that favored chemotherapy (HR for death relative to WART 0.68), which translated
into a 13% improvement in five-year OS (55% vs. 42 %)
(51). The chemotherapy group had significantly more acute
Grade 3–4 adverse events (hematological and cardiac). The
best chemotherapy regimen and duration have not been
defined, and toxicity may be significant. Chemotherapy
regimens include carboplatin–paclitaxel and doxorubicin–
cisplatin–paclitaxel.
A subset of patients may be unable to undergo TAH/
BSO due to comorbid conditions or poor performance status. In these, primary radiotherapy is the treatment of
choice and as external beam radiotherapy may be poorly
tolerated by this group, brachytherapy may be preferable
to treat disease confined to the uterus.

Endocrine Therapy

115

There is a rationale for using hormone therapy in advanced
or recurrent endometrial carcinoma because some tumors
express estrogen and/or progesterone receptors and these
are independent predictive factors for response to endocrine
treatment. Hormone therapy is a particularly attractive
option for the treatment of advanced endometrial cancer
because it is well tolerated and lacks the usual toxicities
associated with cytotoxic chemotherapy. Progestin therapy,
for example, medroxyprogesterone acetate, offers a 10–20%
response rate. Low-grade histology, expression of ER and/
or PR and a long treatment-free interval predict a favorable
response (52). Tamoxifen can be effective in women with
advanced endometrial cancer in women with hormone
receptor positive tumors. Whether tamoxifen is superior to
a progestin for initial hormone therapy is unclear. Combinations of tamoxifen and progestins have also been studied, although none of the trials selected patients on the
basis of hormone receptor expression. Randomized Phase
II trials have shown response rates of 27–33% (53). Aromatase inhibitors have shown limited activity in advanced
endometrial cancer.

Chemotherapy
Cytotoxic chemotherapy agents can be used alone or in
combination. Doxorubicin, cisplatin, carboplatin docetaxel,
and topotecan have all shown activity as monotherapy
with response rates from 17% to 28%. Paclitaxel has been
reported to have response rates of 27–37%. Various
combination regimens that include doxorubicin and/or a
platinum have been investigated. However, randomized
trials have failed to show any survival benefit with combinations of doxorubicin plus either cyclophosphamide or
cisplatin compared to single agent doxorubicin. These
combinations are associated with toxicity in terms of
myelosuppression and vomiting. Furthermore, cisplatincontaining schedules can be time consuming and inconvenient due to the hydration required and, in elderly
patients, anthracycline-induced congestive cardiac failure
is a concern. Trials have compared paclitaxel-based
versus nonpaclitaxel-containing combination regimens
and two of these suggest a survival benefit for paclitaxelcontaining therapy. The GOG trial 177, randomly assigned
women with Stage III/IV or recurrent endometrial cancer
to doxorubicin (60 mg/m2) plus cisplatin (50 mg/m2), or
the three drug combination of doxorubicin (45 mg/m2 on
day 1), cisplatin (50 mg/m2 on day 1) plus paclitaxel
(160 mg/m2 over three hours on day 2) with hematopoietic colony-stimulating factor support (TAP) (54). Response
rates were significantly higher with TAP (57% vs. 34%),
as was median PFS (eight vs. five months) and OS (15 vs.
12 months). However, TAP was associated with more
Grade 3 neuropathy and Grade 3 symptomatic heart
failure. Paclitaxel plus carboplatin is an alternative less
toxic combination than TAP. The GOG is currently conducting a randomized equivalency trial of TAP versus
carboplatin–paclitaxel in women with advanced and
recurrent endometrial cancer.
Platinum resistance or refractory disease carries a
poor prognosis in endometrial cancer. Second-line single
agents have low response rates (less than 10%). Paclitaxel

116

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

rechallenge has been associated with 37% overall response
rate and 22% in platinum-refractory patients (55).

Future Approaches
There is growing interest in targeted biological therapies
for endometrial cancer management. Multiple components
of signaling cascades have been identified as aberrant in
endometrial cancer through the well-recognized increase in
PTEN dysfunction in this disease; examples include the
mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) which is critical
for proliferation. The mTOR inhibitors have shown encouraging single agent activity in Phase II trials of advanced
endometrial cancer. Their precise mechanism of action is
unclear, and may involve their antiangiogenic properties.
Trials of other antiangiogenic agents such as bevacizumab,
sunitinib, and VEGF-Trap are currently underway. HER2,
a transmembrane receptor, appears to be overexpressed
in 17–50% of uterine serous papillary carcinomas. These
results raise the potential for future therapeutic strategies
targeting HER2 with the anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody,
trastuzumab, or the orally active EGFR/HER2 tyrosine
kinase inhibitor, lapatanib.

Carcinosarcoma of the Uterus
Sarcomas may also arise from the endometrium or myometrium and are associated with a poorer prognosis than
endometrial carcinoma. Carcinosarcomas (malignant mixed
mullerian tumors) are the most common form of uterine
sarcoma and consist of both epithelial (usually papillary
serous) and sarcomatous elements. These tumors are
treated in a similar fashion to papillary serous and clear
cell tumors. Surgery is the main form of treatment for
early-stage carcinosarcoma. Few studies have addressed
the effects of adjuvant therapy in individual histological
subtypes of sarcoma. Nevertheless, there is evidence supporting the use of adjuvant radiotherapy and cisplatinbased chemotherapy. Several agents and combinations
have shown activity in recurrent or metastatic disease and
include carboplatin–paclitaxel, paclitaxel–ifosfamide, and
doxorubicin–cyclophoshamide.

CARCINOMA OF THE UTERINE CERVIX
Epidemiology
Cancer of the cervix is the eleventh most common malignancy among women in the United Kingdom and the third
most common gynecological malignancy accounting for 2%
of female cancers. Over 3200 women are diagnosed with
cervical cancer in the United Kingdom every year and
around 1200 women die from this disease annually. The
incidence rate is 10.6 per 100,000 and the lifetime risk of
developing cervical cancer is 1 in 116. The peak incidence
of cervical cancer is 40–50 years. The incidence and mortality rates of cervical cancer are falling in developed countries but there is a marked increase in the number of
women with preinvasive cancer. In contrast, cervical cancer
is the second most common cause of cancer-related morbidity and mortality among women in developing countries. This discrepancy is mainly due to the institution of
cervical cancer screening programs which is now widespread in developed countries, but is very limited in many
developing countries.

Etiology and Risk Factors
Sexual activity is the dominant risk factor for cervical
neoplasia. The major factor causing these disorders is infection with the human papillomavirus (HPV). Most HPV
infections occur in young women and are transient and the
majority of women infected with HPV do not develop highgrade cervical lesions or cancer. High-risk HPV subtypes,
such as 16 and 18, are strongly associated with high-grade
lesions, persistence, and progression to invasive cancer,
although they may also be associated with low-grade
lesions. Cofactors in the pathogenesis of cervical cancer
include immunosuppression (HIV, immunosuppressive
therapy) and cigarette smoking. In contrast to squamous
cell cancer of the cervix, cigarette smoking is not associated
with an increased risk of adenocarcinoma of the cervix
compared to nonsmokers. Herpes simplex virus (HSV),
chlamydia infection, and oral contraceptive use have been
implicated as cofactors that increase the risk of cervical
carcinoma in women who are HPV positive; it is possibility that these factors are surrogate markers of HPV exposure rather than causal factors. It may take 15 years from
initial HPV infection to development of CIN 3 and invasive
cancer.
Observational evidence consistently demonstrates
that introduction of cervical cytology screening programs
decreases cervical cancer mortality. As compared with
cytology [Papanicolaou (Pap) test], HPV testing was shown
to have greater sensitivity (94.6% vs. 55.4%) but lower
specificity (94.1% vs. 96.8%) for the detection of cervical
intraepithelial neoplasia compared with Pap testing (56).
The POBASCAM trial concluded that HPV DNA and Pap
testing led to earlier detection of CIN 3 and cancerous
lesions than Pap testing alone (57). Currently, Pap smear
screening from age 25–65 is the U.K. recommendation.

HPV Vaccines
The introduction of targeted HPV protection with the
bivalent (HPV 16/18 L1 virus-like particle vaccine) or quadrivalent vaccine (HPV 6/11/16/18 L1 VLP vaccine) is
anticipated to have a significant impact on the risk for
precancerous lesions and invasive cancer. Multicenter,
double-blind, placebo-controlled trials for both quadrivalent (58) and bivalent (59) HPV vaccines have demonstrated
efficacy in terms of incident and persistent infection and
CIN. Both vaccines have an excellent safety profile.
The FUTURE II trial was a Phase III, prospective,
double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial with over 12,000
women aged 15–26 years. Participants were randomly
assigned to receive a three-dose regimen of quadrivalent
vaccine or placebo. This study demonstrated that HPV vaccination to HPV-naive women could substantially reduce
the incidence of HPV16/18-related cervical precancers and
cervical cancer. Vaccine efficacy for the prevention of CIN
2 or 3, adenocarcinoma in situ, or cervical cancer related
to HPV-16 or HPV-18 was 98% in the “susceptible” (HPV
naive) population and 44% in an intention-to-treat population (those with or without previous infection) (60). The
FUTURE I trial was a Phase III placebo-controlled trial
conducted in 5455 women aged 16–24 years to assess
the efficacy of quadrivalent vaccine to prevent HPVrelated anogenital disease (61). Similar to FUTURE II,
vaccine efficacy was 100% in preventing CIN grades 1–3

Chapter 6:

117

Gynecological Cancer

or adenocarcinoma in situ in women who were HPV naive.
There was no clear evidence that vaccination altered the
course of disease or infection present before administration
of the first dose of vaccine in both FUTURE I and II trials.
These data reinforce the use of the HPV vaccine as a prophylactic, and not as a therapeutic immunization. HPV
vaccine is a major advance in the prevention of cervical
cancer, but it will not replace, at least for some considerable
time, the need for cervical screening.

chemotherapy and radiation. The rationale for combining
these modalities is that cisplatin-based chemotherapy may
synergize with radiation by inhibiting the repair of radiation-induced sublethal damage and by sensitizing hypoxic
cells to radiation damage. The combination of surgery and
radiotherapy ideally should be avoided because of the
greater risk of morbidity, particularly urological, compared
to either treatment used alone.

Clinical Features, Diagnosis, and Staging

Management of Early-Stage Disease

Early cervical cancer is frequently asymptomatic highlighting the importance of screening. Symptoms may include
abnormal vaginal bleeding after coitus, discharge, pelvic
pain, and dyspareunia. Examination findings can range
from a normal appearing cervix with an isolated abnormal
cervical cytology smear, to a grossly abnormal cervix that
is replaced entirely with tumor. The diagnosis is confirmed
with biopsies taken at colposcopy or examination under
anesthetic and histological evaluation. Radiological investigations (CT or MRI scans) are undertaken to assess the
urinary tract and determine the extent of disease. Staging
of cervical cancer is by the FIGO system (Table 6.4).

Management
Treatment options are surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy and depend on factors such as the stage of disease,
size of the tumor and the fitness of the patient.
The two main methods of radiotherapy delivery for
cervical cancer are external photon beam radiotherapy
and brachytherapy. The volume encompassed by external
radiotherapy should include the lymph nodes with the
primary tumor. Intrauterine brachytherapy permits the
delivery of a high central dose to the primary tumor while
sparing the surrounding normal tissue and can be delivered
using an intracavitary approach (more commonly used)
with a variety of applicators, or via an interstitial approach
using needles or after loading catheters. Radiotherapy can
lead to changes such as vaginal shortening, stenosis, and
decreased vaginal lubrication adversely affecting overall
quality of life and psychosexual well-being following treatment. Chemoradiotherapy refers to the combination of

Table 6.4
by Stage

The treatment options for early-stage cervical cancer are
surgery or chemoradiotherapy. A surgical approach (hysterectomy or trachelectomy) is generally used for younger
women with stage Ia, Ib, and IIa disease in whom preservation of fertility is desired. The risk of nodal metastatic
spread increases with stage. Lymphadenectomy is not performed for Stage Ia1 disease; pelvic lymphadenectomy
is offered to patients with Stage IA2 or IB1; pelvic and
paraaortic lymphadenectomies are undertaken in patients
with IB2/IIA tumors. The main argument against a primary surgical approach is the high likelihood for multimodal therapy since the majority of women will be found
to have high-risk (positive or close resection margins,
positive lymph node or microscopic parametrial involvement) or intermediate-risk [tumor >4 cm, deep cervical
stromal invasion (to the middle or deep one-third), lymphovascular space invasion] factors for recurrence after
surgery and so postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy or
chemoradiotherapy will be recommended. The benefit of
chemoradiation over adjuvant radiotherapy alone was
shown in a randomized trial that assigned women with highrisk, localized cervical cancer following radical hysterectomy
to radiotherapy with or without four cycles of cisplatin/5-FU
chemotherapy. The use of chemotherapy was associated
with a significantly better four year OS (81% vs. 71%) and
progression-free survival (PFS, 80% vs. 63%) (62).
Definitive primary chemoradiotherapy is an alternative option. Radical hysterectomy plus pelvic/paraaortic
lymphadenectomy and definitive radiotherapy have been
shown to be equally effective in Stage IB2 and IIA disease,
but differ in associated morbidity and complications (63).
Survival benefits of cisplatin-based chemoradiotherapy

International Federation of Gynecologists and Obstetricians (FIGO) Stage Grouping for Cervical Cancer and Five-Year Survival

Stage

Description

I Confined to the cervix

Invasive cancer identified microscopically
Stromal invasion <3 mm depth and <7 mm width
Stromal invasion >3 mm and <5 mm depth and <7 mm width
Lesions <4 cm
Lesions >4 cm
Extends to upper two-thirds of vagina, Not parametria
Parametrail involvement, excluding pelvic side wall
Lower third of vagina
Pelvic sidewall or hydronephrosis
Spread to adjacent pelvic organs
Spread to distant organs

Ia
Ia1
Ia2
Ib1
Ib2
II Extends beyond cervix, excluding lower third of
IIa
vagina or pelvic wall
IIb
III Pelvic sidewall involvement, lower third of vagina or IIIa
causing hydronephrosis
IIIb
IV Extension beyond true pelvis or involvement of
IVa
bladder mucosa or rectum
IVb
Data from 6th Annual FIGO report: Patients Treated 1999–2001.

5-year survival (%)
98
95
89
76
73
66
40
42
22
9

118

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

compared to radiotherapy alone for locally advanced cervical cancer have been shown in randomized trials and in a
meta-analysis. The meta-analysis included 4921 patients and
showed a 10% OS benefit for chemoradiation compared to
radiotherapy alone (64). Weekly cisplatin during radiotherapy may be a better option due to comparable efficacy
and more favorable toxicity profile compared to cisplatin
and 5-FU and this is currently our practice (65).

ovary, breast, or rectum. The etiology of primary vaginal
cancer is unknown, although vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia (VAIN) is considered to have malignant potential.
The risk factors for VAIN are the same as in CIN: multiple
lifetime sexual partners, early age at first intercourse,
current smoker, and HPV infection. Chronic irritation (e.g.,
Procidentia or pessary use) may be an underlying cause.
Women exposed as fetuses to diethylstilboestrol are at risk
of developing clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina.

Management of Disseminated Cervical Cancer
Radiotherapy may be useful to palliate the symptoms of
pelvic pain or bleeding from advanced disease. Large fraction, short course radiotherapy may also be used for local
treatment of symptoms related to metastatic disease, such
as alleviation of pain from skeletal metastases, or symptoms associated with brain lesions. Several single chemotherapy agents and combination regimens are active in
patients with metastatic disease or recurrences that are not
amenable to local therapy. Agents include cisplatin (23%),
paclitaxel (17%), ifosfamide (22%), vinorelbine (15%), and
topotecan (19%). Cisplatin at 50 mg/m2 has been shown to
give response rates of 17–38% and median OS of six to
seven months. The benefit for combination chemotherapy
(cisplatin–paclitaxel, cisplatin–ifosfamide, cisplatin–topotecan)
as compared to single agent cisplatin has been demonstrated in randomized trials. A survival benefit was seen
with the cisplatin (50 mg/m2 every three weeks) topotecan
(0.75 mg/m2 days 1 to 3 every three weeks) combination.
Compared to cisplatin alone, the topotecan–cisplatin group
had a significantly higher response rate (27% vs. 13%),
PFS (4.6 vs. 2.9 months), and median survival (9.4 vs.
6.5 months), but significantly more toxicity (70% vs. 1%
grade 3 or 4 neutropenia). Despite this, the quality of life
was not worse with cisplatin/topotecan compared to cisplatin (66). The combination of cisplatin–paclitaxel compared to cisplatin alone was associated with a higher
response rate (36% vs. 19%), median PFS (4.8 vs. 2.8 months),
and no difference in quality of life (67). Ongoing studies
are exploring the role of taxanes in the treatment of cervical cancer. Currently, patients with advanced cervical cancer
are offered palliative chemotherapy with either cisplatin
and topotecan or cisplatin and three weekly paclitaxel.
Novel agents such as EGFR inhibitors and antiangiogenic agents are being studied in cervical cancer. A
retrospective analysis of bevacizumab in combination with
chemotherapy in women with heavily pretreated recurrent
cervical cancer showed a clinical benefit rate of 67% (68).
Results of prospective trials of bevacizumab in combination
with chemotherapy and/or radiation are awaited.

CARCINOMA OF THE VAGINA
Epidemiology and Etiology
Primary cancer of the vagina is rare and comprises 0.3%
of all gynecological cancers. There are 240 new cases and
100 deaths per year in the United Kingdom; the annual
incidence is 1 per 100,000 women. About 90% of vaginal
cancers are squamous cell carcinomas and 5% are adenocarcinomas with rarer types including melanoma and sarcoma. The most common site is the upper third of the
vagina. Metastatic disease to the vagina is not uncommon
and can arise from cancer of the endometrium, cervix, vulva,

Clinical Features
Most cases are diagnosed at an advanced stage and present
with postmenopausal or postcoital vaginal bleeding. Other
manifestations include vaginal discharge, vaginal mass,
urinary symptoms, and pelvic pain. Some cases are asymptomatic at diagnosis and are picked up as a result of
screening for cervical cancer.

Diagnosis and Staging
Definitive diagnosis is accomplished by biopsy of the suspected lesion. Patients should be referred immediately to
a gynecological oncologist. Examination under anesthesia
is important and allows assessment of the bladder and
rectum. Other investigations include radiology of the renal
tract and CT scans of the abdomen and pelvis.
Tumors are staged clinically, based upon the abovementioned investigations. The FIGO staging and five-year
survival rates are shown in Table 6.5. Vaginal tumors
may invade locally and disseminate via direct extension,
lymphatic, or hematogenous routes.

Management
Treatment plans are individualized depending upon the
location, size, and clinical stage of the tumor. The proximity of the bladder, urethra, and rectum to the vagina limits
the administration of high-dose radiation. In addition, local
anatomical constraints may not permit wide negative surgical margins without an exenterative procedure. Psychosexual issues of the patient also need to be considered.
The main treatment modality is radiotherapy. The
treatment of Stage I lesions that are greater than 2 cm in
diameter and patients with Stage II–IV disease is external
beam radiation with or without intracavitary or interstitial
brachytherapy. More superficial lesions may be treated with

Table 6.5 International Federation of Gynecologists and
Obstetricians (FIGO) Stage Grouping for Vaginal Carcinoma and
Five-Year Survival by Stage
Stage

Description

I
IIa
IIb
III
IVa
IVb

Carcinoma limited to vaginal mucosa
Invasion of subvaginal tissue only
Parametrial involvement (not pelvic side wall)
Carcinoma extends to pelvic side wall
Involvement of mucosa of bladder or rectum
Spread beyond the pelvis

Data from 6th Annual FIGO Report: Patients Treated 1999–2001.

5-year
survival (%)
78
52
42
20
13

Chapter 6:

brachytherapy alone. Stage I lesions in the upper vagina
that are less than 2 cm in diameter may be treated with
either surgery (radical hysterectomy, upper vaginectomy,
and bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy) or intracavitary
radiation therapy. Lesions in the mid-to-lower vagina are
typically treated with radiation therapy. Radiotherapyrelated complications include rectovaginal or vesicovaginal
fistulas, radiation cystitis or proctitis, rectal and vaginal
strictures, and, rarely, vaginal necrosis. Radiation therapy
alone is adequate treatment for Stage I and II disease. This
was illustrated by a series that looked at five-year pelvic
control, distant metastasis-free survival, and disease-specific
survival probabilities, respectively, according to stage following radiotherapy alone: Stage I, 83%, 100%, and 92%,
respectively; Stage II, 76%, 95%, and 68%, respectively;
Stage III, 62%, 65%, and 44%, respectively; and Stage IV,
30%, 18%, and 13%, respectively (69). Loco-regionally
advanced disease is likely to require a combined modality
approach. The evidence for the use of chemotherapy is limited in squamous lesions but cisplatin-based chemoradiation has been used, as in the treatment of cervical cancer.
Despite high rate of clinical response, long-term results
may be disappointing. There are no large studies of chemotherapy to confirm activity in recurrent or advanced
disease and so the role of chemotherapy remains unclear.

VULVAL CANCER
Epidemiology, Etiology, and Pathology
Vulval cancer accounts for 5% of all gynecological malignancies and usually occurs in postmenopausal women.
Over 1000 women are diagnosed with vulval cancer every
year and 380 women die from the disease annually. Vulval
cancer is very rare in young women aged under 25. Rates
are less than 1 per 100,000 among women aged 25–44, rising to 3 per 100,000 in those aged 45–64, and peak at 14
per 100,000 in women aged 65 and over.
Risk factors for vulval cancer include cigarette smoking, vulvlal dystrophy (e.g., lichen sclerosus), vulval (VIN)
or cervical (CIN) intraepithelial neoplasia, HPV infection,
immunodeficiency syndromes, and a prior history of cervical cancer. VIN and Paget’s disease are likely to be precursor lesions. Approximately 9% of untreated VIN may
progress to invasive disease with a latent period of progression of between one and eight years. Around 90% of
vulvar malignancies are squamous cell carcinomas. Less
than 5% are melanomas and the remainder are carcinomas
of Bartholin’s gland, other adenocarcinomas, basal cell carcinomas, verrucous carcinomas, rhabdomyosarcomas, and
leiomyosarcomas. Patients with Paget’s disease of the vulva
(intraepithelial adenocarcinoma) and basal cell carcinoma
are at increased risk of synchronous neoplasms.

and this is often confounded by delays in appropriate
referral. Some patients are asymptomatic at the time of
diagnosis and are most frequently found after previous
treatment of CIN or cancer or the cervix or anus.

Diagnosis and Staging
The diagnosis is usually confirmed by biopsy prior to definitive treatment. Examination under anesthesia and a full
thickness biopsy of the lesion and surrounding areas is
important for diagnosis and delineation of the extent of the
lesion. Colposcopy is sometimes indicated if preinvasive
disease is also suspected. Vulval malignancies can be multifocal and therefore assessment of the cervix and vagina
should also be performed. Imaging of the pelvis by CT or
MRI is performed to identify the full extent of disease.
The staging of vulval cancer uses the FIGO system
which is based upon pathological findings from biopsy
of the vulval lesion and surgical evaluation of the lymph
nodes in the groins (Table 6.6). Surgical staging is necessary because inguinofemoral lymph node status is the most
important predictor of overall prognosis and clinical assessment of groin node metastases is inaccurate (false positive
or false negative) in up to 30% cases. Sentinel node biopsy
is under investigation as a method to avoid complete groin
dissection in women with vulval malignancies, thereby
potentially reducing both acute and long-term complications of lymphadenectomy. At this time, the procedure is
experimental and trials are ongoing (GOG 173) to assess
its efficacy in early stage vulval cancer.

Treatment of Early-Stage Disease
The main approach for early-stage vulval squamous cell
carcinoma is surgery. Radical local excision without lymph
node dissection is the treatment of choice in patients with

Table 6.6 International Federation of Gynecologists and
Obstetricians (FIGO) Stage Grouping for Vulval Carcinoma and
Five-Year Survival by Stage
Stage

Description

I

Tumor confined to vulva or perineum with no
lymph node metastases
Lesion 2 cm or less on vulva/perineum with
stromal invasion up to 1 mm
As in Ia except stromal invasion is >1 mm
Tumor confined to vulva/perineum and more
than 2 cm in greatest dimension. No lymph
node metastases
Tumor of any size arising on vulva and/or
perineum with adjacent spread to lower
urethra or and and/or unilateral regional
(inguinal and/or femoral) lymph node
metastases
Tumor invading any of the following: upper
urethra, bladder mucosa, rectal mucosa,
pelvic bone, and/or bilateral regional lymph
node metastases
Any distant metastases including pelvic lymph
nodes

Ia
Ib
II

III

Clinical Features
The most common symptom is pruritus vulvae which occurs
in about two-thirds of patients. Up to half of patients also
present with a vulval mass or ulcer which may be associated with bleeding or discharge. Dysuria or an enlarged
lymph node in the groin are suggestive of advanced
disease. Unfortunately, there can be a delay of months
between the onset of symptoms and seeking medical advice

119

Gynecological Cancer

IVa

IVb

Data from 6th Annual FIGO Report: Patients Treated 1999–2001.

5-year
survival (%)
79

59

43

13

120

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Stage IA disease. In addition to radical local excision or
modified radical vulvectomy, patients with Stage IB and II
disease should also undergo inguinofemoral lymph node
dissection (superficial and deep) because the risk of lymph
node metastases is at least 10%. Clear surgical margins
should extend at least 1 cm beyond the lesion (ideally 2 cm)
to minimize the risk of a local recurrence. Retrospective
series of women with resected vulval cancer have shown
that adjuvant radiation therapy appears to benefit patients
with two or more positive inguinal lymph nodes or positive surgical margins (70). Results are awaited of a prospective trial (GOG 145) which evaluated the role of adjuvant
radiotherapy in patients with high-risk primary tumors
with negative groin nodes.

7.

8.

9.

10.

Treatment of Advanced Disease
Stage III and IVa vulval squamous cell carcinoma can be
resected using radical vulvectomy combined with pelvic
exenteration. However, the use of stomas and reconstructive surgery is required and in view of the high morbidity of these procedures, approaches such as preoperative
radiotherapy and chemoradiotherapy are often considered.
Radiation-sensitizing agents such as cisplatin and 5-FU
have been used in Phase II studies of chemoradiation. The
role of surgery in women who achieve a complete clinical
response to chemoradiotherapy is unclear. Combining
chemoradiation with surgery enables more conservative
surgery with a higher chance of no residual disease. However, the risk of cumulative toxicity from each procedure
performed needs to be considered. Chemotherapy alone
has shown limited efficacy in vulval cancer but may be
considered for patients with distant metastases. The most
active agents are those with substantial activity against
squamous cell tumors at other sites, and include cisplatin,
methotrexate, cyclophosphamide, mitomycin C, and methotrexate. EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors have shown
promising results in small series and are likely to be investigated in future clinical trials (71).

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

REFERENCES
1.

Hess V, A’Hern R, Nasiri N et al. Mucinous epithelial ovarian cancer: a separate entity requiring specific treatment.
J Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 1040–4.
2. Young RC, Walton LA, Ellenberg SS et al. Adjuvant therapy
in stage I and stage II epithelial ovarian cancer. Results of
two prospective randomized trials. N Engl J Med 1990; 322:
1021–7.
3. Trimbos JB, Parmar M, Vergote I et al. International
Collaborative Ovarian Neoplasm trial 1 and Adjuvant ChemoTherapy In Ovarian Neoplasm trial: two parallel randomized
phase III trials of adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with
early-stage ovarian carcinoma. J Natl Cancer Inst 2003; 95:
105–12.
4. Swart AC. Long-term follow-up of women enrolled in a
randomized trial of adjuvant chemotherapy for early stage
ovarian cancer (ICON1). J Clin Oncol (2007 ASCO Annual
Meeting Proceedings Part I) 2007; 25: 5509.
5. Bell J, Brady MF, Young RC et al. Randomized phase III trial
of three versus six cycles of adjuvant carboplatin and paclitaxel
in early stage epithelial ovarian carcinoma: a Gynecologic
Oncology Group study. Gynecol Oncol 2006; 102: 432–9.
6. Aabo K, Adams M, Adnitt P et al. Chemotherapy in advanced
ovarian cancer: four systematic meta-analyses of individual

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

patient data from 37 randomized trials. Advanced Ovarian
Cancer Trialists’ Group. Br J Cancer 1998; 78: 1479–87.
du Bois A, Luck HJ, Meier W et al. A randomized clinical
trial of cisplatin/paclitaxel versus carboplatin/paclitaxel as
first-line treatment of ovarian cancer. J Natl Cancer Inst 2003;
95: 1320–9.
Ozols RF, Bundy BN, Greer BE et al. Phase III trial of carboplatin and paclitaxel compared with cisplatin and paclitaxel
in patients with optimally resected stage III ovarian cancer:
a Gynecologic Oncology Group study. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21:
3194–200.
McGuire WP, Hoskins WJ, Brady MF et al. Cyclophosphamide and cisplatin compared with paclitaxel and cisplatin
in patients with stage III and stage IV ovarian cancer. N Engl
J Med 1996; 334: 1–6.
Piccart MJ, Bertelsen K, James K et al. Randomized intergroup
trial of cisplatin-paclitaxel versus cisplatin-cyclophosphamide
in women with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer: three-year
results. J Natl Cancer Inst 2000; 92: 699–708.
Neijt JP, Engelholm SA, Tuxen MK et al. Exploratory phase
III study of paclitaxel and cisplatin versus paclitaxel and
carboplatin in advanced ovarian cancer. J Clin Oncol 2000;
18: 3084–92.
Gadducci A, Sartori E, Landoni F et al. Relationship between
time interval from primary surgery to the start of taxaneplus platinum-based chemotherapy and clinical outcome of
patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer: results of a
multicenter retrospective Italian study. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23:
751–8.
Isonishi S, Yasuda M, Takahashi F et al. Randomized phase
III trial of conventional paclitaxel and carboplatin (c-TC) versus dose dense weekly paclitaxel and carboplatin (dd-TC) in
women with advanced epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or
primary peritoneal cancer: Japanese Gynecologic Oncology.
J Clin Oncol (2008 ASCO Annual Meeting Proceedings) 2008;
26: 5506.
Muggia FM, Braly PS, Brady MF et al. Phase III randomized
study of cisplatin versus paclitaxel versus cisplatin and paclitaxel in patients with suboptimal stage III or IV ovarian
cancer: a gynecologic oncology group study. J Clin Oncol
2000; 18: 106–15.
International Collaborative Ovarian Neoplasm Group. Paclitaxel plus carboplatin versus standard chemotherapy with
either single agent carboplatin or cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and cisplatin in women with ovarian cancer: the
ICON3 randomised trial. Lancet 2002; 360: 505–15.
Lambert HE, Rustin GJ, Gregory WM et al. A randomized
trial of five versus eight courses of cisplatin or carboplatin in
advanced epithelial ovarian carcinoma. A North Thames
Ovary Group Study. Ann Oncol 1997; 8: 327–33.
Markman M, Liu PY, Wilczynski S et al. Phase III randomized trial of 12 versus 3 months of maintenance paclitaxel in
patients with advanced ovarian cancer after complete response
to platinum and paclitaxel-based chemotherapy: a Southwest
Oncology Group and Gynecologic Oncology Group trial.
J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 2460–5.
Conte PF, Favalli G, Gaducci A et al. Final results of After-6
protocol 1: a phase III trial of observation versus 6 courses
of paclitaxel (Pac) in advanced ovarian cancer patients in
complete response (CR) after platinum-paclitaxel chemotherapy (CT). J Clin Oncol (2007 ASCO Annual Meeting Proceedings Part I) 2007; 25: 5505.
De Placido S, Scambia G, Di Vagno G et al. Topotecan compared with no therapy after response to surgery and carboplatin/paclitaxel in patients with ovarian cancer: Multicenter
Italian Trials in Ovarian Cancer (MITO-1) randomized study.
J Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 2635–42.
Pfisterer J, Weber B, Reuss A et al. Randomized phase III
trial of topotecan following carboplatin and paclitaxel in first-

Chapter 6:

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

line treatment of advanced ovarian cancer: a gynecologic
cancer intergroup trial of the AGO-OVAR and GINECO.
J Natl Cancer Inst 2006; 98: 1036–45.
Mobus V, Wandt H, Frickhofen N et al. Phase III trial of highdose sequential chemotherapy with peripheral blood stem
cell support compared with standard dose chemotherapy for
first-line treatment of advanced ovarian cancer: intergroup
trial of the AGO-Ovar/AIO and EBMT. J Clin Oncol 2007;
25: 4187–93.
Cure H, Battista C, Guastalla JP et al. Phase III randomized
trial of high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) and peripheral blood
stem cell (PBSC) support as consolidation in patients (pts)
with advanced ovarian cancer (AOC): 5-year follow-up of a
GINECO/FNCLCC/SFGM-TC study. J Clin Oncol [2004
ASCO Annual Meeting Proceedings (Post-Meeting Edition)]
2004; 22: 5006.
Verschraegen CF, Sittisomwong T, Kudelka AP et al. Docetaxel for patients with paclitaxel-resistant Mullerian carcinoma. J Clin Oncol 2000; 18: 2733–9.
Vasey PA, Jayson GC, Gordon A et al. Phase III randomized
trial of docetaxel-carboplatin versus paclitaxel-carboplatin as
first-line chemotherapy for ovarian carcinoma. J Natl Cancer
Inst 2004; 96: 1682–91.
Bookman MA. GOG0182-ICON5: 5-arm phase III randomized
trial of paclitaxel (P) and carboplatin (C) vs combinations
with gemcitabine (G), PEG-lipososomal doxorubicin (D), or
topotecan (T) in patients (pts) with advanced-stage epithelial
ovarian (EOC) or primary peritoneal (PPC) carcinoma. J Clin
Oncol (2006 ASCO Annual Meeting Proceedings Part I) 2006;
24: 5002.
Scarfone G, Scambia G, Raspagliesi F et al. A multicenter,
randomized, phase III study comparing paclitaxel/carboplatin (PC) versus topotecan/paclitaxel/carboplatin (TPC) in
patients with stage III (residual tumor >1 cm after primary
surgery) and IV ovarian cancer (OC). J Clin Oncol (2006
ASCO Annual Meeting Proceedings Part I) 2006; 24: 5003.
Hou JY, Kelly MG, Yu H et al. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy
lessens surgical morbidity in advanced ovarian cancer and
leads to improved survival in stage IV disease. Gynecol
Oncol 2007; 105: 211–17.
Bristow RE, Chi DS. Platinum-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy and interval surgical cytoreduction for advanced ovarian
cancer: a meta-analysis. Gynecol Oncol 2006; 103: 1070–6.
Kumar L, Hariprasad R, Kumar S et al. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) followed by interval debulking surgery
versus upfront surgery followed by chemotherapy (CT) in
advanced epithelial ovarian carcinoma (EOC): a prospective
randomized study—Interim results. J Cli Oncol (2007 ASCO
Annual Meeting Proceedings Part I) 2007; 25: 5531.
van der Burg ME, van Lent M, Buyse M et al. The effect of
debulking surgery after induction chemotherapy on the prognosis in advanced epithelial ovarian cancer. Gynecological
Cancer Cooperative Group of the European Organization for
Research and Treatment of Cancer. N Engl J Med 1995; 332:
629–34.
Rose PG, Nerenstone S, Brady MF et al. Secondary surgical
cytoreduction for advanced ovarian carcinoma. N Engl J Med
2004; 351: 2489–97.
Armstrong DK, Bundy B, Wenzel L et al. Intraperitoneal
cisplatin and paclitaxel in ovarian cancer. N Engl J Med 2006;
354: 34–43.
Markman M, Markman J, Webster K et al. Duration of
response to second-line, platinum-based chemotherapy for
ovarian cancer: implications for patient management and
clinical trial design. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 3120–5.
Parmar MK, Ledermann JA, Colombo N et al. Paclitaxel plus
platinum-based chemotherapy versus conventional platinumbased chemotherapy in women with relapsed ovarian cancer:
the ICON4/AGO-OVAR-2.2 trial. Lancet 2003; 361: 2099–106.

35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.
41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

47.
48.
49.

50.

51.

Gynecological Cancer

121

Alberts DS, Liu PY, Wilczynski SP et al. Randomized trial of
pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) plus carboplatin versus carboplatin in platinum-sensitive (PS) patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian or peritoneal carcinoma after failure
of initial platinum-based chemotherapy (Southwest Oncology
Group Protocol S0200). Gynecol Oncol 2008; 108: 90–4.
Pfisterer J, Plante M, Vergote I et al. Gemcitabine plus carboplatin compared with carboplatin in patients with platinum-sensitive recurrent ovarian cancer: an intergroup trial of
the AGO-OVAR, the NCIC CTG, and the EORTC GCG. J Clin
Oncol 2006; 24: 4699–707.
Gore M, ten Bokkel Huinink W, Carmichael J et al. Clinical
evidence for topotecan-paclitaxel noncross-resistance in ovarian cancer. J Clin Oncol 2001; 19: 1893–900.
Rose PG, Blessing JA, Mayer AR et al. Prolonged oral etoposide as second-line therapy for platinum-resistant and platinum-sensitive ovarian carcinoma: a Gynecologic Oncology
Group study. J Clin Oncol 1998; 16: 405–10.
Markman M, Blessing J, Rubin SC et al. Phase II trial
of weekly paclitaxel (80 mg/m2) in platinum and paclitaxelresistant ovarian and primary peritoneal cancers: a Gynecologic Oncology Group study. Gynecol Oncol 2006; 101:
436–40.
Williams C. Tamoxifen for relapse of ovarian cancer. Cochrane
Database Syst Rev 2001; 1: CD001034.
Smyth JF, Gourley C, Walker G et al. Antiestrogen therapy
is active in selected ovarian cancer cases: the use of letrozole
in estrogen receptor-positive patients. Clin Cancer Res 2007;
13: 3617–22.
Harter P, Bois A, Hahmann M et al. Surgery in recurrent
ovarian cancer: the Arbeitsgemeinschaft Gynaekologische
Onkologie (AGO) DESKTOP OVAR trial. Ann Surg Oncol
2006; 13: 1702–10.
Burger RA, Sill MW, Monk BJ et al. Phase II trial of bevacizumab in persistent or recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer or
primary peritoneal cancer: a Gynecologic Oncology Group
Study. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 5165–71.
Cannistra SA, Matulonis UA, Penson RT et al. Phase II study
of bevacizumab in patients with platinum-resistant ovarian
cancer or peritoneal serous cancer. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25:
5180–6.
Yap T, Boss D, Fong PC et al. First in human phase I pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) study of
KU-0059436 (Ku), a small molecule inhibitor of poly ADPribose polymerase (PARP) in cancer patients (p), including
BRCA1/2 mutation carriers. J Clin Oncol (2007 ASCO Annual
Meeting Proceedings Part I) 2007; 25: 3529.
Berek JS, Taylor PT, Gordon A et al. Randomized, placebocontrolled study of oregovomab for consolidation of clinical
remission in patients with advanced ovarian cancer. J Clin
Oncol 2004; 22: 3507–16.
Bower M, Fife K, Holden L et al. Chemotherapy for ovarian
germ cell tumours. Eur J Cancer 1996; 32A: 593–7.
Hecht JL, Mutter GL. Molecular and pathologic aspects of
endometrial carcinogenesis. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 4783–91.
Kitchener H. ASTEC—A Study in the Treatment of Endometrial Cancer: a randomised trial of lymphadenectomy in the
treatment of endometrial cancer. 37th Annual Meeting of the
Society of Gynecologic Oncologists (SGO). Gynecol Oncol
2006; 101: S21–2.
Creutzberg CL, van Putten WL, Koper PC et al. Surgery
and postoperative radiotherapy versus surgery alone for
patients with stage-1 endometrial carcinoma: multicentre
randomised trial. PORTEC Study Group. Post Operative
Radiation Therapy in Endometrial Carcinoma. Lancet 2000;
355: 1404–11.
Randall ME, Filiaci VL, Muss H et al. Randomized phase III
trial of whole-abdominal irradiation versus doxorubicin and
cisplatin chemotherapy in advanced endometrial carcinoma:

122

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

59.

60.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
a Gynecologic Oncology Group Study. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24:
36–44.
Thigpen JT, Brady MF, Alvarez RD et al. Oral medroxyprogesterone acetate in the treatment of advanced or recurrent
endometrial carcinoma: a dose-response study by the Gynecologic Oncology Group. J Clin Oncol 1999; 17: 1736–44.
Whitney CW, Brunetto VL, Zaino RJ et al. Phase II study of
medroxyprogesterone acetate plus tamoxifen in advanced
endometrial carcinoma: a Gynecologic Oncology Group study.
Gynecol Oncol 2004; 92: 4–9.
Fleming GF, Brunetto VL, Cella D et al. Phase III trial of
doxorubicin plus cisplatin with or without paclitaxel plus
filgrastim in advanced endometrial carcinoma: a Gynecologic
Oncology Group Study. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 2159–66.
Lissoni A, Zanetta G, Losa G et al. Phase II study of paclitaxel
as salvage treatment in advanced endometrial cancer. Ann
Oncol 1996; 7: 861–3.
Mayrand MH, Duarte-Franco E, Rodrigues I et al. Human
papillomavirus DNA versus Papanicolaou screening tests for
cervical cancer. N Engl J Med 2007; 357: 1579–88.
Bulkmans NW, Berkhof J, Rozendaal L et al. Human papillomavirus DNA testing for the detection of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 and cancer: 5-year follow-up of a
randomised controlled implementation trial. Lancet 2007; 370:
1764–72.
Villa LL, Costa RL, Petta CA et al. Prophylactic quadrivalent
human papillomavirus (types 6, 11, 16, and 18) L1 virus-like
particle vaccine in young women: a randomised double-blind
placebo-controlled multicentre phase II efficacy trial. Lancet
Oncol 2005; 6: 271–8.
Harper DM, Franco EL, Wheeler CM et al. Sustained efficacy
up to 4.5 years of a bivalent L1 virus-like particle vaccine
against human papillomavirus types 16 and 18: follow-up
from a randomised control trial. Lancet 2006; 367: 1247–55.
Ault KA. Effect of prophylactic human papillomavirus L1
virus-like-particle vaccine on risk of cervical intraepithelial
neoplasia grade 2, grade 3, and adenocarcinoma in situ: a
combined analysis of four randomised clinical trials. Lancet
2007; 369: 1861–8.

61. Garland SM, Hernandez-Avila M, Wheeler CM et al. Quadrivalent vaccine against human papillomavirus to prevent anogenital diseases. N Engl J Med 2007; 356: 1928–43.
62. Peters WA 3rd, Liu PY, Barrett RJ 2nd et al. Concurrent
chemotherapy and pelvic radiation therapy compared with
pelvic radiation therapy alone as adjuvant therapy after radical surgery in high-risk early-stage cancer of the cervix.
J Clin Oncol 2000; 18: 1606–13.
63. Landoni F, Maneo A, Colombo A et al. Randomised study
of radical surgery versus radiotherapy for stage Ib-IIa cervical cancer. Lancet 1997; 350: 535–40.
64. Green J, Kirwan J, Tierney J et al. Concomitant chemotherapy
and radiation therapy for cancer of the uterine cervix.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2005; CD002225.
65. Kim YS, Shin SS, Nam JH et al. Prospective randomized
comparison of monthly fluorouracil and cisplatin versus
weekly cisplatin concurrent with pelvic radiotherapy and
high-dose rate brachytherapy for locally advanced cervical
cancer. Gynecol Oncol 2008; 108: 195–200.
66. Monk BJ, Huang HQ, Cella D et al. Quality of life outcomes
from a randomized phase III trial of cisplatin with or without
topotecan in advanced carcinoma of the cervix: a Gynecologic
Oncology Group Study. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 4617–25.
67. Rose PG, Bundy BN, Watkins EB et al. Concurrent cisplatinbased radiotherapy and chemotherapy for locally advanced
cervical cancer. N Engl J Med 1999; 340: 1144–53.
68. Wright JD, Viviano D, Powell MA et al. Bevacizumab
combination therapy in heavily pretreated, recurrent cervical
cancer. Gynecol Oncol 2006; 103: 489–93.
69. Tran PT, Su Z, Lee P et al. Prognostic factors for outcomes
and complications for primary squamous cell carcinoma of
the vagina treated with radiation. Gynecol Oncol 2007; 105:
641–9.
70. Parthasarathy A, Cheung MK, Osann K et al. The benefit of
adjuvant radiation therapy in single-node-positive squamous
cell vulvar carcinoma. Gynecol Oncol 2006; 103: 1095–9.
71. Olawaiye A, Lee LM, Krasner C et al. Treatment of squamous
cell vulvar cancer with the anti-EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor Tarceva. Gynecol Oncol 2007; 106: 628–30.

7
1
Head and Neck Cancer
Dirk Schrijvers and Lisa Licitra

One-third of patients with squamous cell carcinoma
of the head and neck (SCCHN) present with early stage
disease and two-third have locoregional advanced disease. In less than 20%, distant metastases are found at
diagnosis (1).
The most important risk factors for SCCHN are cigarette and alcohol abuse, particularly when their use is
combined (4,5). These abuses may also lead to important
comorbidity, including cardiovascular, pulmonary, and
hepatic disease, as well as malnutrition.
Epidemiological studies show that the risk of oral
cancer is five to nine times higher for smokers than for
nonsmokers and this risk may increase to as much as
17 times higher for heavy smokers (80 or more cigarettes
per day). In addition, if patients continue to smoke after
treatment, the risk of developing a second cancer in the
upper aerodigestive tract is two to six times higher than
in those who stopped smoking (5). Stopping tobacco use
leads to a decreasing risk over time.
Other risk factors for oral cancer are snuff or chewing
tobacco and chronic use of betel nut (paan) (5). Marijuana
use is also considered to be a potential risk factor (5).
Alcohol use is a major risk factor for cancers of the
upper aerodigestive tract. In studies controlled for smoking, moderate-to-heavy drinkers have been shown to have
a three to nine time higher risk of developing head and
neck cancer (4,5).
Of even greater significance is the synergistic effect
of alcohol and smoking. Patients who are both heavy
smokers and drinkers have a risk of more than 100 times
of normal of developing a malignancy in the head and
neck region (4,5).
Infections with human papillomavirus (HPV) types
16 and 18 have been implicated in the development of
cancer of the oral cavity, pharynx, and larynx (6). A metaanalysis showed that the probability of HPV detection in
the oral mucosa increased with the degree of dysplasia: it
was 10% (95% confidence interval, CI, 6.1–14.6) in patients
with normal mucosa; 22% (95% CI 15.7–29.9) in patients with
benign leukoplakia; 26.2% (95% CI 19.6–33.6) in intraepithelial neoplasia; 29.5% (95% CI 23.0–36.8) in verrucous
carcinoma; and 46.5% (95% CI 37.6–55.5) in oral squamous
cell carcinoma.
The probability of detection of any high-risk HPV
was 2.8 times more likely than for a low-risk subtype (hazard ratio, HR, 0.24, 95% CI 0.16–0.33 and 0.09, 95% CI
0.06–0.13, respectively). Furthermore, HPV16 and HPV18
are detected in 30% of oral squamous cell carcinomas, while
other high-risk types are detected in less than 1% (7).

INTRODUCTION
Head and neck cancers are malignancies arising from the
structures of the upper aerodigestive tract. They include
cancers of the epithelium of the oral cavity, the pharynx
(naso-, oro-, and hypopharynx), the larynx, nasal cavity
and the paranasal sinuses (Fig. 7.1). Other types of cancers
in the head and neck region are tumors of the salivary
glands, thyroid, and those originating in other tissues (1).
Head and neck cancers are grouped according to the
location and the histological type of the primary tumor and
the extent of the disease.
The clinical manifestations of head and neck cancer
affect critical parts of the human anatomy, with important
repercussions on nutrition, respiration, and speech. Therefore, these tumors have an important functional and
psychosocial impact on patients.
The treatment and treatment outcome of these tumors
depend on the location and histology of the primary tumor,
the stage of the disease, and patient-related factors.
Head and neck cancer represents about 5% of the
total cancer cases. Worldwide more than 500,000 patients
are diagnosed each year with head and neck cancer (1)
with 100,800 people living in Europe, and almost 40,000 of
European patients die from the disease (2). More men then
women develop head and neck cancer; the incidence is
rising (2,3) but varies greatly across Europe, especially for
sites such as tongue, oral cavity, oropharynx, hypopharynx, and larynx. For these sites, cancer incidence in men
is much higher in Southern Europe (France, Italy, Spain,
and Switzerland) than in Central and Northern Europe.
Head and neck cancers include sites with excellent
prognosis (lip, 94% five-year survival), good prognosis
(larynx, 62%; salivary glands, 61%), fair prognosis (tongue,
39%; oral cavity, 45%; oropharynx, 32%; nasopharynx,
43%), and poor prognosis (hypopharynx, 25%).
The overall age-adjusted mortality rates from head
and neck cancer in the European Union decreased in the
period between 1992 and 2002: oral cavity and pharynx
(–8%), larynx (–27%), thyroid (–23%) in men and thyroid
(–28%) in women (3).

SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA
OF THE HEAD AND NECK
Epidemiology
In Western societies, most of the head and neck tumors
are of squamous cell histology.
123

124

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Paranasal sinuses

Nasal cavity

Nasopharynx

Oral cavity
Oropharynx

Salivary glands
Trachea

Hypopharynx

Larynx
Esophagus

Occupational exposure to nickel, wood, or textile
fibers are risk factors for the development of sinus cancer.
Iron deficiency anemia in combination with dysphagia and esophageal webs (known as Plummer–Vinson
or Paterson–Kelly syndrome) is associated with an elevated
risk of carcinoma of the oral cavity and oropharynx (5).
Immunosuppression predisposes some individuals to
an increased risk for oral cancer. Carcinomas of the lip have
been reported in a number of kidney transplant patients
receiving immunosuppressive medications, and oral carcinomas have been documented in patients with acquired
immune deficiency syndrome (5).
Protective factors appear to include the consumption
of fruit and vegetables.

Carcinogenesis
Carcinogenesis in patients with SCCHN is multifactorial
and is a cascade of genetic events (6). There seem to be
two types of important genetic events, one related to
HPV and one related to the tobacco and alcohol use. However, the definite carcinogenic pathways have not yet been
established.

HPV-Related Carcinogenesis
• The HPV genome encodes several early and late genes
important for viral replication, transcription, and carcinogenesis (8). The early (E) open reading frames
encode the E1, E2, E5, E6, and E7 proteins. Proteins E5,
E6, and E7 are considered oncogenic because of their
transforming and growth stimulating properties. These
proteins have the ability to deregulate tumor suppressor function by binding to and abrogating the functions
of the p21, p53, and pRb proteins, resulting in defects
in apoptosis, DNA repair, cell cycle control, and eventually leading to cellular immortalization (Fig. 7.2).
The noncoding long control region (LCR) contains
binding sites for the E2 and E1 gene products, located
just upstream of the P97 promoter sequence, which

Figure 7.1
region.

Anatomy of the head and neck

controls the transcription of the E6 and E7 oncogenes.
There is a dose-dependent regulation of E6 and E7
expression by E2. High levels of E2 protein result in
the repression of E6 and E7 expression (9). Persistent
infection with high-risk HPVs is required for cancer
development (10).
• Linearization and integration of the circular HPV
genome into the host chromosome is a late event (i.e.,
in advanced precancers and the majority of invasive
carcinomas). HPV integration is thought to be random
throughout the host genome, with a predilection for
chromosomal fragile sites; however, with respect to
the viral genome, integration occurs with a break in
the E1/E2 gene sequence. The disruption of the viral
E2 sequence releases the HPV oncogenes from repression, resulting in overexpression of E6 and E7 and
leading to the alteration of key tumor suppressor
pathways (10).
• The E5 protein exerts its carcinogenic effects during the
early stages of the viral infection, and this viral oncoprotein may not be required for the maintenance of the
malignant phenotype. Nonetheless, the E5 protein has
been shown to stimulate cell growth through the activation and upregulation of the epidermal growth factor
receptor (EGFR), initiating signaling cascades leading
to the overexpression of proto-oncogenes, as well as the
repression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1A
(CDKN1A/p21) expression (10).
• HPV E6 protein has demonstrated growth-stimulatory
abilities in conjunction with another cellular protein,
E6-associated protein (E6-AP). The E6/E6-AP complex
binds p53 and targets the molecule for proteosome degradation. This leads to p53 loss with inhibition of p53mediated apoptosis and an inefficient G1/S checkpoint
in cells with DNA damage, all of which contribute to
defects in cell cycle regulation and, eventually, to chromosomal instability in the infected cells. The E6/E6-AP
complex also prevents ubiquitination and degradation
of src family tyrosine kinase, BLK, which results in

Chapter 7:

Head and Neck Cancer

125

Ligand
EGFR

ACh Nic

DR

Cell membrane
P P
SOS GRB2

Disc
TRADD,FADD
Casp 8

H-RAS

RAS

K-RAS

JAK-2

tBid
PDK1

Bax/Bak

Raf

PI3K
Bad

Akt

ERK

NF-κB

Casp 7
Casp 3

Casp 9
Apoptosome
Apaf-1
Cytochromec

Bcl

PTEN

MEK

P53

mdm2

mTor
ELK-1

STAT-3

Fos

M

P21

Bcl-2
G1
HIF-1α

Mitochondrion

c-jun

G0

VEGF

E2F

cdk2

pRb
S

Cyclin B
Apoptosis

Angiogenesis

G2
cdk4/6
cdk2

Cyclin D

Cyclin A
P16

Cell cycle progression

Figure 7.2 Selected pathways in head and neck cancer pathogenesis. Abbreviations: Ach, acetylcholine; Apaf-1, apoptotic protease activating factor;
BAD, BCL2-associated agonist of cell death; BAX, BCL2-associated X protein; BCL, B-cell CLL/lymphoma; Bid, BH3 interacting domain death agonist;
casp, caspase; cdk, cyclin-dependent kinase; Disc, death-inducing signaling complex; DR, death receptor; EGFR, epidermal growth factor receptor; ERK,
extracellular signal-regulated kinase; FADD, Fas-associated domain; G, gap; GRB2, growth factor receptor bound protein 2; HIF, hypoxia inducible factor;
JAK, Janus kinase; H-RAS, Harvey rat sarcoma; K-RAS, Kirsten rat sarcoma; M, mitosis; MEK, mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated
kinase kinase; inhibitors Nic, nicotine; mTOR, mammalian target of rapamycin; NF-κB nuclear factor of kappa B; P, phosphate; PDK1, 3-phosphoinositidedependent protein kinase-1; pRb, retinoblastoma protein; PI3K, phosphotidylinositol 3 kinase; PTEN, phosphatase and tensin homology deleted on
chromosome ten; RAF, root abundant factor; S, synthesis; STAT, signal transducer and activator of transcription; SOS, son of sevenless; TRADD, tumor
necrosis factor receptor-associated death domain; VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor; ………, inhibition; ——, activation.

stabilization of the activated form of this kinase, thereby
stimulating mitosis.
• The HPV E7 protein binds and degrades the tumor suppressor protein, pRB, by ubiquitin-mediated degradation.
Destabilization of pRB causes release of E2F from pRb/
E2F complexes. This permits E2F, a transcriptional regulator of cell proliferation genes, to transactivate S-phaserelated genes. The functional inactivation of pRB by E7
leads to overexpression of the cyclin-dependent kinase
inhibitor p16INK4a. E7 also exhibits kinase activity by
forming indirect complexes with cyclins A and E, which
are thought to play a role in driving cellular hyperproliferation. There are several additional cellular targets of E7,
such as the transcription factor JUN, TATA box-binding
proteins, and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors
p21 and p27, which induce cell proliferation (10).

Tobacco-Related Carcinogenesis
Several mechanisms have been described in tobacco-related
carcinogenesis:
• DNA adducts formation is associated with tobacco
smoking (11). Molecular studies of human tumors suggest associations of p53 mutation with DNA adducts and
have revealed correlations of DNA adduct levels with
somatic alterations (e.g., 3p21 LOH) that are thought to
occur at the very earliest stages of tobacco carcinogenesis. Changes in the tumor suppressor gene p53, located
at the 17p13 chromosome have been observed in 33–76%
of patients with head and neck cancer and mutations in
other tumor suppressor genes (p16, p21, p27) involved
in cell cycle proliferation have all been seen in patients
with head and neck cancer (6).

126

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

• Nicotine and tobacco-derived nitrosamines have been
shown to exhibit their pathobiologic effects also in part
by activation of the nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors (nAChRs), expressed by oral keratinocytes. Activation of α7 nAChR leads to an increase of STAT-3 due to
signaling through the Ras/Raf-1/MEK1/ERK or janusactivated kinase. The Ras/Raf-1/MEK1/ERK cascade
culminates in upregulated expression of the gene encoding STAT-3, whereas recruitment and activation of
tyrosine kinase JAK-2 phosphorylates it (Fig. 7.2) (12).
• Mutations in the retinoblastoma gene (Rb), located at
13q14 and involved in cell cycle regulation have been
described in 6–74% of patients with head and neck
cancer (6).
• Cyclin D, a cyclin that phophorylates Rb, leading to cell
cycle progression is amplified in 12–68% of patients
with head and neck cancer.
• Another important factor is the EGFR that regulates cell
growth by binding to epidermal growth factor and transforming growth factor-α. This receptor is overexpressed
in 43–62% of head and neck cancer patients (6).

Pathology
Several premalignant lesions have been described in patients
with head and neck cancer.
Leukoplakia is a white patch or plaque that cannot
be characterized clinically or pathologically as any other
disease. It should be used only as a clinical term as it has
no specific pathological substrate (5).
The same applies for the term erythroplakia that
refers to a red patch that cannot be defined clinically or
pathologically as any other condition (5).
SCCHN is subclassified according to the differentiation grade (well, moderately, and poorly differentiated)
although this does not seem to be an independent prognostic factor (13,14).

Screening
Screening may lead to the detection of earlier stage cancer
in asymptomatic patients and should improve treatment
outcome in terms of survival.
In head and neck cancer, only the mouth is easily
accessible by physical examination. The feasibility and the
value of population screening by physical examination for
oral cancer were tested in Sri Lanka and India. Although
this screening method was feasible, the participation rate
was poor (15). One important randomized controlled trial
has been performed (n = 13 clusters: 191,873 participants)
but there was no difference in the age-standardized oral
cancer mortality rates for the screened group (16.4/100,000
person-years) and the control group (20.7/100,000 personyears). A significant 34% reduction in mortality was
recorded in high-risk subjects between the intervention
cohort (29.9/100,000 person-years) and the control arm
(45.4/100,000) (16).
Oral exfoliative cytology is the most extensively
studied screening procedure of American oral screening
programs (17). Problems encountered with this screening
method include a high proportion of false-negative examinations and poor voluntary participation by the highest
risk individuals (heavy tobacco and alcohol users).

At the moment, there is no definitive evidence that
population-based screening for head and neck cancer can
reduce mortality.
However, each health professional should be aware
of the problem and should try to detect head and neck
cancer in an early stage. It has been shown that there may
be a delay of up to 200 days between development of
symptoms and diagnosis (18).
The following guidelines for oral cancer screening
and mucosal lesion assessment might apply (19):
• Patient history
° General health history and medication use
° Oral habits and lifestyle with emphasis on tobacco
use, alcohol consumption, and sexual practices
° Symptoms of oral pain and discomfort
• Visual screening examination
° Extra-oral examination
Inspection of head and neck region for tenderness
or swelling
Palpation of the submandibular, neck, and supraclavicular regions for lymph nodes
Inspection and palpation of the lips and perioral
tissues
° Intraoral examination
Systematically inspection of all oral soft tissues with
special attention to lateral and ventral aspects of
the tongue, floor of the mouth, and soft palate
° Lesion inspection
Specific characteristics of each lesion with particular
attention to size, color, texture, and outline
° Documentation
At each evaluation, an image of any clinically visible lesion should be obtained and kept in the
patient file
• Additional visualization tools can enhance the distinction between normal tissue and the lesion and to identify satellite lesions. They are complementary to clinical
examination and judgment.
Different methods can be used:
° Toluidine blue is a vital stain used to identify highrisk oral lesions and stained lesions have a six times
higher chance of becoming cancer (20)
° Direct fluorescence visualization which uses a cone
of blue light that causes the mucosal cells to absorb
light energy and emit it as visible fluorescence.
Healthy oral tissue emits a pale green light, while
altered tissues attenuate the passage of light and
appear dark brown to black (19)
• Tissue biopsy
° A brush biopsy may be used to perform cytology (19)
° If a suspicious mucosal lesion persists for more than
three weeks without or after an identified local irritant such as trauma, infection, or inflammation, a
diagnostic biopsy is required (19).

Clinical Manifestations
The clinical presentation of head and neck cancer depends
on the location of the primary tumor and the extent of the
disease.
In early stage disease, the symptoms may be vague
and every complaint in the head and neck region by

Chapter 7:

patients with tobacco and alcohol use should be evaluated
carefully.
Early symptoms of cancer of the oral cavity or pharynx include pain, ulcers that do not heal, and poorly fitting
dentures.
Nasopharyngeal cancer may cause nasal obstruction,
otitis media due to obstruction of the Eustachian tube, and
epistaxis.
Sinusitis and nasal obstructions may be seen in
cancer of the nasal cavity or paranasal sinuses.
The classical symptom of laryngeal cancer is
hoarseness.
At later stage, all head and neck cancers give easily
detectable signs and symptoms. They include painless
swelling of lymph nodes in the neck region, pain, disfigurement, cranial neuropathies, trismus, dysphagia, bleeding, and fistulas.

Head and Neck Cancer

127

I
II

III
VI
V
IV
VII

Diagnosis
In patients with complaints in the head and neck region
that persist for more than three weeks, a referral to a head
and neck specialist is advocated (19). The definite diagnosis of head and neck cancer is made by a tissue biopsy.

Figure 7.3 Lymph node regions in the head and neck. See Color
Plate on Page xi.

Staging and Prognosis
The staging of head and neck cancers is based on the
TNM (tumor, node, metastasis) classification of the International Union against Cancer (13) and the American Joint
Committee on Cancer (14). It is a clinical classification.
The pathological classification is similar to the clinical
classification.
The T classification indicates the extent of the primary
tumor. It is generally similar for the oral cavity, oropharynx, salivary gland, and thyroid cancer. T1, T2, or T3 are
defined by the size of the tumor, T4a indicates that the
tumor invades into the surrounding structures and is
resectable, whereas T4b tumors are unresectable (13,14).
The T classification of other sites may differ in specific details because of anatomical considerations.
The N classification for cervical lymph node metastasis is uniform for all mucosal sites except for the nasopharynx. The N classification depends on the size of the lymph
nodes, the number of lymph nodes involved, and the localization in the neck (unilateral/bilateral).
Regional lymph nodes are subdivided into specific anatomic subsites and grouped into seven levels
(Fig. 7.3) (14):
Level I: submental, submandibular
Level II: upper jugular
Level III: midjugular
Level IV: lower jugular
Level V: posterior triangle (spinal accessory and transverse
cervical) (upper, middle, and lower corresponding to
the levels that define upper, middle, and lower jugular
nodes)
Level VI: prelarygneal, pretracheal
Level VII: upper mediastinal
Other groups: suboccipital, retropharyngeal, parapharyngeal, buccinator (facial), preauricular, periparotid, and
intraparotid.

The M classification indicates the absence (M0) or
presence (M1) of distant metastasis. Metastasis are most
commonly found in liver, lung, and skeleton.
Based on the TNM classification, tumors are grouped
according to stage. Stage 0 indicates carcinoma in situ with
no lymph node or distant metastasis; Stage I includes T1
tumors without lymph node invasion or distant metastasis;
Stage II indicates T2 tumors without lymph node invasion
or distant metastasis; Stage III tumors are T3N0 tumors or
T1–3 tumors with N1 lymph node metastasis without distant metastasis; Stage IVA includes resectable T4a tumors
and N2 lymph node metastases without distant metastasis;
Stage IVB have N3 lymph node metastasis and Stage IVC
includes patients with distant metastasis (13,14).
The prognosis of patients with head and neck cancer
is determined by tumor location and stage. Tumors of the
oral cavity, the oropharynx, and hypopharynx have a worse
prognosis compared to tumors at other locations (14).
Higher stage indicates a worse prognosis (14).
Prognosis seems also dependent on the carcinogenesis and patients with a HPV-related cancer have a better
prognosis than those with cancer due to tobacco use (21).

Evaluation of the Patient with Head
and Neck Cancer
Primary Diagnosis
The assessment of the primary tumor (T) is made by
inspection, bimanual palpation, and by both indirect mirror examination and direct endoscopy.
A pan-endoscopic examination under general anesthesia with evaluation of the head and neck region, upper
bronchi, and esophagus is indicated in all patients with
head and neck cancer to evaluate the primary tumor and
to detect second primary tumors.

128

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Both computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are highly sensitive for the detection
of neoplastic invasion of the pre-epiglottic space, paraglottic space, subglottic region, and cartilage. The high negative predictive value of both CT scan and MRI allows
exclusion of neoplastic cartilage invasion. The specificity
of both CT scan and MRI is, however, limited and both
methods may, therefore, overestimate the extent of tumor
spread (22).
When comparing 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron
emission tomography (PET) with CT or MRI for the primary diagnosis of head and neck cancer, the sensitivity of
PET ranges from 85% to 95%, compared with 67–88% for
CT/MRI. The specificity of PET ranges between 80% and
100% whereas it is between 45% and 75% for CT/MRI.
However, CT/MRI is needed for the anatomical visualization, and PET may be a valuable addition to these
examinations.
PET can also detect some, but not all synchronous
primaries that other methods failed to detect. It can also
be used to detect occult primary tumors in patients with
cervical lymph node metastasis (23).
The appropriate nodal (N) drainage areas are examined by careful palpation and imaging [ultrasonography
(US), CT scan].
US combined with fine-needle aspiration cytology for
the evaluation of lymph node metastasis in patients with
head and neck cancer has a sensitivity of 89.2%; a specificity of 98.1%; and an accuracy of 94.5% and is superior to
manual palpation (24).
In a meta-analysis of 32 studies (1,236 patients), PET
sensitivity for identifying lymph node involvement was
79% (95% CI 72–85%) and specificity was 86% (95% CI
83–89%). For cN0 patients, sensitivity of PET was only 50%
(95% CI 37–63%), whereas specificity was 87% (95% CI
76–93%). Overall, the positive likelihood ratio (LR) was
5.84 (95% CI 4.59–7.42) and the negative LR was 0.24 (95%
CI 0.17–0.33) (25). In studies in which both PET and conventional diagnostic tests were performed, sensitivity and
specificity of PET were 80% and 86%, respectively, and of
conventional diagnostic tests were 75% and 79%, respectively. PET does not detect disease in half of the patients
with metastasis and cN0 (23).
The presence of distant metastasis (M) is evaluated
by chest radiography and/or CT scan of the thorax, US of
the liver, and bone scintigraphy; PET can also show distant
metastatic disease.

Residual/Recurrent Local Disease
Diagnosis of residual/recurrent local disease after combined
modality treatment is often difficult. Patients complaining
of chronic or newly developing pain should always be
suspected of residual/recurrent disease. In these patients,
PET has a sensitivity of at least 80% and a specificity of
90% (23). PET appears to be more accurate than CT or MRI.
PET has a positive LR of 4.0 and a negative LR of 0.16
(23). A biopsy remains necessary to confirm local residual
disease or local relapse.

Treatment
Patients with SCCHN may be treated by surgery, radiotherapy, and/or medication. The treatment depends on the

extent of the disease and the patient’s condition. Before
starting a treatment, a multidisciplinary team with at least
a head and neck surgeon, radiotherapist, and medical
oncologist should decide on the most optimal treatment
plan for the patient.
In advanced or recurrent disease, participation in
an investigational protocol should be proposed to the
patient.
Supportive and palliative measures should always be
integrated into the treatment and care of patients with
head and neck cancer.

Patients with Early Stage Disease
Patients with stage I or II disease are classified as having
early stage disease. These patients may be treated with
curative intent using single modality strategies (surgery or
radiotherapy). With this approach 60–90% of patients will
be free of disease after five years (1). There are no randomized trials comparing limited open or endoscopic surgery
with radiotherapy (26). Selection of a treatment modality
depends on primary tumor site, age, comorbidity, occupation, preferences and compliance, quality of life after treatment, availability of experts in each treatment modality,
and a history of a previous malignancy in the head and
neck region. Posttreatment voice outcomes for early glottic
cancer treated by external beam radiotherapy or endoscopic laser excision provide comparable levels of voice
handicap (27).
Surgery. Surgery in early stage disease will be limited and should not result in significant morbidity or longterm anatomic or functional sequels. It has the advantage
of determining the microscopic extent of the disease.
Stage I–II lesions as judged by palpation of the neck
are accompanied by metastatic invasion of lymph nodes in
less than 30% of patients. There is a correlation between
the tumor depth and lymph node metastasis and most
patients with a tumor depth of more or equal to 5 mm have
lymph node metastases. These patients may be candidates
for elective neck dissection (28). Elective neck dissection is
not indicated in other patients with small tumors and surgery may be limited to the primary tumor. A neck dissection can be postponed until recurrence without impairing
the survival (29).
Radiotherapy. External beam radiotherapy is a treatment option in patients with stage I–II disease. Total doses
of 65 Gray (Gy) to 70 Gy administered in daily fractions of
180–200 cGy over six to seven weeks are usual treatment
schedules (30).
Radiotherapy has the advantage of sparing the
anatomical structures and to include potential microscopic disease in the neck. Disadvantages are the treatment
duration of six to seven weeks; acute toxicities such as
mucositis, dermatitis, dysphagia, pain, and temporary loss
of taste; late toxicities such as xerostomia due to decrease
of the salivary gland function, fibrosis, dysphagia, or
osteonecrosis.
However, in selected populations with head and neck
cancer, the irradiation field may be limited by newer radiotherapy techniques (e.g., intensity-modulated radiation
therapy) to a smaller portion of the head and neck region,
avoiding local toxicity and fibrosis.

Chapter 7:

Brachytherapy alone or as a boost after external beam
radiotherapy may be used in patients with squamous cell
carcinoma of oral cavity or oropharynx with a similar
outcome as external beam radiotherapy (30).

Patients with Locally Advanced Disease
Patients with stage III, IVA, and IVB cancers are classified
as having locally advanced disease. Locally advanced
disease may be resectable or unresectable. There is no formal definition of “resectability,” and it varies significantly
between disease site, disease extent, surgeon, and institution. Ideally, the determination of resectability should be
made for each individual patient by the multidisciplinary
team, taking into account the potential functional impact
and survival benefit conferred by each treatment strategy.
• Standard treatment for patients with locally advanced
resectable disease is surgery followed by radiotherapy
or chemoradiation depending on negative prognostic
factors and the general condition of the patient. Another
possible treatment strategy is chemoradiation to preserve
organ function.
• Patients with locally advanced unresectable disease are
candidates for radiotherapy ± chemotherapy. The prognosis of these patients treated with radiotherapy alone
remains poor with a high local relapse rate of 50–60%
at two years and an overall survival of 40% at three
years (1). Recurrence of locoregional disease is the most
common cause of death while some patients develop
distant metastases in the liver, lung, and skeleton.
Several approaches have been studied to improve
treatment outcome and limit toxicity in patients with
locally advanced head and neck cancer.
Radiotherapy. Tumor cell proliferation is influenced
by radiotherapy. Acutely responding tumor cells have a
higher alpha/beta ratio than normal tissues. An increase
in total dose will therefore result in an increase in tumor
kill (31).
Altered Fractionation. The impact of the fraction of the
dose and the number of fractions per day has been studied
extensively in patients with head and neck cancer, resulting in different fractionation schedules (acceleration, hyperfractionation). These fractionation schedules lead to an
increased total dose or dose intensity with higher antitumor activity and less late damage to the normal tissue.
• In accelerated fractionation, the overall time of treatment
is reduced; the total dose and the dose per fraction are
either unchanged or somewhat reduced, depending on
the extent of overall time reduction.
• In hyperfractionated radiotherapy, the total dose is
increased; the dose per fraction is reduced and the fraction number is increased; the overall time is relatively
unchanged.
In a meta-analysis of 15 trials with 6,515 patients and
a median follow-up of six years, there was a benefit in
locoregional control in favor of altered fractionation versus
conventional radiotherapy (6⋅4% at five years; p < 0⋅0001),
which was particularly efficient in reducing local failure,

Head and Neck Cancer

129

whereas the benefit on nodal control was less pronounced.
There was a significant survival benefit with altered fractionated radiotherapy, corresponding to an absolute benefit
of 3.4% at five years (HR 0.92, 95% CI 0.86–0.97; p = 0.003).
The benefit was significantly higher with hyperfractionated
radiotherapy (8% at five years) than with accelerated radiotherapy (2% without total dose reduction and 1.7% with
total dose reduction at five years) (32).
Altered fractionation leads to a higher acute mucosal
toxicity, but does not seem to induce significantly more
severe late effects compared with conventional fractionation, although late toxicity has not been systematically
assessed and reported in all studies so that a moderate
increase of late toxicity cannot be excluded.
Focused Radiotherapy Techniques. Intensity-modulated
radiotherapy (IMRT) is a refinement of three-dimensional
conformal radiotherapy (3DCRT). It uses a computerized
treatment planning system along with sophisticated delivery machineries to tailor the radiation dose to the tumor
target. It has the unique ability to minimize the dose delivered to normal tissues without compromising tumor coverage. As a result, side effects from high-dose radiation have
decreased and patient quality of life has improved.
Although no data of randomized trials are present, single
institution results showed high rates of local control varying from 87% to 94% (33).
Managing Radiotherapy Side Effects. Several trials
studied methods to decrease acute and late side effects of
radiotherapy.
• Amifostine is a cytoprotective agent and proved to
decrease acute and late side effects at the salivary glands,
skin, and mucosa in patients treated with radiotherapy.
It decreased the incidence of xerostomia from 56%
to 34% after one year (p = 0.002) and from 36% to 19%
after two years when given once daily at 200 mg/m²
intravenously 15–30 min before each fraction of radiotherapy. It seemed also effective in patients treated with
chemoradiation (34).
• Palifermin is a recombinant human keratinocyte growth
factor and stimulates cellular proliferation and differentiation in mucosa throughout the alimentary tract,
salivary glands, and type II pneumocytes. Randomized
studies of palifermin in conjunction with concurrent
chemoradiation for head and neck cancer is ongoing
in the definitive treatment and adjuvant postoperative
settings. These studies investigate the use of palifermin in doses of 60 μg/kg/week during and after
chemoradiation (34).
• Benzydamine is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug
and a potent inhibitor of tumor necrosis factor alpha.
It resulted in a 30% reduction in mucosal erythema and
ulceration during radiotherapy. Most of this benefit was
observed once doses greater than 25 Gy had been delivered. One-third of the benzydamine patients did not
develop any mucosal ulceration compared with only
18% of the placebo-treated patients (p = 0.04). However,
although this agent was active against mucositis, data
were inconclusive regarding any meaningful clinical
role in treating this condition. There was no significant
benefit regarding the functional sequels of mucositis (34).

130

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

• Endogenous oral flora may exacerbate the mucosal
inflammatory process once the mucosal integrity is disrupted. Iseganan is a synthetic analog of protegrins that
are naturally occurring peptides with a broad spectrum
antimicrobial activity. In a randomized trial comparing
iseganan plus standard oral care, placebo plus standard
oral care and supportive oral care only, iseganan and
placebo were equivalent to each other but both superior
to standard oral care. Two-thirds of the patients in both
arms had confluent mucositis compared with 79% in
the standard oral care arm (p = 0.02). Only 2% of these
last patients had no mucosal ulceration versus 9% in
both the iseganan and placebo arms (p = 0.04). This
show the importance of adherence to a strict regimen
of oral hygiene during radiotherapy with instruction to
swish and gargle at regular intervals (34).
Local treatment Combined with Medication. Local treatment with surgery or radiotherapy has been combined
with medication to improve the outcome of patients with
locally advanced head and neck cancer. Medication can be
used for its radio-sensitizing effects or for its anticancer
properties. Several sequences of medication (induction or
neoadjuvant, adjuvant, alternating with radiotherapy, concomitant chemoradiation) and local treatments have been
studied.
Induction Chemotherapy. Induction or neoadjuvant chemotherapy prior to local treatment has theoretical advantages. According to the Goldie and Coldman model (35) of
spontaneous mutations, the fraction of drug resistant cells
increases with increasing tumor size. Early treatment with
chemotherapy may minimize the risk of drug resistance.
Other potential advantages of induction chemotherapy are
the reduction in size of the primary tumor and regional
nodal disease, thereby enhancing local control by subsequent surgery or radiotherapy and facilitating surgical
resection; the identification of patients with responding
lesions, who can effectively be managed by surgery or
radiotherapy; the identification of patients, who may benefit from additional therapy after locoregional treatment;
and the treatment of occult metastatic disease.
Potential disadvantages are the delay in locoregional
treatment, which could be associated with tumor regrowth
and dissemination; the selection of chemotherapy and
radio-resistant tumor cells; and the increase of local toxicity through subsequent surgery or radiotherapy.
Several randomized trials have examined induction
chemotherapy in patients with head and neck cancer. In the
older studies, only one study reported a survival benefit
in a subset of patients with unresectable disease, while all
others did not show an improvement in survival. Despite
the high overall response rates, induction chemotherapy
did not have an impact on locoregional control. However,
there were less distant metastases as site of first failure. A
meta-analysis of these studies could not show a survival
benefit for cisplatin-based induction chemotherapy (36).
However, several studies evaluated induction chemotherapy with taxanes followed by (chemo)radiation in
patients with unresectable disease (37–39). In the taxane
arm the response rate, disease-free and overall survival
were higher than in the nontaxane arm with acceptable
toxicity. Based on these studies, taxane-based induction
chemotherapy followed by (chemo)radiation has become

the standard in the treatment of patients with unresectable
disease.
Adjuvant Chemotherapy. Adjuvant chemotherapy is given
after definitive local treatment to treat micrometastases.
Potential advantages of adjuvant chemotherapy are
the immediate start of effective local treatment; the absence
of a preoperative decrease of the general and nutritional
status and of hematological and immunological suppression due to upfront chemotherapy; and the absence of
possible interference with dose and delivery of radiotherapy due to chemotherapy-induced toxicity.
Disadvantages may be the impaired chemotherapy
delivery after surgery and/or radiotherapy by alteration of
the blood flow; the lack of acceptance or tolerance by the
patients to any systemic treatment; the absence of immediate gratification for either patient or physician with poor
patient compliance; and the overtreatment of patients, who
do not benefit from a toxic treatment because of chemoresistant cell lines.
The value of adjuvant chemotherapy has been evaluated in several randomized trials and meta-analysis. No
survival benefit has been demonstrated in these studies of
mixed patient populations (40).
Alternating Chemotherapy and Radiotherapy. Rapidly
alternating chemotherapy with radiotherapy may have
theoretical advantages.
As the fraction of drug-resistant cells increases with
increasing tumor size (35), rapid sequencing of different
treatment modalities may minimize the risk that the tumor
will become resistant. Furthermore, the repopulation after
interruption of radiotherapy may be overcome by chemotherapy. Moreover, by alternating these treatments, the full
therapeutic dose of chemotherapy and radiotherapy may
be given with limited side effects.
Potential disadvantages are the prolongation of the
locoregional treatment with the potential risk of interval
regrowth, increased toxicity leading to delay of treatment
or decreased dose intensity, early dissemination of disease,
and increase of local toxicity of subsequent surgery.
This approach proved to be feasible and has shown
to improve survival in patients with unresectable head and
neck cancer (41).
Concomitant Chemoradiation. The rationale for concomitant use of medication and radiotherapy is that they
each are active against cancer cells and may enhance each
other’s activity. They may also overcome resistant cell
clones because of differences in resistance mechanisms.
Resistance to chemotherapy may be because of decreased
activation or increased metabolization of cytotoxic drugs,
decreased uptake or increased efflux, and changed target
enzymes or enzymatic activity. The activity of radiotherapy
is largely independent of these mechanisms. Another advantage is that it shortens the overall treatment time compared
to sequential therapy. Moreover, it may have an early effect
on micrometastases in case of full dose chemotherapy and
may improve locoregional control. A disadvantage is the
increased local toxicity resulting in a decrease in dose of
either chemotherapy or radiotherapy.
Radiotherapy with Chemotherapy. In patients with
resectable disease and high-risk factors (vascular embolism,

Chapter 7:

perineural disease, extracapsular nodular spread, and positive resection margins), adjuvant treatment after local
resection with the combination of cisplatin (100 mg/m² d1,
d22, d43) and conventional radiotherapy is standard treatment. This approach showed a positive effect on diseasefree and overall survival (42).
In patients with unresectable disease, several randomized trials and meta-analyses have compared chemoradiation with radiotherapy alone. Radiotherapy combined
with simultaneous 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), intravenous or
intra-arterial cisplatin, carboplatin, and mitomycin C as
single drug or combinations of 5-FU with one of the others
resulted in a large survival advantage irrespective of the
employment of radiation schedule (30).
The standard treatment in this patient population
when using chemotherapy is cisplatin (100 mg/m2, d1, d22,
d43) in combination with conventional radiotherapy. However, this may translate in serious toxicity, decreasing the
dose density of cisplatin and interruption of the radiotherapy. Other schedules of cisplatin (e.g., weekly, continuous)
or other agents (e.g., carboplatin, gemcitabine) have been
tested and are used in daily clinical practice.
Radiotherapy with Drugs Influencing or Benefiting of
Hypoxia. Tumor hypoxia is a common phenomenon in
patients with head and neck cancer and has been shown to
adversely affect treatment outcome (33). It is considered an
important factor contributing to radio resistance and decreasing hypoxia, and administering drugs that are cytotoxic in
hypoxic conditions might improve treatment outcome.
• Increasing the oxygen delivery by increasing hemoglobin levels using erythropoiesis stimulating agents (ESAs)
was tested in a randomized trial in head and neck
cancer but led to a worse locoregional progression-free
survival. This could be explained partially by the quadratic regression in partial oxygen pressure (pO2) and
hemoglobin levels: at hemoglobin levels ≤14 g/dL,
increasing hemoglobin levels directly correlates with
increasing pO2; however, at hemoglobin above 14 g/dL,
an inverse correlation is noted with lower pO2 associated with increasing hemoglobin, presumably due to
venostasis (30). More recently, the presence of erythropoietin (EPO) receptors in tumor cells has also been
considered to be implicated with worse outcomes in
patients receiving EPO (30).
• Increased vascular leakage from immature tumoral vasculatures can result in increased interstitial blood pressure, thereby worsening tumor hypoxia and impeding
effective drug delivery to the tumor. Antiangiogenic
agents such as bevacizumab could reverse this process
but this concept has not been tested in patients with
head and neck cancer. Feasibility studies showed that
it was possible to combine bevacizumab with chemoradiation in patients with head and neck cancer (43).
• The combined use of the vasodilator nicotinamide and
carbogen breathing is another possibility to increase pO2.
Accelerated radiotherapy with carbogen and nicotinamide (ARCON) can result in a three-year local control
rate in excess of 80% for advanced stage T3–4 laryngeal
and oropharyngeal cancers. Presently, a Phase III clinical trial testing the efficacy of ARCON in laryngeal
cancers is ongoing in Europe (30).

Head and Neck Cancer

131

• Tirapazamine is an agent that has a high selectivity for
killing hypoxic cells. However, it has several limitations
including a poor diffusion through hypoxic tissue and
its requirement of less stringent hypoxia for activation
that can result in normal tissue toxicity in poorly oxygenated organs. Although promising results were seen
in a randomized Phase II trial with tirapazamine combined with cisplatin and radiotherapy, a Phase III trial
in 861 patients with stage III or IV compared to conventional radiotherapy (70 Gy in seven weeks) concurrently with either cisplatin (100 mg/m²) on weeks 1,
4, and 7, or cisplatin (75 mg/m²) plus tirapazamine
(290 mg/m²/day) on weeks 1, 4, and 7, or tirapazamine
alone (160 mg/m²/day) on days 1, 3, and 5 of weeks 2
and 3 it showed no significant differences in failure-free
survival, locoregional relapse rate, or overall survival.
Due to toxicity resulting in radiotherapy protocol deviations, the combination of cisplatin and tirapazamine
led to an increased risk of death (HR 1.56; p < 0.0001),
any failure (HR 1.65; p < 0.0001), and locoregional
failure (HR 1.82; p = 0.0002) (44).
Radiotherapy with Targeted Agents. Ionizing radiation
has the potential to enhance proliferation of the surviving
fraction of cells and to promote the long-term resistance
to multiple cytotoxic stresses due to DNA damage and
the generation of reactive oxygen species, with subsequent rapid activation of wild-type p53, ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM), and ATM and Rad3-related protein as
well as the activation of growth factor receptors in the
plasma membrane (e.g., ERBB family receptors). Receptor
activation enhances the activities of RAS family transducer
molecules that mediate signaling from the membrane to
cause activation of multiple cytosolic signal transduction
pathways (e.g., RAF-1/MAPK/ERK/PI3K pathways), which
play a role in the long-term effects of cell survival and the
regulation of cell growth (45). Targeted agents interact with
specific steps in the cellular pathways and may block the
activated pathways.
The EGFR and its ligands have been recognized as
critical proteins in SCCHN and have been linked with poor
outcome. Cetuximab is a human-chimeric monoclonal antibody which competitively binds to the extracellular receptor site. In a randomized trial in patients with stage III–IV
locoregional advanced head and neck cancer the combination of cetuximab (intravenous loading dose of 400 mg/m²
one week before starting radiotherapy, followed by a dose
of 250 mg/m² weekly during radiotherapy) resulted in a
higher locoregional control duration (24.4 vs. 14.9 months,
HR 0.68; p = 0.005) and longer progression-free duration
(17.1 vs. 12.4 months, HR 0.70; p = 0.006) and overall survival (49.0 vs. 29.3 months, HR 0.74; p = 0.03) compared
to radiotherapy alone. With the exception of acneiform
rash and infusion reactions, the incidence of Grade 3 or
greater toxic effects did not differ significantly between the
two groups (46).
Radiotherapy with Radio-Sensitizers. Several antimetabolites (e.g., 5-FU, hydroxyurea, gemcitabine) have been
shown to have radio-sensitizing properties in vitro. They
target DNA replication by inhibition of the biosynthesis of
deoxyribonucleotides for DNA replication (thymidylate synthase inhibitors, such as 5-FU, and ribonucleotide reductase

132

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

inhibitors, such as hydroxyurea), or by becoming substrates
for DNA polymerases (nucleoside/nucleobase analogs,
such as gemcitabine). Some of the antimetabolite radiosensitizers have more than one of these actions (47).
Several trials have studied the addition of these
drugs to radiotherapy as radio-sensitizers in patients with
locally advanced resectable and unresectable head and
neck cancer. The doses of these drugs are lower than when
used as cytotoxic agents (e.g., gemcitabine). In phase I–II
studies the combination of these drugs was feasible, but
their value should be confirmed in randomized trials.

Patients with Recurrent and/or
Metastatic Disease
Patients with locoregional recurrent disease after failure of
surgery or radiotherapy alone may be salvaged by further
surgery and/or radiotherapy.
Reirradiation in combination with chemotherapy for
salvage following failure of radiotherapy has resulted in
long-term survival in a small number of patients. It may
be considered for small recurrences after radiation therapy,
especially in patients who refuse or are not candidates for
surgery. This approach has been studied by several groups
combining radiotherapy with several chemotherapy schedules including hydroxyurea-5-FU-cisplatin. These treatments
are tolerable and long-term disease-free survival has been
reported. However, careful patient selection is required
because of the relatively high incidence of treatmentrelated morbidity (48).
In patients with unresectable locally recurrent disease
that is not amenable for reirradiation or with metastatic
disease, the median survival is six months with 20% of
patients being alive at one year. There is no clear indication
that the use of chemotherapy has changed these statistics.
A study by the European Organization for Research and
Treatment of Cancer failed to answer the question whether
weekly methotrexate plus best supportive care was superior to best supportive care alone due to insufficient
accrual.
However, patients with local recurrent disease or
distant metastases may be treated with chemotherapy in a
palliative setting to alleviate symptoms. Chemotherapy
may induce responses in 10–40% of patients, depending on
the pretreatment. However, responses normally last only
for three to six months (1).
The most active agents and their response rates
are listed in Table 7.1. These data are cumulative data
and response rates in different studies differed widely due

Table 7.1 Activity of Single Agents in Recurrent and/or Metastatic
Squamous Cell Cancer of the Head and Neck
Agent
Methotrexate
5-fluorouracil
Bleomycin
Cisplatin
Paclitaxel
Docetaxel

Number of patients

Response rate (%)

998
118
347
288
67
146

31
15
21
28
33
29

to patient-related (performance status, prior treatment)
and tumor-related factors (extent and site of disease) in
addition to treatment-related factors.
Single Agent Treatment. Response rates of 20% or more
have been reported in nonrandomized studies for single
agent intravenous methotrexate, cisplatin, 5-FU, bleomycin,
anthracyclines, docetaxel and paclitaxel, topotecan, vinorelbine, and gemcitabine. In randomized studies, these
response rates decrease and there are no randomized trials
of single agents to suggest a superiority of any drug over
standard-dosed methotrexate.
A cisplatin-containing gel may be directly injected
into the tumor and this technique was tested in a small
Phase III trial in which 87 patients were randomly assigned
to either cisplatin (n = 62) or placebo gel for six weekly
intra-tumoral injections in an eight-week period. The
response rate was 34% in the cisplatin arm versus 0% in
the placebo arm (p < 0.001). More patients treated with
cisplatin gel achieved palliative benefit than did those
treated with placebo gel (37% vs. 12%; p = 0.036). The
most frequent side effects were local pain and local cutaneous reactions, which resolved over 3–12 weeks. Renal and
hematologic toxicities were rare (49).
Targeted agents have also been tested as first-line
treatment in patients with recurrent/metastatic head and
neck cancer.
Erlotinib is an oral tyrosine-kinase inhibitor that was
administered in an oral dose of 150 mg/day to 115 patients
with advanced recurrent and/or metastatic squamous cell
cancer of the head and neck. The overall objective response
rate was 4.3% (95% CI 1.4–9.9%) and disease stabilization
was obtained in 38.3% for a median duration of 16.1 weeks.
The median progression-free survival was 9.6 weeks
(95% CI 8.1–12.1 weeks) and the median overall survival
6 months (95% CI 4.8–7.0 months). Subgroup analyses
revealed a significant difference in overall survival favoring patients who developed at least grade 2 skin rashes
versus those who did not (p = 0.045). Rash and diarrhea
were the most common drug-related toxicities, encountered in 79% and 37% of patients, respectively (50).
The prognosis for patients progressing after first-line
treatment is particularly poor. In these patients, the alternative therapeutic options are discouraging and the response
rates are generally less than 5%. Single agent cetuximab
was tested alone in 103 patients who progressed after
platinum-based chemotherapy. There was a response rate
of 13% and a disease control rate (complete response/
partial response/stable disease) of 46% with a median time
to progression of 70 days. These results show that cetuximab is active as a single agent in this group of patients
whose prognosis is particularly dismal (51).
Combination Therapy. Several combination schedules
have been tested in patients with head and neck cancer.
The standard combination schedule of intravenous cisplatin (100 mg/m²/day, d1) with continuous 5-FU (1000 mg/
m²/day, d1–d4) every three weeks can induce response
rates of 40% in first-line treatment (1). Combination chemotherapy does give higher response rates compared to
single agent methotrexate but at the cost of increased toxicity and with no gain in survival in patients with recurrent
and/or metastatic disease (52).

Chapter 7:

Newer drugs have been used to replace one of the
drugs in the standard cisplatin and 5-FU combination.
In a Phase III study, 218 patients with locally advanced,
recurrent, or metastatic disease were randomly assigned to
standard cisplatin-5-FU or cisplatin 75 mg/m² and paclitaxel 175 mg/m² every three weeks until progression or a
minimum of six cycles with complete response or stable
disease. There was no significant difference in overall survival (8.7 vs. 8.1 months) or response rate (27% vs. 26%).
Toxicity was similar between groups and most frequently
myelosuppression with thrombocytopenia and anemia,
nausea and vomiting, and stomatitis were reported (52).
The Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group carried out
a Phase III trial where 117 patients with recurrent/metastatic
SCCHN were randomly assigned to receive cisplatin
100 mg/m² every four weeks, with weekly cetuximab or
placebo. There was a higher response rate in the cetuximab
arm than in the placebo arm (26% vs. 10%; p = 0.03) but
no difference in progression-free or overall survival (53).
Erlotinib was also combined with cisplatin in patients
with recurrent or metastatic SCCHN and a daily oral dose
of erlotinib 100 mg could be combined with intravenous
cisplatin 75 mg/m² every 21 days. The response rate in
45 patients treated at this dose was 21% (95% CI 10–36%),
and disease stabilization was achieved in 21 patients (49%,
95% CI 33–65%). Median progression-free survival was
3.3 months (95% CI 2.7–4.8 months) and median overall
survival 7.9 months (95% CI 5.6–9.5). Subgroup analysis
suggested that patients who developed higher grade
skin rashes during Cycle 1 had better survival outcomes
(p = 0.034) (54).
Cetuximab (400 mg/m² followed by 250 mg/m²/week)
was added to a platinum-based combination (cisplatin
100 mg/m² or carboplatin area under the curve 5 mg/ml/min)
plus 5-FU (1000 mg/m²/d for 4 days) every 3 weeks for a
maximum of 6 cycles in a randomized study in 442 patients
with untreated recurrent or metastatic SCCHN. In the group
of patients treated with the cetuximab combination there was
a prolonged median progression-free survival time (3.3 vs. 5.6
months, HR 0.54; p<0.001), an increased response rate (20 vs.
36%; p<0.001) and better median overall survival (7.4 vs.
10.1 months; HR 0.80; 95% CI 0.64 to 0.99; p=0.04) (73).
Cetuximab has also been combined with cisplatin as
second-line treatment after platinum-based chemotherapy.
Overall response rates ranged from 10% to 13% and disease control rates from 46% to 56%. The median time to
disease progression was between 2.2 and 2.8 months, and
the median overall survival between 5.2 and 6.1 months.
Cetuximab did not increase the toxicities associated with
chemotherapy (51).
At the moment, single agent methotrexate (40 mg/m²/
week and escalated depending on tolerance) still remains
the standard in patients with recurrent/metastatic disease,
although the cisplatin/5-FU combination may induce
higher responses. The addition of cetuximab to a platinum5-FU combination increases overall survival and might be
considered as first-line treatment in patients with a good
condition.

Supportive Care
Patients who undergo treatment for head and neck cancers
often suffer from acute or late reactions to therapy.

Head and Neck Cancer

133

Acute toxicity ranges from mild complains such
as gastrointestinal disturbances (nausea, vomiting, dysphagia) or pain to life-threatening complication such as
severe mucositis leading to weight loss and necessitating
enteral or total parenteral nutrition or hematologic toxicity
(neutropenic fever). Late toxicity is mutilation from surgery, xerostomia, fibrosis or osteonecrosis because of radiotherapy, permanent tube feeding, or speech impairment
(55). Therefore, head and neck cancer patients are in need
of intense supportive care during and after therapy. Following surgical neck dissection and external beam radiation they need rehabilitation and they should be taken care
for by a multidisciplinary team for support, revalidation,
and rehabilitation (56).

Chemoprevention
Most patients with Stage I and Stage II disease may be
treated successfully. However, failure remains common
and is manifested by local recurrences or second primary
cancers. These second primary tumors occur in other sites
within the head and neck region, in the esophagus, or
the lung. They are consequences of field cancerization of
the upper aerodigestive tract due to chronic exposure to
tobacco and alcohol.
The prevalence of a concomitant second primary
tumor lays around 14%. The expected incidence of second
primaries varies by initial cancer site and by tobacco use
and is estimated to be 4% each year (57). Prevention of
second cancers is therefore of great clinical relevance.
Several randomized trials of β-carotene and retinoids have reported significant chemopreventive efficacy in
oral precancerous lesions (58). Retinoids have also been
evaluated as chemopreventive agents in head and neck
cancer, with one trial reporting significant benefit with
regard to second primary tumors but two others showing
no benefit. β-carotene did not prevent second head and
neck cancers (58).
New compounds are tested in chemoprevention trials
in head and neck cancer such as curcumin analogs, green
tea extracts, and agents such as selenium, polyphenols of
pomegranate juice, Bowman–Birk inhibitor from soybeans,
and others. The National Cancer Institute has funded a
series of large individual or multi-investigator studies looking at combinations of celecoxib, a selective COX-2 inhibitor with erlotinib on the basis of extensive clinical data
suggesting efficacy in head and neck cancer cell lines and
xenografts (58).
At this moment, there is no indication to use these
interventions in the secondary prevention of head and
neck cancer outside a clinical trial. Most important is to
advice patients to quit smoking and limit alcohol intake in
combination with healthy nutrition.

Follow up
Patients with head and neck cancer have a high incidence
of second malignancies but there are no evidence-based
guidelines for follow up (59).
Hypothyroidism is seen in 15–45% of patients treated
for head and neck cancer with radiotherapy (60). Therefore,
a control of the thyroid function is indicated every six
months after radiotherapy.

134

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

NASOPHARYNGEAL CANCER
Introduction
Nasopharyngeal cancer is clearly a distinct tumor entity
among head and neck cancers. It has a specific geographical distribution, epidemiology, clinical expression, and
response to treatment.

Epidemiology
In Europe, it represents a rare disease with an annual
incidence of less than 1 per 100,000. The incidence is higher
in the Mediterranean countries of Europe (Greece, former
Yugoslavia, Italy, France, Spain), whereas it is endemic in
the Far East (1).
It is related to the Epstein–Barr virus (EBV)
infection (61).

Pathology
Nasopharyngeal cancer is classified according to the World
Health Organization (62) in different categories including
nonkeratinizing carcinoma, keratinizing squamous cell
carcinoma, and basaloid squamous cell carcinoma. The
keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma is the most frequent
type in the Western countries whereas the nonkeratinizing
(undifferentiated) form is more frequently seen in the Far
East (1).

Staging and Prognosis
Nasopharyngeal cancer has its own TNM classification
system (13,14) both for the primary tumor site (which is
not based on tumor dimensions) and for nodal extension
(Table 7.2).
The distribution and the prognostic impact of regional
lymph node spread is different from those of other head and
neck mucosal cancers justifying a different N classification.
Undifferentiated nasopharyngeal cancer has a high
propensity to distant failure, which may occur in up to
30% of patients whose disease is controlled locally and in
40% of patients with locoregional failure (61).

Evaluation of a Patient with Nasopharyngeal Cancer
Diagnosis is made by a biopsy during a pan-endoscopic
evaluation under anesthesia. Staging of the disease should
include an MRI of the head and neck region, which seems
to be superior to CT scan.
A total body radiological evaluation, along with a
bone scan, is highly recommended mainly in patients with
undifferentiated nasopharyngeal cancer. All these examinations can be replaced by a PET scan.
EBV integration in tumor cells is useful to prove the
disease while serum levels of EBV-DNA are useful to
determine prognosis and during follow-up.
Regular follow up after treatment completion is suggested for early detection of locoregional relapse that may
be still curable.

Treatment
Before starting treatment, a multidisciplinary team with
a head and neck surgeon, a radiotherapist, and a medical

Table 7.2

TNM Definitions of Nasopharyngeal Cancer

Primary tumor (T)
• TX: Primary tumor cannot be assessed
• T0: No evidence of primary tumor
• Tis: Carcinoma in situ
• T1: Tumor confined to the nasopharynx
• T2: Tumor extends to soft tissues
° T2a: Tumor extends to the oropharynx and/or nasal cavity
without parapharyngeal extensiona
° T2b: Any tumor with parapharyngeal extensiona
• T3: Tumor invades bony structures and/or paranasal sinuses
• T4: Tumor with intracranial extension and/or involvement of
cranial nerves, infratemporal fossa, hypopharynx, orbit, or
masticator space
Parapharyngeal extension denotes posterolateral infiltration of tumor
beyond the pharyngobasilar fascia
Regional lymph nodes (N)
• NX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed
• N0: No regional lymph node metastasis
• N1: Unilateral metastasis in lymph node(s), 6 cm or less in
greatest dimension, above the supraclavicular fossaa
• N2: Bilateral metastasis in lymph node(s), 6 cm or less in greatest
dimension, above the supraclavicular fossaa
• N3: Metastasis in a lymph node(s)a >6 cm and/or to
supraclavicular fossa
° N3a: Greater than 6 cm in dimension
° N3b: Extension to the supraclavicular fossab
Distant metastasis (M)
• MX: Distant metastasis cannot be assessed
• M0: No distant metastasis
• M1: Distant metastasis
AJCC stage groupings of nasopharyngeal cancer
Stage 0
Tis
N0
Stage I
T1
N0
Stage IIA
T2a
N0
Stage IIB
T1-T2a-b
N1
T2b
N0
Stage III
T1
N2
T2a-b
N2
T3
N1-2
Stage IVA
T4
N0-2
Stage IVB
Any T
N3
Stage IVC
Any T
Any N

M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M1

a

Midline nodes are considered ipsilateral nodes.
Supraclavicular zone or fossa is relevant to the staging of nasopharyngeal
carcinoma and is the triangular region originally described by Ho. It is defined
by three points: (1) the superior margin of the sternal end of the clavicle, (2) the
superior margin of the lateral end of the clavicle, (3) the point where the neck
meets the shoulder. Note that this would include caudal portions of levels IV and
V. All cases with lymph nodes (whole or part) in the fossa are considered N3b.
Source: From Ref. 14.
b

oncologist should decide on the most optimal treatment
plan for the patient.
Unlike other head and neck cancers, surgery plays
a minor role in the treatment of nasopharyngeal cancer
whereas radiotherapy is the main treatment modality. All
histotypes but in particular the nonkeratinizing type are
particularly sensitive to radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
Treatment is delivered according to tumor stage. Early
stage tumors are treated with radiotherapy alone while
concomitant chemoradiation is the standard treatment for
advanced stage III and IV nasopharyngeal cancer. Modern

Chapter 7:

radiotherapy including IMRT together with concomitant
chemotherapy has significantly improved patient’s outcome, so that today the majority of patients with nasopharyngeal cancer can be cured. The role of induction
chemotherapy is still debated and is marginal as compared
to concomitant chemotherapy that has to be delivered
during radiotherapy (61,63).
Nasopharyngeal cancer is sensitive to cisplatin-based
regimens. Cisplatin alone is the treatment of choice when
radiotherapy is given concomitantly.
Induction chemotherapy usually combining cisplatin,
5-FU, and epirubicin with or without bleomycin and more
recently with taxanes is feasible (63).
Locoregional recurrent disease might be cured with
reirradiation or salvage surgery in selected patients; in
most patients palliative platinum-based polychemotherapy
is the treatment of choice. Response rates are not negligible
and a good disease control can be achieved. Painful bone
metastases should be irradiated.

•

•
•

•

THYROID CANCER
Introduction
Although thyroid cancer is an uncommon cancer, it is the
most common malignancy of the endocrine system (64).
Most thyroid cancers (95%) are differentiated cancers
deriving from the follicular epithelial cells and are either
papillary or follicular thyroid carcinomas. Another 5% are
medullary carcinomas and 1% is of anaplastic histology.
When managed adequately, the vast majority of
patients with thyroid cancer can be cured.
After treatment, local or regional recurrences develop
in up to 30% of patients and distant metastases in up to
20%. The recurrence rate increases in time and cumulative
40-year recurrence rates are about 35% (65). Overall 8–10%
of patients with a diagnosis of thyroid cancer die of their
disease.

Epidemiology
Thyroid cancer accounts for 1% of all new cancers and
affects women more commonly than men. It occurs primarily in young and middle aged adults, rarely in children.
The mean age is the mid-40s to mid-50s for the papillary
type, 50s for the follicular and medullary type, and 60s
for the less common undifferentiated (anaplastic) type.
Standardized incidence rates per 100,000 population vary
in different parts of the world from 0.8 to 5.0 in men and
1.9 to 19.4 in women. The incidence of this malignancy has
been increasing over the last decade.
Risk factors for thyroid cancer are radiation exposure
during childhood, endemic goiter, lymphocytic thyroiditis,
family or personal history of thyroid nodules, Cowden’s
syndrome, familial adenomatosis polyposis, and familial
thyroid cancer.

Carcinogenesis
Several defects in tumor suppressor genes and oncogenes
have been described in patients with thyroid cancer.
• The activation of RET proto-oncogene due to several
mechanism (gain-of-function mutations or chromosomal

Head and Neck Cancer

135

rearrangements) plays a causative role in the pathogenesis of a large proportion of papillary cancer. Also
among the hereditary and sporadic forms of medullary
cancer, germ-line activating point mutations of the RET
proto-oncogene are observed.
The activation of B-Raf is another genetic alteration
involved in thyroid cancer pathogenesis. The B-Raf V600E
mutation is the most common genetic change in papillary cancer, B-Raf mutation is also present in up to 24%
of anaplastic carcinomas arisen in association with
papillary cancer.
Oncogenic ras mutations occur rarely, in about 10% of
patients, mostly in the follicular variant.
Elevated levels of vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF) have been found in thyroid tumor tissue
compared to normal thyroid, and it could be hypothesized that other pathways, such as VEGFR- and EGFRdependent signaling, also participate in tumor growth
and development.
Anaplastic cancer expresses along with TP53 mutations
and also other targets such as beta-catenine, cyclin E
and cyclin D1, and EGFR. No EGFR mutations or gene
amplifications were found in a little series of anaplastic carcinoma, while high polisomy was detected by
fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in 61% of
patients.

Clinical significance of these observations is still unknown,
although these targets could be considered for biological
therapies (66).

Pathology
The most recent WHO 2004 pathologic classification is
reported in Table 7.3.

Screening
Patients with medullary cancer, whether familial or sporadic, should be tested for RET mutations. If they are
positive, family members should also be tested.
Family members who are gene carriers should
undergo specific close monitoring or prophylactic thyroidectomy at an early age depending on mutation type.

Clinical Manifestations
Thyroid cancer commonly presents as a solitary or multinodular swelling in the neck. It may give rise to hoarseness
or stridor and swelling of the cervical lymph nodes.
In case of distant metastasis, there may be pain due
to bone metastases.

Table 7.3

Pathology of Thyroid Cancer

• Papillary carcinoma
° Papillary/follicular carcinoma
• Follicular carcinoma
° Hurthle cell carcinoma
• Medullary carcinoma
• Anaplastic carcinoma
° Small cell carcinoma
° Giant cell carcinoma

136

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Medullary carcinoma usually presents as a hard
thyroidal mass and is often accompanied by blood vessel
invasion. Metastasis to regional lymph nodes are found in
about 50% of patients. It occurs in two forms: a sporadic
and familial form. In the sporadic form, the tumor is usually
unilateral. In the familial form, the tumor is almost always
bilateral and may be associated with benign or malignant
tumors of other endocrine organs, commonly referred to
as the multiple endocrine neoplasia syndromes (MEN
2A or MEN 2B). In these syndromes, there is an association with pheochromocytoma of the adrenal gland and
parathyroid hyperplasia.

Staging and Prognosis
The staging of thyroid cancers is based on the TNM classification of the International Union against Cancer (13) and
the American Joint Committee on Cancer (14) (Table 7.4).
It is a clinical classification. The pathological classification
is similar to the clinical classification.
• The T classification indicates the extent of the primary
tumor. It is based on the size of the tumor, whereas
T4 indicates that the tumor extends beyond the thyroid
capsule (14).
• The N classification for cervical lymph node metastasis
is based on the localization of the lymph nodes in the
neck (unilateral/bilateral).
• The M classification indicates the absence (M0) or presence (M1) of distant metastasis. Metastases are most
often found in liver, lung, and skeleton.
Based on the TNM classification, histology, and age
thyroid cancers are grouped according to stage (Table 7.4).
Several risk scoring systems have been proposed.
Three of these which are the most frequently used are AGES
(based on age, grade, extent, size); AMES (based on age, size,
extent, distant metastasis); and MACIS (based on age, size,
local invasion, completeness of resection, distant metastasis).
The prognostic significance of lymph node status remains
controversial (13). All these systems have shortcomings
such as histotype variants and genetic profile.

Evaluation of a Patient with Thyroid Cancer
The assessment of the primary tumor is by inspection and
bimanual palpation of the thyroid and the neck. A neck
ultrasound and a fine needle biopsy will give the diagnosis.
In addition to the clinical examination, calcitonine
(medullary carcinoma), a thyroid function test, thyroid
antibodies, and thyroglobulin should be determined (67).
Additional tests particularly in patients with large
neck masses are inspection of the function of the vocal
cords, and a CT scan without Iodine (I)-containing contrast
or MRI of the thyroid and neck region.
Distant metastasis can be detected by chest radiography and 123I or Technetium scintigraphy.

Treatment
Before treatment, a multidisciplinary team with a head
and neck surgeon, a radiotherapist, an endocrinologist, a
pathologist, and a medical oncologist should decide on the
most optimal treatment plan for the patient.
All patients with a differentiated thyroid cancer
should be treated by surgery (65,68). A thyroidectomy and

Table 7.4

TNM Classification of Thyroid Cancer

Primary tumor (T)
All categories may be subdivided into (a) solitary tumor or
(b) multifocal tumor (the largest determines the classification).
• TX: Primary tumor cannot be assessed
• T0: No evidence of primary tumor
• T1: Tumor 2 cm or less in greatest dimension limited to the thyroid
• T2: Tumor more than 2 cm but not more than 4 cm in greatest
dimension limited to the thyroid
• T3: Tumor more than 4 cm in greatest dimension limited to the
thyroid or any tumor with minimal extrathyroid extension (e.g.,
extension to sternothyroid muscle or perithyroid soft tissues)
• T4a: Tumor extends beyond the thyroid capsule and invades any
of the following: subcutaneous soft tissue, larynx, trachea,
oesophagus, recurrent laryngeal nerve
• T4b: Tumor invades prevertebral fascia, mediastinal vessels, or
encases carotid artery (any size) extends beyond the thyroid
capsule
Regional lymph nodes (N)
• NX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed
• N0: No regional lymph node metastasis
• N1: Regional lymph node metastasis
° N1a: Metastasis in level IV (pretracheal and paratracheal,
including pretracheal and Delphian lymph nodes)
° N1b: Metastasis in other unilateral, bilateral, or contralateral
cervical or upper/superior mediastinal lymph nodes
Distant metastases (M)
• MX: Distant metastasis cannot be assessed
• M0: No distant metastasis
• M1: Distant metastasis
Stage grouping
Papillary or follicular under 45 years
Stage I
Stage II

Any T
Any T

Any N
Any N

M0
M1

Papillary or follicular 45 years and older and medullary
Stage I
T1
N0
Stage II
T2
N0
Stage III
T3
N0
T1-3
N1a
Stage IVA
T1-3
N1b
T4a
N0,1
Stage IVB
T4b
Any N
Stage IVC
Any T
Any N

M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M1

Anaplastic/undifferentiated (all cases are stage IV)
Stage IVA
T4a
Any N
Stage IVB
T4b
Any N
Stage IVC
Any T
Any N

M0
M0
M1

Source: From Ref. 14.

a lymph node dissection of Level VI should be performed.
In case of suspicious lymph nodes at other levels, a frozen
section examination has to be done, and in case of tumor
invasion, lymph node dissection of levels II, III, and IV
should be performed. Postoperative radiotherapy in poorly
differentiated cancers with poor prognostic features such
as T extension and presence of nodal involvement has been
advocated (68).

Papillary Carcinoma and Follicular Carcinoma
In patients with tumors smaller than 1 cm and no lymph
node involvement, a lobectomy and thyroid stimulating
hormone (TSH) suppression therapy is sufficient.

Chapter 7:

In high-risk patients (documented persistent or at high
risk of persistent or recurrent disease), a total thyroidectomy followed by 131I ablation and long-term TSH suppression therapy is indicated (67).
In all other patients (low-risk group) radio-ablation
is still controversial.
Radio-ablation with 131I will be started three to four
weeks after surgery without thyroid substitution therapy.
TSH should at that moment be higher than 30 mu/L.
In case tri-iodothyronine was started postoperatively, it
should be stopped for two weeks before radio-ablation.
Long-term TSH suppression is with thyroxine. The
dose of thyroxine should gradually be increased until TSH
levels are below 0.1 mu/L.

Medullary Carcinoma
The primary treatment is a total thyroidectomy and lymph
node dissection. Adjuvant radiotherapy is not given, but
radiotherapy may be used for local control in patients with
inoperable or recurrent disease. Targeted radiotherapy with
somatostatin analogs or 131I-meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG)
has a very limited value. Chemotherapy based on dacarbazine either alone or in combination has been associated with
tumor reduction in approximately 30% of patients.

Anaplastic Carcinoma
This is a very aggressive tumor with a median survival of
less than six months. Surgery is indicated to maintain an
open airway and is followed by external radiotherapy with
or without chemotherapy. Some authors claim that chemoradiation followed by surgery gives a better result.
Many patients may present with unresectable neck
masses; in this situation chemoradiation with cisplatin
represents the standard treatment.
In patients with metastatic disease, chemotherapy may
be used for palliation. Doxorubicin, paclitaxel, and cisplatin
have some activity in these patients (69).

Recurrent Disease
For recurrent disease in the thyroid bed or cervical lymph
nodes of papillary and follicular carcinoma, surgery in combination with radio-ablation is the treatment of choice.
Metastatic disease should be treated with radioablation. Painful bone metastases may be treated with
external beam radiotherapy.
In radio-iodine-resistant tumors chemotherapy is
not effective although some responses have been reported
with doxorubicin (less than 20%). Some authors reported
promising results in patients with poorly differentiated
thyroid cancer treated with chemotherapy preceded by
TSH stimulation (68).
Targeted therapy with tyrosine kinase inhibitors
has been recently proven to be of some interest in radioiodine-resistant and medullary cancer (66). Promising drugs
are axitinib, sorafenib, vandetanib, motesanib, and sunitinib
(68). Also, thalidomide has shown some activity (68).

Follow up
Patients with thyroid cancer should be followed for early
detection of recurrence and for efficacy of TSH suppression. Patients are seen every three months during the first
two years, then every six months during the third year and

Head and Neck Cancer

137

then once yearly. Medullary cancer should be followed with
serum calcitonin and carcino-embryonic antigen (CEA).

SALIVARY GLAND TUMORS
Introduction
Salivary glands contribute to less than 1% of head and
neck cancers. The most common salivary gland cancers are
localized in the major glands (parotid, submandibular, and
sublingual). Carcinomas of the minor salivary glands originate from submucosal glands located in the upper aerodigestive tract and are most commonly localized in the soft
palate (19%), followed by the paranasal sinuses/nasal
cavity (17%), and the tongue (14%) (70).

Epidemiology
Salivary gland tumors are more frequent in Europe and
North America compared to Asia and Africa. They are
more common in men than in women with an incidence
ratio of 1.3:1 (70).
Risk factors for salivary gland cancer include exposure to radiation and tobacco use (70).

Carcinogenesis
Genetic abnormalities in salivary glands cancers include
trisomy 8, loss of genetic material (Y chromosome), and loss
of heterogeneity in 6q21–23.3 and 6q27 (71). These chromosomal abnormalities may reflect inactivation of tumor
suppressor genes. Specific histological tumor types are also
associated with specific abnormalities: adenoid cystic carcinoma has a translocation [t(6;9)(q21–24;p13–23)] as well
as mucoepidermoid carcinoma [t(11;19)(q14–21;p12–13)] (71).
Among several biological alterations molecular analysis has shown Her-2 and EGFR amplification/overexpression
particularly in malignant tumors originating from excretory
duct, such as salivary duct cancer and adenocarcinoma.
Also, androgen receptors have been found to be overexpressed mainly in the same histotypes.
Kit was shown to be overexpressed mainly in adenoid cystic carcinoma while VEGFR overexpression has
been seen in mucoepidermoid cancer and adenoid cystic
carcinoma (71).

Pathology
The most recent pathologic classification for salivary gland
cancer is that of the World Health Organization (62)
reported in Table 7.5.

Clinical Manifestations
Every painless swelling of a major salivary gland without
signs of inflammation is suspicious. More than 80% of the
tumors in the parotid are benign while more than 50% of
those arising in the submandibular or sublingual glands
are malignant.
Clinical indicators suggesting a malignant salivary
gland tumor are rapid growth, pain, facial nerve involvement, and cervical adenopathy. Facial nerve palsy may be a
sign of a locally infiltrating parotid cancer. Another symptom
is parapharyngeal or palatal fullness. Trismus, skin ulceration,
and fistulae may be present in advanced stages.

138

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 7.5

Malignant Tumors of the Salivary Glands

Table 7.6

TNM Classification of Salivary Gland Tumors

• Low-grade malignancies:
° Acinic cell tumors
° Mucoepidermoid carcinoma (grades I or II)
• High-grade malignancies:
° Mucoepidermoid carcinoma (Grade III)
° Adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated carcinoma, anaplastic
carcinoma
° Squamous cell carcinoma
° Malignant mixed tumors
° Adenoid cystic carcinoma

Primary tumor (T)
• TX: Primary tumor cannot be assessed
• T0: No evidence of primary tumor
• T1: Tumor 2 cm or less in greatest dimension without
extraparenchymal extension
• T2: Tumor more than 2 cm but not more than 4 cm in greatest
dimension without extraparenchymal extension
• T3: Tumor more than 4 cm and/or extraparenchymal extension
• T4a: Tumor invades skin, mandible, ear cancal, and/or facial
nerve
• T4b: Tumor invades base of skull and/or pterygoid plates and/or
encases carotid artery

Minor salivary gland tumors may cause a painless submucosal swelling or a mass with a small ulcer. If the nasopharynx or the nasal cavity is infiltrated, facial pain, nasal
obstruction, or bleeding may occur. A tumor in the larynx or
trachea can cause hoarseness, voice changes, or dyspnea.

Regional lymph nodes (N)
• NX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed
• N0: No regional lymph node metastasis
• N1: Metastasis in a single ipsilateral lymph node, 3 cm or less in
greatest dimension
• N2: Metastasis in a single ipsilateral lymph node, more than 3 cm
but not more than 6 cm in greatest dimension, or in multiple
ipsilateral lymph nodes, none more than 6 cm in greatest
dimension, or in bilateral or contralateral lymph nodes, none
more than 6 cm in greatest dimension
° N2a: Metastasis in a single ipsilateral lymph node more than
3 cm but not more than 6 cm in greatest dimension
° N2b: Metastasis in multiple ipsilateral lymph nodes, none
more than 6 cm in greatest dimension
° N2c: Metastasis in bilateral or contralateral lymph nodes,
none more than 6 cm in greatest dimension
• N3: Metastasis in a lymph node more than 6 cm in greatest
dimension

Staging and Prognosis
The staging of salivary gland cancers is based on the TNM
of the International Union against Cancer (13) and American Joint Committee on Cancer (14) (Table 7.6). It is a
clinical classification. The pathological classification is
similar to the clinical classification.
Tumor stage, histology, and grade are independent
prognostic factors for survival (88). The prognosis of adenoid cystic carcinoma depends on perineural invasion,
positive margins, and solid histological features (72).
Distant metastases occur in approximately 30% of
patients. In adenoid cystic carcinoma it may reach 50%.

Evaluation of the Patient with Salivary Gland Cancer
Physical examination is the most important diagnostic tool.
Ultrasonography of the affected salivary glands has
a high sensitivity and is excellent to differentiate intrafrom extraglandular lesions.
CT scan or MRI may be useful for a surgical planning, especially in patients with larger tumors and those
arising in deep structures and/or involving them.
Fine needle aspiration is used for diagnosis and has
an accuracy from 87% to 96% (70). Open biopsy of parotid
or submandibular mass is not recommended because of
the risk of seeding. In the presence of small masses in
minor salivary glands (palate, tongue) a biopsy is preferable to direct excision, unless resection is possible with
adequate margins.
CT scan is useful in the presence of deep infiltrating
tumors, high-grade tumors with occult cervical metastases,
and in patients with minor salivary gland tumors. The
advantages of MRI include multiplanar imaging, elimination of dental artifacts, and the ability to distinguish
between a tumor and obstructed secretions.
A CT scan of the chest is useful for excluding the
presence of distant lung metastasis.

Treatment
Before treatment, a multidisciplinary team with a head and
neck surgeon, a radiotherapist, and a medical oncologist
should decide on the most optimal treatment plan for the
patient.

Distant metastasis (M)
• MX: Distant metastasis cannot be assessed
• M0: No distant metastasis
• M1: Distant metastasis
AJCC stage groupings
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III
Stage IVA
Stage IVB
Stage IVC

T1
T2
T3
T1-3
T4a
T1-4a
T4b
Any T
Any T

N0
N0
N0
N1
N0-1
N2
Any N
N3
Any N

M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M1

Source: From Ref. 14.

Surgery is the treatment of choice for resectable major
and minor salivary glands tumors.
A prophylactic neck dissection is not routinely
recommended since lymph node metastases occur in only
15% of patients. However, since lymph node metastases
occur more frequently in high-grade tumors or in tumors
larger than 4 cm, elective lymph node dissection of levels
I, II, and III and of levels II, III, IV, and V is recommended
for submaxillary-sublingual and parotid gland tumors,
respectively.
Primary radiotherapy may be used in patients with
unresectable disease or those who refuse surgery. Adjuvant
radiotherapy may be used in both major and minor salivary gland tumors in case of undifferentiated and highgrade tumors; in case of extensive nodal involvement; or

Chapter 7:

after capsular rupture. It is not indicated in patients with
adenoid cystic carcinoma.
Chemotherapy may be used for palliation. Response
rates to polychemotherapy vary widely due to the different
chemosensitivity of the different histotypes. The response
rate is 30% in recurrent and/or metastatic disease.
The most studied regimen is the combination of
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and cisplatin (CAP). Since
there are no randomized trials, it is not known whether
combination chemotherapy has any advantage over single
agent treatment (70). Therefore, a standard regimen is still
lacking.
In most patients with an indolent course, a conservative attitude should be strongly considered.
Based on the presence of several cellular targets a
number of targeted drugs have been employed. Results
obtained both with gefitinib, cetuximab, and lapatinib
are not impressive. No objective response was recorded,
although disease stabilizations (35% with lapatinib and
43% with cetuximab) lasting more than six months were
observed. These observations may depend on the behavior
of adenoid cystic carcinoma (histology mainly included in
the studies), for which a cytostatic activity of the drugs
themselves is difficult to prove.

REFERENCES
1. Vokes EE, Cohen EE, Grandis JR. Introduction: head and
neck cancer. Semin Oncol 2008; 35: 196–7.
2. Sant M, Aareleid T, Berrino F et al. EUROCARE-3: survival
of cancer patients diagnosed 1990-94--results and commentary. Ann Oncol 2003; 14(Suppl 5): v61–118.
3. Bosetti C, Bertuccio P, Levi F et al. Cancer mortality in the
European Union, 1970–2003, with a joinpoint analysis. Ann
Oncol 2008; 19: 631–40.
4. Decker J, Goldstein J. Current concepts in otolaryngology.
Risk factors in head and neck cancer. N Engl J Med 1982;
306: 1151–5.
5. Neville BW, Day TA. Oral cancer and precancerous lesions.
CA Cancer J Clin 2002; 52: 195–215.
6. Gleich LL, Salamone FN. Molecular genetics of head and neck
cancer. Cancer Control 2002; 9: 369–78.
7. Ragin CC, Modugno F, Gollin SM. The epidemiology and
risk factors of head and neck cancer: a focus on human
papillomavirus. J Dent Res 2007; 86: 104–14.
8. Hoory T, Monie A, Gravitt P et al. Molecular epidemiology
of human papillomavirus. J Formos Med Assoc 2008; 107:
198–217.
9. Steger G, Corbach S. Dose-dependent regulation of the early
promoter of human papillomavirus type 18 by the viral E2
protein. J Virol 1997; 71: 50–8.
10. Stanley MA, Pett MR, Coleman N. HPV: from infection to
cancer. Biochem Soc Trans 2007; 35: 1456–60.
11. Wiencke JK. DNA adduct burden and tobacco carcinogenesis.
Oncogene 2002; 21: 7376–91.
12. Arredondo J, Chernyavsky AI, Jolkovsky DL et al. Receptormediated tobacco toxicity: cooperation of the Ras/Raf-1/
MEK1/ERK and JAK-2/STAT-3 pathways downstream of
alpha7 nicotinic receptor in oral keratinocytes. FASEB J 2006;
20: 2093–101.
13. International Union against Cancer. In: Sobin LH, Wittekind
Ch, eds. TNM Classification of Malignant Tumors, 6th edn.
New York: Wiley-Liss, 2002.
14. American Joint Committee on Cancer. In: Greene FL, Page
DL, Fleming ID et al., eds. AJCC Cancer Staging Handbook,
6th edn. New York: Springer, 2002.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.
23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.
31.

32.

33.

34.

Head and Neck Cancer

139

Warnakulasuriya KA, Nanayakkara BG. Reproducibility of an
oral cancer and precancer detection program using a primary
health care model in Sri Lanka. Cancer Detect Prev 1991; 15:
331–4.
Ramadas K, Sankaranarayanan R, Jacob BJ et al. Interim
results from a cluster randomized controlled oral cancer
screening trial in Kerala, India. Oral Oncol 2003; 39: 580–8.
Prout MN, Sidari JN, Witzburg RA et al. Head and neck
cancer screening among 4611 tobacco users older than forty
years. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg 1997; 116: 201–8.
Abdo EN, Garrocho Ade A, Barbosa AA et al. Time elapsed
between the first symptoms, diagnosis and treatment of oral
cancer patients in Belo Horizonte, Brazil. Med Oral Patol Oral
Cir Bucal 2007; 12: 469–73.
British Columbia Oral Cancer Prevention Program, BC Cancer Agency; College of Dental Surgeons of British Columbia.
Guideline for the early detection of oral cancer in British
Columbia 2008. J Can Dent Assoc 2008; 74: 245.
Chen YW, Lin JS, Wu CH et al. Application of in vivo stain
of methylene blue as a diagnostic aid in the early detection
and screening of oral squamous cell carcinoma and precancer
lesions. J Chin Med Assoc 2007; 70: 497–503.
Dahlstrand H, Näsman A, Romanitan M et al. Human
papillomavirus accounts both for increased incidence and
better prognosis in tonsillar cancer. Anticancer Res 2008; 28:
1133–8.
Becker M. Diagnosis and staging of laryngeal tumors with
CT and MRI. Radiologe 1998; 38: 93–100.
Facey K, Bradbury I, Laking G et al. Overview of the clinical
effectiveness of positron emission tomography imaging in
selected cancers. Health Technol Assess 2007; 11: iii–iv, xi–267.
Knappe M, Louw M, Gregor RT. Ultrasonography-guided
fine-needle aspiration for the assessment of cervical metastases. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg 2000; 126: 1091–6.
Kyzas PA, Evangelou E, Denaxa-Kyza D et al. 18Ffluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography to evaluate cervical node metastases in patients with head and neck
squamous cell carcinoma: a meta-analysis. J Natl Cancer Inst
2008; 100: 712–20.
Dey P, Arnold D, Wight R et al. Radiotherapy versus open
surgery versus endolaryngeal surgery (with or without laser)
for early laryngeal squamous cell cancer. Cochrane Database
Syst Rev 2002; CD002027.
Cohen SM, Garrett CG, Dupont WD et al. Voice-related quality of life in T1 glottic cancer: irradiation versus endoscopic
excision. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol 2006; 115: 581–6.
Kane SV, Gupta M, Kakade AC et al. Depth of invasion is
the most significant histological predictor of subclinical cervical lymph node metastasis in early squamous carcinomas of
the oral cavity. Eur J Surg Oncol 2006; 32: 795–803.
Brazilian Head and Neck Cancer Study Group. End results
of a prospective trial on elective lateral neck dissection vs
type III modified radical neck dissection in the management
of supraglottic and transglottic carcinomas. Head Neck 1999;
21: 694–702.
Corvò R. Evidence-based radiation oncology in head and neck
squamous cell carcinoma. Radiother Oncol 2007; 85: 156–70.
Williams M, Denekamp J, Fowler J. A review of alpha/beta
ratios for experimental tumors: implications for clinical studies of altered fractionation. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1985;
11: 87–96.
Bourhis J, Overgaard J, Audry H et al. Hyperfractionated or
accelerated radiotherapy in head and neck cancer: a metaanalysis. Lancet 2006; 368: 843–54.
Lee NY, Le QT. New developments in radiation therapy for
head and neck cancer: intensity-modulated radiation therapy
and hypoxia targeting. Semin Oncol 2008; 35: 236–50.
Brizel DM. Pharmacologic approaches to radiation protection.
J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 4084–9.

140
35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

47.
48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
Goldie JH, Coldman AJ. A mathematic model for relating the
drug sensitivity of tumors to their spontaneous mutation rate.
Cancer Treat Rep 1979; 63: 1727–33.
Specenier PM, Vermorken JB. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy in
head and neck cancer: should it be revisited? Cancer Lett
2007; 256: 166–77.
Hitt R, López-Pousa A, Martínez-Trufero J et al. Phase III
study comparing cisplatin plus fluorouracil to paclitaxel, cisplatin, and fluorouracil induction chemotherapy followed by
chemoradiotherapy in locally advanced head and neck cancer. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 8636–45.
Vermorken JB, Remenar E, van Herpen C et al. Cisplatin,
fluorouracil, and docetaxel in unresectable head and neck
cancer. N Engl J Med 2007; 357: 1695–704.
Posner MR, Hershock DM, Blajman CR et al. Cisplatin and
fluorouracil alone or with docetaxel in head and neck cancer.
N Engl J Med 2007; 357: 1705–15.
Pignon JP, Bourhis J, Domenge C et al. Chemotherapy added
to locoregional treatment for head and neck squamous-cell
carcinoma: three meta-analyses of updated individual data.
MACH-NC Collaborative Group. Meta-Analysis of Chemotherapy on Head and Neck Cancer. Lancet 2000; 355: 949–55.
Merlano M. Alternating chemotherapy and radiotherapy
in locally advanced head and neck cancer: an alternative?
Oncologist 2006; 11: 146–51.
Bernier J, Vermorken JB, Koch WM. Adjuvant therapy in
patients with resected poor-risk head and neck cancer. J Clin
Oncol 2006; 24: 2629–35.
Seiwert TY, Haraf DJ, Cohen EE et al. Phase I study of
bevacizumab added to fluorouracil- and hydroxyurea-based
concomitant chemoradiotherapy for poor-prognosis head and
neck cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 1732–41.
Rischin D, Peters L, O’Sullivan B et al. Phase III study of
tirapazamine, cisplatin and radiation versus cisplatin and
radiation for advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head
and neck. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: S1010.
Valerie K, Yacoub A, Hagan MP et al. Radiation-induced cell
signaling: inside-out and outside-in. Mol Cancer Ther 2007;
6: 789–801.
Bonner JA, Harari PM, Giralt J et al. Radiotherapy plus cetuximab for squamous-cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
N Engl J Med 2006; 354: 567–78.
Shewach DS, Lawrence TS. Antimetabolite radiosensitizers.
J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 4043–50.
Langendijk JA, Bourhis J. Reirradiation in squamous cell head
and neck cancer: recent developments and future directions.
Curr Opin Oncol 2007; 19: 202–9.
Castro DJ, Sridhar KS, Garewal HS et al. Intratumoral cisplatin/epinephrine gel in advanced head and neck cancer: a
multicenter, randomized, double-blind, phase III study in
North America. Head Neck 2003; 25: 717–31.
Soulieres D, Senzer NN, Vokes EE et al. Multicenter phase II
study of erlotinib, an oral epidermal growth factor receptor
tyrosine kinase inhibitor, in patients with recurrent or metastatic squamous cell cancer of the head and neck. J Clin Oncol
2004; 22: 77–85.
Vermorken JB, Herbst RS, Leon X et al. Overview of the
efficacy of cetuximab in recurrent and/or metastatic squamous
cell carcinoma of the head and neck in patients who previously failed platinum-based therapies. Cancer 2008; 112:
2710–19.
Gibson MK, Li Y, Murphy B et al. Randomized phase III
evaluation of cisplatin plus fluorouracil versus cisplatin plus
paclitaxel in advanced head and neck cancer (E1395): an
intergroup trial of the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group.
J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 3562–7.

53.

54.

55.

56.
57.

58.
59.

60.

61.
62.

63.

64.

65.
66.
67.

68.
69.

70.
71.

72.
73.

Burtness B, Goldwasser MA, Flood W et al. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group. Phase III randomized trial of cisplatin plus placebo compared with cisplatin plus cetuximab
in metastatic/recurrent head and neck cancer: an Eastern
Cooperative Oncology Group study. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23:
8646–54.
Siu LL, Soulieres D, Chen EX et al. Phase I/II trial of erlotinib and cisplatin in patients with recurrent or metastatic
squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck: a Princess
Margaret Hospital phase II consortium and National Cancer
Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group Study. J Clin Oncol
2007; 25: 2178–83.
Kaanders JH, Hordijk GJ, Dutch Cooperative Head and Neck
Oncology Group. Carcinoma of the larynx: the Dutch national
guideline for diagnostics, treatment, supportive care and
rehabilitation. Radiother Oncol 2002; 63: 299–307.
Cheville AL. Cancer rehabilitation. Semin Oncol 2005; 32:
219–24.
Haughey BH, Gates GA, Arfken CL et al. Meta-analysis
of second malignant tumors in head and neck cancer: the
case for an endoscopic screening protocol. Ann Otol Rhinol
Laryngol 1992; 101: 105–12.
Khuri FR, Shin DM. Head and neck cancer chemoprevention
gets a shot in the arm. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 345–7.
de Visscher AV, Manni JJ. Routine long-term follow-up in
patients treated with curative intent for squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx, pharynx, and oral cavity. Does it make
sense? Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg 1994; 120: 934–9.
Tell R, Sjodin H, Lundell G et al. Hypothyroidism after external radiotherapy for head and neck cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol
Biol Phys 1997; 39: 303–8.
Licitra L, Bernier J, Bossi P et al. Cancer of nasopharynx.
www.startoncology.net
Barnes L, Eveson JW, Reichart P et al., eds. WHO classification of tumours. Pathology and Genetics of Head and Neck
Tumours. Lyon: IARC Press, 2005.
Baujat B, Audry H, Bourhis J et al. Chemotherapy as
an adjunct to radiotherapy in locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2006;
CD004329.
DeLellis R, Lloyd R, Heintz PU et al., eds. World Health
Organization. Classification of Tumours. Pathology and
Genetics. Tumours of Endocrine Organs. Lyon: IARC Press,
2004.
Sherman S. Thyroid carcinoma. Lancet 2003; 361: 501–11.
Bossi P, Locati L, Licitra L. Biological agents in head and
neck cancer. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther 2007; 7: 1643–50.
Pacini F, Schlumberger M, Dralle H et al. European consensus
for the management of patients with differentiated thyroid
carcinoma of the follicular epithelium. Eur J Endocrinol 2006;
154: 787–803.
Brown RL. Standard and emerging therapeutic approaches
for thyroid malignancies. Semin Oncol 2008; 35: 298–308.
Pudney D, Lau H, Ruether JD et al. Clinical experience of
the multimodality management of anaplastic thyroid cancer
and literature review. Thyroid 2007; 17: 1243–50.
Licitra L, Bruzzi P, Bernier J et al. Major and minor salivary
glands tumors. http//www.startoncology.net
Seifert G, Sobin LH. The World Health Organization’s
Histological Classification of Salivary Gland Tumors. A commentary on the second edition. Cancer 1992; 70: 379–85.
Spiro RH, Huvos AG. Stage means more than grade in
adenoid cystic carcinoma. Am J Surg 1992; 164: 623–8.
Vermorken JB, Mesia R, Rivera F, et al. Platinum-based
chemotherapy plus cetuximab in head and neck cancer.
N Engl J Med 2008; 359: 1116–27.

8
1
Primary Malignant Tumors of the Lung and Pleura
Heine H. Hansen and Helle Pappot

seems to occur later in southern and eastern Europe
(Fig. 8.1), most probably as a result of more recent changes
in smoking habits among women in the latter countries (6).
Among women, the peak in incidence was not reached in
the 1990s. If this pattern continues, a dramatic increase is
to be expected among women in southern and eastern
Europe and in other parts of the world, such as countries
in Asia, North Africa, and South America within the next
two decades. In addition, the proportion of adenocarcinoma has been increasing over time and is expected to
continue rising—the most likely explanation being the shift
to low-tar filter cigarettes, which allow deep inhalations of
the smoke into the periphery of the lung. A second complementary hypothesis suggests that smoking low-tar cigarettes may increase the risk for adenocarcinoma because of
the higher nitrate content of these cigarettes. In contrast,
the incidence of more centrally located histological tumor
types (squamous cell carcinoma and small cell carcinoma)
is decreasing.

The continuous increase in the incidence of lung cancer,
which is now the most frequent cancer type in men in most
European countries and rapidly increasing in women, makes
the understanding of the etiology, prevention, and treatment of this disease more important than ever. Although
the key etiological factor, smoking with its many carcinogens, has been known for years, the long lag between
exposure and the clinical symptoms of the tumor has hampered the initiation of preventive programs in this disease.
In addition, reducing tobacco consumption has major economic and political ramifications. In spite of the increasing
knowledge of the biology of the disease and the development of new active cytostatic drugs and targeted therapies
against lung cancer, the long-term survival rate remains
low, implying that the treatment of lung cancer will continue to be a major therapeutic challenge for many years
to come. Data from the Eurocare database imply that there
are fairly large variations in survival within Europe, and
that despite improvements in both the diagnosis and treatment, the overall prognosis for patients with nonsmall cell
lung cancer (NSCLC) has hardly improved over time. In
contrast, the introduction and improvement of chemotherapy since the 1970s have given rise to an improvement in
survival in small cell lung cancer (SCLC) (1). In the most
recent update of the Eurocare study, including data from
83 cancer registries on 2.7 million cancer patients, the fiveyear survival for all lung cancer patients has increased
from 9.2% in 1990–1994 to 10.2% in 1995–1999 (2) and
10.9% in 2000–2002 (3).

Risk Factors and Prevention
It is well established that the dominant risk factor for lung
cancer is cigarette smoking, causing 90% of all lung cancers
in the developed world. It is estimated that giving up
smoking at 60 years of age reduces the lifetime risk of lung
cancer by 40%, giving up at 50, 40, and 30 years of age
reduces the risk by 60%, 80%, and 90%, respectively. The
risk increases with the number of cigarettes smoked daily,
the duration of smoking, young age at onset of smoking,
degree of inhalation, the tar and nicotine content, and the
use of unfiltered cigarettes. Also other types of smoking,
including passive smoking, and occupational exposures to
carcinogenic agents such as asbestos fibers, arsenic compounds, alkylating agents, chromium compounds, mustard
gas, nickel compounds, ionizing radiation, soots, tars, and
some mineral oils, are associated with the risk of developing lung cancer. A multiplicative, synergistic interaction
has been observed for asbestos, ionizing radiation, and
arsenic compounds in combination with tobacco smoking,
in such a way that the combined exposure is associated
with a lung cancer risk that far exceeds that expected from
the separate exposure to each of the agents. In many
European countries, the risk of pleural mesothelioma will
continue to increase among males and also among women
but at a much lower level. The delayed period effect of the
asbestos regulation by the late 1970s in many countries will
probably have its greatest effects in the mesothelioma rates
around 2010.

EPIDEMIOLOGY AND ETIOLOGY
Incidence and Mortality
The incidence of lung cancer has increased rapidly during
the last four decades and lung cancer is now the most
common cancer in the world according to the most recent
studies. It has been estimated that approximately 1.35 million throughout the world were diagnosed with lung cancer in year 2002, corresponding to 18% of all cancers in the
more developed regions of the world and 16% in the rest
of the world (4). The estimated number of lung cancer
deaths in 2003 was 1.18 million—more than for any other
type of cancer (5). The frequency seems to be leveling off
in men in some countries but it continues to rise in other
countries and in women. The mortality trends for men and
for women vary considerably in the world, including the
European countries; the trend since the 1980s of a decreasing incidence of lung cancer among men and an increasing
incidence among women observed in northern Europe
141

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

60

Northern and Western
Eastern

40
Mediterranean
20
Males

Mortality rate per 100,000

Mortality rate per 100,000

142

15
Northern and Western
10
Eastern
5

Mediterranean
Females

0

0
1950

1960

1970 1980
Year

1990

2000

1950

As the association between certain definite factors,
as mentioned above, and lung cancer is well established,
prevention by eliminating risk factors seems obvious, and,
fortunately, preventive activities are being established in
many countries and recently also with increasing, but modest, governmental support. However, there is still a major
need for public information, especially for young people,
about this manmade disease that was almost unknown
about a century ago.

EARLY DETECTION AND SCREENING
The major problem in the treatment of lung cancer has been
that patients at the time of exhibiting symptoms, and thus
diagnosis, usually have had advanced stage disease. This
has encouraged researchers to set up screening programs
to detect the disease in more localized stages. Screening
programs using chest radiographs and sputum cytology
have been disappointing, as these tests not were able to
decrease mortality from lung cancer (7). New technology
have since emerged giving hope to better screening modalities, and recent studies using spiral CT screening in combination with sputum cytology seem to detect more early
stage lung cancers than previous screening tools. It is still
controversial whether spiral CT screening can decrease
lung cancer mortality (8,9) and a number of randomized
studies are ongoing in the United States, Europe, and Japan
with data on disease-specific mortality (10). Apart from
imaging, also molecular markers are being investigated as
screening tools. Especially in high-risk populations, lung
cancer molecular diagnostics, including chemoprevention,
could become an important part of future screening methodologies (11). When the best screening tool has been
identified, other issues remain to be elucidated, such as
health-economic calculations and identification of the optimal screening population, before screening programs can
become part of the healthcare standard prevention program,
such as screening for breast cancer and cervical cancer.

1960

1970 1980
Year

1990

2000

Figure 8.1 Estimated incidence
and mortality of cancer of the lung.
Source: From Ref. 6.

probably is also responsible for the development of lung
tumors, expressing various phenotypes. If DNA damage
occurs in the lung epithelium, for example, as a result of
carcinogens, it is of great importance that repair takes place
in order to avoid malignant transformation of the cell. It
is conceivable that certain individuals may be genetically
predisposed to lung cancer, for example, by the manner in
which DNA damage is repaired and carcinogens are activated or inactivated. There is increasing evidence to indicate that many cancers arise via a multistep process in
which multiple genetic alterations occur affecting the control of cell differentiation, cell division, and growth. Examples of such genetic alterations in lung cancers are loss of
chromosomal material, for example, deletion of material
from chromosome region 3p21; mutations of tumor-suppressor genes, such as p53, and mutations or changes in
the levels of expression of proto-oncogenes, for example,
RAS, NEU, JUN, MYC, and c-ERB-B2 (12). The frequency
of genetic alterations differs among the various types of
lung cancer, and these changes are most likely not only
important for tumorigenesis but also for tumor growth and
spread. Other processes seem to be activated by for example, p53 mutations, which influence apoptosis, induce
insensitivity to antigrowth signals, and leads to genomic
instability predisposing to other alterations. In addition,
considerable “crosstalk” between components of the different systems mentioned above, is observed (12). The prognostic impact of some of these genetic factors has been
studied clinically by genomic and proteomic assays, showing prognostic impact in subgroups of operated NSCLC.
However, these findings have not been used clinically.
It has been demonstrated that molecular markers (13) may
predict patient benefit from chemotherapy (ERCC1, RRM1,
p27(kip1), p53 expression) or targeted therapy (different
EGFr forms). Direct genetic therapy as an approach in lung
cancer therapy still seems difficult, as it is well established
that not only lung cancer, but malignant diseases in general
arise after numerous molecular changes, many of which
are interrelated.

LUNG CANCER BIOLOGY AND ITS APPLICATION
TO CLINICAL PRACTICE
Histogenesis, DNA Damage, and Genetic Alterations

Growth Factors, Angiogenesis,
and Proteolytic Enzymes

All normal cells in the tracheobronchial tree originate from
differentiation of an epithelial pluripotent stem cell, which

A number of peptides have been identified in human lung
cancer cell lines. Insulin-like growth factor (IGF), epidermal

Chapter 8:

growth factor (EGF), vascular epidermal growth factor
(VEGF), and transforming growth factor (TGF) are examples
of growth factors acting in lung cancer by binding to specific receptors, and thereby influencing both tumor growth
and angiogenesis. Experimental in vitro studies have shown
that blocking of the receptors EGFr and VEGFr inhibit the
growth of lung cancer cell lines, and drugs acting directly
against the receptors, as antibodies, or inhibiting the receptor tyrosine kinase have been developed. These compounds
have been tested in clinical trials, and have in combination
with chemotherapy shown poorer results than expected,
probably because of antagonism (14).
Also several enzymes and peptide hormones are produced and released by lung cancer cells. A great number
of these substances are consistently produced by SCLCs
and less often by the other major histological types. With
regard to the expression of genetic alterations and growth
factors there is considerable overlap of properties supporting the concept of a common origin for all lung cancers,
but differing with respect to biological qualities. SCLCs are
particularly well known for the ectopic production of hormones. Serum from such patients often shows elevated
levels of, for example, hormones such as calcitonin, adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH), antidiuretic hormone,
and neuron-specific enolase (NSE), oxytocin resulting in
various paraneoplastic syndromes see later. In SCLC cell
lines drugs inhibiting the proteasome, farnesyltransferase,
and Bcl2 have been tested and are now moving into clinical studies (15).

HISTOPATHOLOGY OF MALIGNANT TUMORS
OF THE LUNG AND PLEURA
As mentioned, bronchogenic carcinoma apparently originates as a single malignant clone, but rapid cell proliferation and mutations result in the creation of heterogeneous
tumors with many subpopulations. This heterogeneity is
microscopically reflected by the presence of various histological types, indicating differentiation in more than one
direction, even in the same patient.
More than 95% of bronchial tumors can be classified into four major cell types: squamous cell carcinoma
(WHO I), small cell carcinoma (WHO II), adenocarcinoma
(WHO III), and large cell carcinoma (WHO IV) (Table 8.1).
The remaining 5% include mesotheliomas and carcinoids.
Table 8.1 shows the most recent classification published by
the WHO in collaboration with the International Academy
of Pathology and International Association for the Study
of Lung Cancer (IASLC) and it shows the morphologic
codes of the International Classification for Oncology and
the systematized Nomenclature of Medicine (16). The relative frequency of each type varies among different series
and different countries. This variation may not only be
based on geographical differences, but may also reflect
variations in the histopathological classification applied.
The frequency of small cell carcinoma seems rather constant
(15–25%), whereas the variations in frequency for WHO I,
III, and IV are somewhat greater with a steady increase in
adenocarcinoma over the last two decades. For practical
and therapeutic purposes the last three types are commonly
referred to as NSCLC. The diagnosis of lung cancer is usually carried out on the basis of histopathological biopsy

Primary Malignant Tumors of the Lung and Pleura

143

material obtained at bronchoscopy, mediastinoscopy, lung
biopsy, and the like. In some cases it may be difficult to
obtain material for histopathological evaluation and the
diagnosis is then based on the less precise cytological material. The WHO classification is based on light microscopic
criteria using common staining procedures. Results of electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry are usually
not included as diagnostic criteria in the classification, but
they may in some cases clarify the diagnosis.
Squamous cell carcinoma is associated with squamous
metaplasia and carcinoma in situ in its earliest form and
with further growth the tumor invades the basement
membrane and extends into the bronchial lumen. The
tumor is histologically composed of sheets of epithelial
cells being well or poorly differentiated with the most
well-differentiated cells demonstrating keratin pearls,
whereas the more poorly differentiated ones have positive
keratin staining.
Small cell carcinoma is characterized by diffuse
growth or solid nests of small cells with oval to spindle
nuclei, finely granular nuclei, inconspicuous nucleoli, thin
nuclear membrane, scanty faintly stained, or very finely
granular and ill-defined cell borders. Cancer cells are
smaller than lymphocytes. Mitotic figures are frequently
seen, often 60 to 70 per high power field. A variant combined small cell carcinoma is defined as small cell carcinoma combined with nonsmall cell elements, such as
adenocarcinoma, squamous cell- or large cell carcinoma.
Using immunohistochemistry SCLCs can often be distinguished from NSCLCs by a more frequent expression of
neuroendocrine differentiation markers, such as, for example, NSE, chromogranin, and the like. The presence of these
markers is, however, not diagnostic for SCLCs.
Adenocarcinomas form glands and produce mucin.
Within adenocarcinomas, bronchoalveolar carcinoma is
pathologically different, showing growth along alveolar
septa and little if any desmoplastic or glandular change.
Adenocarcinomas may stain positively for carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and keratin.
Large cell carcinoma is the less frequent type of lung
cancer (<15%); large cell, undifferentiated carcinomas usually have sheets of highly atypical cells with focal necrosis
without keratinization or gland formation, and, occasionally the presence of multinucleated “giant cells.”
Carcinoid tumors, which are seen more rarely, are
believed to arise from enterochromaffin cells and are able
to secrete a variety of components. Histologically, it is
difficult to distinguish between benign and malignant
tumors. The tumors are composed of monotonous sheets
of small, round cells with uniform nuclei and cytoplasm.
Another rare tumor is mesothelioma, which arises from
pleura. There are three histological variants, the epithelial
form characterized by tubular, papillary, solid, or vacuolated cells is the most frequently occurring type (60%),
whereas the sarcomatoid and mixed forms are less
common.
The histopathological classification constitutes a significant, independent prognostic factor, with a relatively
better prognosis being obtained for squamous cell carcinoma. Among the adenocarcinomas, the bronchioloalveolar carcinoma has a better prognosis than the other subtypes
with special biologic features (17), and for both squamous
cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma the outcome for the

144

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 8.1

Histological Classification of Lung and Pleural Tumors

1 Epithelial tumors
1.3 Malignant
1.3.1 Squamous cell carcinoma Variants
1.3.1.1 Papillary
1.3.1.2 Clear cell
1.3.1.3 Small cell
1.3.1.4 Basaloid
1.3.2 Small cell carcinoma Variant
1.3.2.1 Combined
1.3.3 Adenocarcinoma
1.3.3.1 Acinar
1.3.3.2 Papillary
1.3.3.3 Bronchioloalveolar carcinoma
1.3.3.3.1 Nonmucinous
1.3.3.3.2 Mucinous
1.3.3.3.3 Mixed mucinous and nonmucinous or indeterminate cell type
1.3.3.4 Solid adenocarcinoma with mucin
1.3.3.5 Adenocarcinoma with mixed subtypes
1.3.3.6 Variants
1.3.3.6.1 Well-differentiated fetal adenocarcinoma
1.3.3.6.2 Mucinous (“colloid”) adenocarcinoma
1.3.3.6.3 Mucinous cystadenocarcinom
1.3.3.6.4 Signet-ring adenocarcinoma
1.3.3.6.5 Clear cell adenocarcinoma
1.3.4 Large cell carcinoma Variants
1.3.4.1 Large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma
1.3.4.1.1 Combined large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma
1.3.4.2 Basaloid carcinoma
1.3.4.3 Lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma
1.3.4.4 Clear cell carcinoma
1.3.4.5 Large cell carcinoma with rhabdoid phenotype
1.3.5 Adenosquamous carcinoma
1.3.6 Carcinomas with pleomorphic, sarcomatoid, or sarcomatous elements
1.3.6.1 Carcinomas with spindle and/or giant cells
1.3.6.1.1 Pleomorphic carcinoma
1.3.6.1.2 Spindle cell carcinoma
1.3.6.1.3 Giant cell carcinoma
1.3.6.2 Carcinosarcoma
1.3.6.3 Pulmonary blastoma
1.3.6.4 Others
1.3.7 Carcinoid tumor
1.3.7.1 Typical carcinoid
1.3.7.2 Atypical carcinois
1.3.8 Carcinomas of salivary gland type
1.3.8.1 Mucoepidermoid carcinoma
1.3.8.2 Adenoid cystic carcinoma
1.3.8.3 Others
1.3.9 Unclassified carcinoma

well-differentiated tumors is better than for the poorly differentiated tumors.

CLINICAL PRESENTATIONS AND SYMPTOMS
Locoregional and Metastatic Manifestations
The signs and symptoms manifested by the lung cancer
patient depend on the location of the tumor, its locoregional
spread, the effect of metastatic growth, and possibly paraneoplastic syndromes, which are more frequent in lung
cancer than in any other type of cancer. Ten to fifteen per
cent of lung cancers are detected incidentally in the asymptomatic state on a chest radiograph, including screening.
These tumors are usually small and therefore associated

with a higher rate of resectability and a better five-year
survival rate than symptomatic tumors.
The most frequently presenting signs and symptoms
for NSCLC and SCLC patients are given in Table 8.2 (18).
The local symptoms include cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea,
and chest pain, with the development of cough or a change
in the character of a preexisting cough being the most
common symptom. Dyspnea is a frequent symptom, which
may be caused by pleural effusion, diaphragmatic paralysis resulting from phrenic nerve involvement, obstructive
pneumonitis or lymphangitic metastases. In addition, lung
cancer patients often have coexistent chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease that contributes to their dyspnea. Chest
pain may be present in patients with tumors invading the

Chapter 8:

Primary Malignant Tumors of the Lung and Pleura

Table 8.2 Presenting Signs and Symptoms in 1024 Patients with
Lung Cancer (Based on Data from Ref. 18)

Table 8.3
Carcinoma

Symptoms

Endocrine
Cushing’s syndrome
Inappropriate ADH secretion
Hypercalcemia
Carcinoid syndrome
Gynecomastia
Hyperglycemia
Hypoglycemia
Galactorrhea
Growth hormone excess
Secretion of thyroid-stimulating
hormone
Calcitonin secretion
Neuromuscular
Polymyositis
Myasthenic syndrome
Sensorimotor neuropathy
Encephalopathy
Myelopathy
Psychosis
Dementia
Cardiovascular
Superficial thrombophlebitis
Arterial thrombosis
Marantic endocarditis

Cough
Dyspnea
Hemoptysis
Chest pain
Anorexia
Fatigue
Weight loss (>10% body weight)
Wheeze
Bone pain
Hoarseness
Dysphagia
Asymptomatic

Percentage of patients with
NSCLC

SCLC

45
37
33
27
22
22
16
10
10
7
3
15

49
53
30
48
37
37
21
23
13
21
9
5

pleura or chest wall. Hoarseness and dysphagia can occur
as results of vocal cord paralysis by pressure on the left
recurrent laryngeal nerve in the mediastinum, and through
compression of the esophagus by mediastinal lymphadenopathy or direct invasion of primary tumor in esophagus,
respectively. Anorexia, fatigue, and weight loss are less specific but frequently occurring symptoms, often associated
with metastatic spread. Two frequent clinical syndromes
associated with lung cancer are related to the local effects
of the tumor: superior vena cava syndrome (SVCS) and
Pancoast’s syndrome (or superior sulcus tumors). The
SVCS consists of edema of the face and upper extremities,
along with dilated superficial veins in the neck, arms, and
thorax. This is most frequently observed in SCLC and it
may be caused either by direct invasion of the superior
vena cava or by compression from mediastinal metastases.
Pancoast’s syndrome is caused by a tumor in the apex
of the lung, which may also involve the first and second
ribs, vertebral column, spinal cord, and brachial plexus.
As a result of involvement of the cervical sympathetic
nerves, Horner’s syndrome may also be present in patients
with Pancoast’s syndrome. Pancoast’s tumors are often
squamous cell carcinomas and adenocarcinomas, rarely,
small cell carcinoma.
Frequently, evidence of extrathoracic metastases is
seen at the time of diagnosis. Lymph node enlargement in
the supraclavicular and cervical regions may be initial findings. Bone pain is also a common presenting symptom,
caused by osseous metastases. The spine, pelvis, femur,
ribs, and skull are the most frequently involved regions,
but any bone may be affected. If hepatomegaly occurs as
a presenting symptom it is most likely that the patient has
SCLC. In 10–15% of lung cancer patients, evidence of
metastases to the central nervous system is the initial manifestation, including cerebral and cerebellar metastases,
again mostly observed in SCLC.

Paraneoplastic Syndromes
Paraneoplastic syndromes are often specific entities caused
by remote, nonmetastatic effects of the tumor. They may
be present in 10–20% of all lung cancer patients (Table 8.3)
and are most commonly observed in SCLC.

145

Paraneoplastic Syndromes Associated with Bronchogenic

Musculoskeletal and cutaneous
Hypertrophic osteoarthropathy
Clubbing
Dermatomyositis
Acanthosis nigricans
Pruritus
Urticaria
Erythema multiforme
Hyperpigmentation
Hematological
Hemolytic anemia
Red cell aplasia
Polycythemia
Thrombocytosis
Eosinophilia
Leukoerythroblastic reaction
including thrombocytopenia
Others
Nephrotic syndrome
Hyperuricemia
Amyloidosis

Ectopic ACTH production may produce Cushing’s
syndrome, while inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic
hormone (the Eaton–Lambert syndrome) may cause severe
hyponatremia. Hypercalcemia is usually caused by osseous
metastases or by ectopic secretion of parathyroid-like hormone, an osteolytic substance or prostaglandin; hypercalcemia is often observed in NSCLC and rarely in SCLC in
spite of the high frequency of bone marrow metastases in
SCLC. Less frequent endocrine syndromes include carcinoid syndrome, gynecomastia, and hypoglycemia.
A neurological paraneoplastic syndrome associated
with SCLC is the myasthenic syndrome (Eaton–Lambert
syndrome). Rarely, ataxia caused by cerebellar degeneration or cerebral atrophy may be a presenting symptom.
Several musculoskeletal and cutaneous manifestations are also occasionally seen, including digital clubbing,
hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy, polymyositis,
acanthosis nigricans, and dermatomyositis.
The most common hematological abnormalities
include anemia of chronic disease, whereas thrombocytopenia is often a sign of bone marrow metastases in SCLC.

DIAGNOSIS AND STAGING OF LUNG CANCER
Detection of Primary Tumor and Locoregional Spread
To verify a suspicion of lung cancer a chest radiograph is
generally the first procedure following the clinical examination. Tumors must be at least 1 cm in greatest diameter
to be detectable by chest radiography. A chest radiograph
is best at detecting peripherally located cancers, which are
most likely to be large cell carcinomas and adenocarcinomas, whereas centrally located or hilar lesions are more
likely to be small cell carcinomas or squamous cell carcinomas. Chest radiography also allows evaluation of the

146

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

anatomical extent of the tumor, including mediastinal
metastases, chest wall involvement, metastases to the ribs,
tracheal compression, pleural effusion, and atelectasis,
whereas computed tomography (CT) is especially valuable
in defining more accurately multiple nodules, multiple
intrapulmonary lesions, mediastinal lymphadenopathy, and
chest wall or mediastinal invasion. More recently, endobronchial ultrasonography (EBUS) with transbronchial
needle aspiration and, especially, 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose
(FDG) positron emission tomography (18FDG-PET) with
or without a CT have emerged as important procedures in
the workup of patients with (suspected) lung cancer. This
is so especially in the evaluation of the mediastinum,
including lymph node involvement (19) and the procedure
is now recommended by the European Society of Thoracic
Surgeons, American College of Chest Physicians, and
European Society of Medical Oncology (20–22).
Also in the evaluation of mediastinal response,
PET-CT evaluation is superior to repeat mediastinoscopy
with sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of PET-CT being
77%, 92%, and 83%, respectively, whereas those for repeat
mediastinoscopy were 29%, 100%, and 60%, respectively.
Sensitivity (p < 0.0001) and accuracy (p = 0.012) were
thus significantly better for PET-CT compared with
mediastinoscopy (23).
When a tumor has been visualized on a chest radiograph or by CT, a biopsy is essential for obtaining the right
diagnosis. The introduction of the flexible fiber optic bronchoscope has enabled the diagnosis of lung cancer to be
made by a procedure that albeit invasive, is fast, safe, and
performed under local anesthesia. Using the flexible scope
the endobronchial distance that may be visualized has been
extended to include third and fourth order bronchi. If lung
lesions are visible, the rate of positive diagnoses from bronchial brushings and biopsy is up to 90%, the success rate
depending on the size of the tumor. Small cell carcinoma
has a tendency to cause submucosal invasion, so a deep
biopsy should be performed, and this is also necessary in
areas with swollen mucosa without visible tumor.
To obtain material from intrapulmonary lesions and
mediastinal lymph nodes, transbronchial biopsy aspiration,
sometimes ultrasound guided, should be carried out using
special needles. If diagnostic material cannot be obtained
by bronchoscopy, other procedures should be applied,
such as transthoracic needle aspiration or thoracoscopy
with biopsy, or thoracocentesis if pleural effusion is present. Mediastinoscopy or mediastinotomy are important
techniques to assess superior mediastinal lymph nodes;
more recently developed methods include video-assisted
thoracoscopy. In selected cases thoracotomy may be needed
before the diagnosis of lung cancer can be established.

Detection of Distant Metastases
Systemic manifestations of lung cancer are present in more
than 50% of cases at diagnosis, so once the diagnosis of
lung cancer is made, and before therapy is chosen, an
evaluation of the extent of the disease is required. Most
patients undergo chest radiography, CT of the chest and
abdomen, and/or ultrasonography to detect mediastinal
lymph node enlargement or unsuspected pulmonary, liver,
or adrenal metastases. As metastases to liver, bone, and
brain are the most frequent distant metastatic sites in lung

cancer, with varying frequency dependent on histological
types, procedures to detect these metastases are usually
applied in lung cancer patients.
Biochemical variables, such as transaminases, bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, and coagulation factors are used
to detect liver (and bone) metastases, but the specificity of
these is low, and other noninvasive diagnostic imaging
procedures may be more helpful. Liver metastases can be
detected with either ultrasonography with biopsy or CT,
with the last having a greater potential of revealing abnormalities located in the adrenals, pancreatic region, and
retroperitoneal lymph nodes.
When lung cancer affects the bones, two organs may
be involved: the bone marrow or the osseus tissue, clinically characterized by either hemopoietic changes such as
thrombocytopenia and/or bone pain. The bone marrow
can often be evaluated by aspiration and biopsy from the
iliac crest—routine procedures in small cell carcinoma.
Bone radiography is too insensitive to be used for screening, but may be relevant when specific bone pain is present. Bone scans are rarely used anymore, but have been
replaced by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as the best
procedure to detect malignant bone lesions.
Central nervous system (CNS) metastases can often
be revealed by a thorough clinical neurological examination, lumbar puncture with cytological evaluation of the
cerebrospinal fluid and supplemented by myelography,
CT, and MRI, depending on the clinical signs and symptoms. The recommended routine staging investigations are
depicted in Table 8.4.

Staging Systems
The TNM classification is the most commonly used staging
system: T indicates the localization and size of the primary
tumor including possible local invasion; N is the degree of
nodal involvement; and M is the presence of distant metastases (24). The TNM descriptors are outlined in Table 8.5.
Applying the TNM classification, patients with lung cancer
can be staged into various groups, as indicated in Table 8.5;
the stages can be subdivided into five categories depending
on the origin of the information on which the staging is
performed. Clinical diagnostic staging (cTNM), permits the
incorporation of information from all investigations performed before treatment; surgical evaluative staging (sTNM),
is based on information from thoracotomy; pathological staging (pTNM), is possible if resection is undertaken and a
detailed histological assessment is available, whereas retreatment staging (rTNM), may include additional investigations
obtained if further treatment has become necessary. Autopsy
staging (aTNM), is based on postmortem findings. The lung
cancer stages include: occult carcinoma, Stage 0, Stage I,
Stage II, Stage IIIa and b, and Stage IV defined according
to the latest revision of the International System for Staging
of Lung Cancer (24,25):
• Occult stage: TXN0M0. An occult carcinoma with bronchopulmonary secretions containing malignant cells but
without other evidence of tumor, metastases to the
regional lymph nodes or distant metastases.
• Stage 0: TisN0M0. Carcinoma in situ.
• Stage I: T1N0M0, T2N0M0. A tumor that can be classified
as T1 with no metastases, or T2 without any metastases

Chapter 8:

Table 8.4 Recommended Staging Procedures for Patients with
Lung Cancer—Clinical Practice
Procedure

General procedures
Patient history
Physical examination
Blood counts
Serum biochemistry
Cytological or histological documentation
Procedures for local disease
Chest radiograph
Chest computed tomography
Fiber bronchoscopy
Mediastinoscopy
Endoesophageal ultrasound (EUS)
Endobronchial ultrasonography (EBUS)
Positron emission tomography (PET)
18-FDG-PET
Cytology of effusion
Cytology of supraclavicular node
Procedures for distant disease
Bone
Bone scan
Bone radiographs
MR scan
Liver and retroperitoneal organs
Ultrasonography or abdominal
computed tomography with
fine-needle aspiration/biopsy
Bone marrow: aspirate and biopsy
Brain: computed tomography or MR-scan

Primary Malignant Tumors of the Lung and Pleura

Table 8.5

Local treatment modality
under consideration
No

Yes

+

+

+

+

+

+

+
–
–
–

+
+
+
+a

–

+a

–
–
–

+a
+
+b

–
–
–

+e
+c,e
+c,e

–

+e

–
–

+d
+f

147

Stage Grouping of TNM Subsetsa

Stage

TNM Subset

0
IA
IB
IIA
IIB

Carcinoma in situ
T1N0M0
T2N0M0
T1N1M0
T2N1M0
T3N0M0
T3N1M0
T1N2M0
T2N2M0
T3N2M0
T4N0M0
T4N1M0
T4N2M0
T1N3M0
T2N3M0
T3N3M0
T4N3M0
Any T Any N M1

IIIA

IIIB

IV
a

Staging is not relevant for occult carcinoma, designated TXN0M0

Stage I
No lymph node involvement
T2N0M0
Involving mainstem
bronchus > 2 cm
distal to carina

T1N0M0
Peripheral
coin lesion

a

Only if needed by surgeon for preoperative work-up.
If the findings are doubtful and the establishment of a positive finding affects
the treatment.
c
Only of areas of increased uptake on bone scan.
d
Only in small cell carcinoma.
e
Only if either serum biochemistry is abnormal or patient has clinical symptoms.
f
Only if clinical symptoms are present.
b

•

•

•

•

•

to nodes or distant organs. TXN1M0 is theoretically possible but clinically difficult to make. If such a diagnosis
occurs, it would be included in this stage (Fig. 8.2).
Stage IIa: T1N1M0. A tumor classified as T1 with metastases to the lymph nodes in the peribronchial ipsilateral
hilar region only (Fig. 8.3).
Stage IIb: T2N1M0, T3N0M0. A tumor classified as either
T2 or T3 with metastases to the lymph nodes in the
peribronchial or ipsilateral hilar region only (Fig. 8.4).
Stage IIIa: T3N1M0, T1N2M0, T2N2M0, T3N2M0. Any
tumor with ipsilateral mediastinal lymph nodes only or
T3 tumor without contralateral mediastinal, scalene,
supraclavicular or distant metastases (Fig. 8.5).
Stage IIIb: T4N0M0, T4N1M0, T4N2M0, T1N3M0,
T2N3M0, T3N3M0, T4N3M0. Any tumor with contralateral, mediastinal, scalene, or supraclavicular lymph
nodes or any T4 tumor without spread beyond the
thorax (Fig. 8.6)
Stage IV: Any tumor with distant metastases.

Mediastinal
parietal
pleura
T2N0M0
Involving
visceral pleura

Figure 8.2

Stage I disease. Source: From Ref. 74.

The TNM subsets and the stage grouping are outlined in Table 8.5. The staging of lung cancer by the TNM
staging system is also referred to as the New International
Staging System (ISS) because American, Japanese, and
European cancer committees have agreed in 1986 on this
worldwide staging system, and it is now used extensively.
The most recent revision took place in 1997 (24) and was
based on a relatively small surgically treated cohort of
5319 patients treated in the United States. Therefore, the
International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer

148

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Stage IIA
Intrapulmonary and/or hilar nodes involved
Tumor <3 cm

Stage IIIA
T3N1M0
Peripheral tumor
involving chest wall
and intrapulmonary
lymph nodes

T2N2M0
>3 cm tumor
involving ipsilateral
hilar and
mediastinal
lymph nodes

Mediastinal
parietal
pleura

T1N1M0
<3 cm involving
ipsilateral peribronchial and/or
ipsilateral hilar lymph nodes

Figure 8.5
Figure 8.3

Stage IIIA disease.

Stage IIA disease.

Stage IIIB
T4N3M0
Involvement of
mediastinum,
(ipsilateral and)
contralateral
mediastinal lymph
nodes, contralateral
hilar nodes,
supraclavicular
lymph nodes

Stage IIB
Intrapulmonary and/or hilar nodes involved
Tumor >3 cm
T2N1M0 or T3N0M0
Involving visceral pleura
and peribronchial and
hilar lymph nodes

Involving main
bronchus
and hilar
lymph nodes

Mediastinal
parietal
pleura

Figure 8.6

Mediastinal
parietal
pleura

Figure 8.4

Stage IIB.

(IASLC) has initiated a global (including entries from
Europe, North America, Asia, and Australia) retrospective
dataset covering patients treated for primary lung cancer
from 1990 to 2000. Recent reports of the IASLC Lung Cancer Staging Project provide proposals of the TNM descriptors in the seventh edition of the TNM classification
system. This TNM staging system is scheduled to be pub-

Stage IIIB disease. Source: From Ref. 74.

lished after approval by the UICC and AJCC in 2009.
Unlike the current sixth edition of the TNM classification,
which was internally validated only, data in the IASLC
database were subjected to internal validation using a
larger data set and external validation using the Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results Cancer Registry. The
IASLC project has been summarized recently, including
presentation of the new proposed staging system (24).
The lung cancer stages are quite accurate in predicting
overall survival in lung cancer patients (Fig. 8.7), and
despite the emergence of biochemical and genetic markers
as prognostic indicators, stage together with histological
type is still the strongest predictive parameter.

Chapter 8:

100

Cumulative proportion surviving (%)

p < 0.001
80

60

Stage I
(n = 1533)

40

Stage II
(n = 169)
Stage IIIA
(n = 261)

20

Stage IIIB (n = 543)
Stage IV (n = 635)

0
0

12

24

36

48

60

Months following treatment

Figure 8.7 Cumulative proportion of patients surviving five years by
clinical stage of disease (1986 classification). Source: From Ref. 74.

TREATMENT
The management of lung cancer should primarily be based
on the histopathological type, secondarily on the stage.
NSCLC represents one treatment group and SCLC another.
Accordingly, the treatment will be described separately.
Less common lung tumors include neuroendocrine tumors
including carcinoids and pleural malignancies, such as
mesothelioma.

Nonsmall Cell Lung Cancer
Surgery
The primary curative treatment for NSCLC is surgery.
In stages I and II a complete surgical resection is almost
always possible. Before surgery is performed, evaluation
of the pulmonary function is necessary to estimate the
maximum tolerated extent of pulmonary resection. The
extent of the resection should preferably be planned in
advance, even though final selection of the operative procedures must take place at the time of operation. The procedure of choice is the one that encompasses all existing
tumor tissue and provides maximum conservation of the
lung tissue, as determined by the location and degree of
tumor involvement, including sampling of all mediastinal
nodal stations or complete lymph node dissection. Segmental resection will be selected for patients with small,
peripheral tumors (<2 cm in diameter), with no evidence
of extension or metastases (T1N0M0). Lobectomy is performed for patients with a centrally located tumor mass
within the lobe, and an adequate tumor-free margin is
required for this type of resection. There may be lymph
node extension or metastases that are limited to intrapulmonary or immediate hilar lymphatic drainage which can
be totally encompassed by “en bloc dissection.” Pneumonectomy is the procedure of choice for patients having

Primary Malignant Tumors of the Lung and Pleura

149

more extensive disease, with tumors extending to the
orifice of the lobar bronchus and tumors originating within
or extending to the main stem bronchus, with involvement
of more than one lobe. Within recent years, video-assisted
thoracic surgery is gaining ground being less traumatic.
The therapeutic role of mediastinal lymph node dissection
is at present uncertain (26).

Adjuvant Therapy in Resectable
Stage I, II, and IIIa
As more than two-thirds of all resected patients relapse,
great attention has been given to adjuvant treatment,
such as postoperative radiation therapy and adjuvant chemotherapy, and numerous randomized studies have also
been undertaken. The rationale for applying postoperative
chemotherapy is to achieve reduction of circulating tumor
cells and eradication of subclinical metastases not recognized at surgery. Various cytotoxic agents and combinations
have been used as postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy in
randomized prospective studies, but with disappointing
results and until recently without major survival benefit, as
demonstrated in a meta-analysis performed in 1995 (27).
Data from 14 randomized trials, both published and unpublished, including 4357 patients were analyzed. Five trials
employed alkylating agents and six had cisplatin-based
regimens. Tegafur or UFT were administered in the remaining three trials. Alkylating agents were detrimental. The
hazard ratio estimate of 1.15 (p = 0.005) favored surgery
alone. This 15% increase in the risk of death translated into
an absolute decrease in survival of 4% at two years and 5%
at five years. Cisplatin-based chemotherapy was beneficial;
the absolute improvements were 3% at two years and 5%
at five years (p = 0.08). The trials employing Tegafur and
UFT were found to have a hazard ratio of 0.89 (p = 0.30)
in favor of chemotherapy. Based on these results, postoperative chemotherapy was not routinely adopted in 1995,
but the results constituted the rationale for a new generation of randomized trials with cisplatin-based regimens
performed in Europe, United States, and Japan.
The results of some of these trials have been published and a meta-analysis including five of these cisplatinbased chemotherapy trials with 4584 patients have been
performed. The analysis demonstrated a hazard ration of
0.89 (95% CI 0.82–0.96, p = 0.004), which translates into a
survival benefit of 5.3% ± 1.6% at five years by adjuvant
chemotherapy for the total group. Cisplatin and vinorelbine was the most widely used chemotherapy protocols.
Based on these data, cisplatin-based adjuvant chemotherapy is recommended in Stages II and IIIA whereas it is
optional in Stage IB (28).
With respect to postoperative radiotherapy after
complete resection, it does decrease the rate of local recurrences, but has no significant impact on survival, probably because distant metastases are common regardless of
the control of intrathoracic disease (29). The topic remains
controversial—especially after the Post-Operative Radiation Trial’s (PORT) group concluded in a meta-analysis
that postoperative radiotherapy in patients with stages I
and II may be associated with a detrimental effect (30). The
main criticism of the PORT analysis is the failure to consider the way in which radiotherapy is administered,
including the use of Cobalt 60 irradiations.

150

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Preoperative and Postoperative Therapies in
Potentially Resectable Stage IIIa
In NSCLC patients with Stage III disease other than T3
lesions, the extent of disease usually prohibits surgical
resection. Therefore, investigations have been initiated in
which different types of preoperative chemotherapy or
radiotherapy, either alone or in combination, has been
applied to minimize the extent of tumor before surgery,
thereby increasing the possibility of radical resection. Some
studies have shown encouraging results with regard to
downstaging using chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy,
but the final impact on survival still awaits the results of
larger, randomized studies.

Combined Modality Therapy
in Unresectable Stage III
As the effects of radiotherapy and chemotherapy used
alone have been modest, the combination of these has been
explored extensively in nonresectable and locoregional
NSCLC (31,32). The efficacy of concurrent chemoradiation
has been confirmed in several meta-analyses of randomized trials, showing combined modality therapy to be superior to radiation alone, and it is now considered the
standard of care for the treatment of locally advanced
NSCLC. What still remains to be clarified are the optimal
volume, dose, schedule, and fractionation of radiotherapy, issues which are currently under investigation in
multinational trials, including identification of the best
chemotherapy regimen.

Chemotherapy for Stage IIIb (Malignant
Pleural Effusion) and Stage IV
NSCLC is one of the most chemoresistant solid tumors
with a response rate of 15–25% for single agents (Table 8.6),
usually of three to five months’ duration. However, when
combining two or three of the most active drugs, the
response rates increase to 30–50%, mainly due to new more
active and less toxic cytotoxic agents, such as taxanes,
vinorelbine, and gemcitabine (33). Examples of commonly
used combination chemotherapy as first-line treatment are

Table 8.6 Most Frequently Chosen Active Agents for Inclusion
in Combination Chemotherapy in Nonsmall Cell Lung Cancer
Alkylating agents
Cis-platinum
Carboplatin
Ifosfamide
Antimitotic agentse
Docetaxel (Taxotere®)
Paclitaxel (Taxol®)
Vinblastine (Velbe®)
Vinorelbine (Navelbine®)
Antimetabolites
Gemcitabine (Gemzar®)
Pemetrexed (Alimta®)
Topoisomerase inhibitors
Etoposide
Mitomycin
Irinotecan (Camptho®)

given in Table 8.7. No one regimen has been demonstrated
to be superior in the first-line treatment for patients with
advanced NSCLC. At present, it is generally accepted that
platinum-based chemotherapy should be standard first-line
treatment to advanced NSCLC patients in good performance status, as documented median survival benefit of
two to four months is achieved and symptom relief is
documented to occur in 40–60% of all patients. Chemotherapy is usually administered for no more than four to
six cycles in patients with Stage IV NSCLC. Until recently,
none of the two-drug combinations applied had demonstrated any major differences in activity among the various
histologic types of NSCLC. Very recently, however, a large
study comparing cisplatin plus gemcitabine with cisplatin
plus permetrexed in chemotherapy-naïve patients with
advanced NSCLC, including 1735 patients, has shed new
light on this question (34). Patients were not randomly
assigned according to histology, but in a prespecified subset analysis of the 847 patients with adenocarcinomas there
was an improved survival for the cisplatin plus pemetrexed arm compared to the cisplatin plus gemcitabine arm
(12.6 vs. 10.9 months, respectively; hazard ratio 0.84; 95%
CL 0.71–0.99, p = 0.03). In contrast, in patients with
squamous cell carcinoma (N = 473), survival analysis
favored the cisplatin plus gemcitabin arm compared with
cisplatin plus premetrexed (10.8 months vs. 9.4 months,
respectively; hazard ratio 1.23; 95% CL 1.00–1.51, p = 0.05).
The authors propose a molecular rationale for these results
based on the observation that premetrexed inhibits thynidylate synthetase (TS). Baseline of TS gene is significantly
higher in squamous cell carcinoma than in adenocarcinoma
and preclinical data suggest that there is a reduced activity
of premetrexed with a high expression of TS. Further studies are obviously needed to elucidate these results, including analysis for various biomarkers.

Table 8.7

Commonly Used Regimens in NSCLCa

Regimen

Doses and schedule

Cisplatin
Paclitaxel

75–80 mg/m2 day 1
135 mg/m2/24 day 1 every 21 days; or
175 mg/m2/3 hr day 1
AUC = 6 day 1
225 mg/m2 day 1 every 21 days
100 mg/m2 day 1
25 mg/m2/wk every 28 days
100 mg/m2 day 1
1,000 mg/m2/wk every 28 days
AUC = 6 day 1
1000 mg/m2 day 1 and 8
75 mg/m2 day 1
75 mg/m2 day 1 every 21 days
1100 mg/m2 day 1 and 8
100 mg/m2 day 8 every 21 days
200 mg/m2 day 1
1000 mg/m2 day 1 and 8 every 21 days
75 mg/m2 day 1 every 3 wks
500 mg/m2 day 1 every 3 wks

Carboplatin
Paclitaxel
Cisplatin
Vinorelbine
Cisplatin
Gemcitabine
Carboplatin
Gemcitabine
Cisplatin
Doxetaxel
Gemcitabine
Docetaxel
Paclitaxel
Gemcitabine
Cisplatin
Pemetrexed
a

Modified after Socinski MA, Morris DE, Masters GA et al. Chemotherapeutic
management of stage IV non-small cell lung cancer. Hest 2003; 123: 226S–43S.
(Ref. 32).
Abbreviation: AUC, area under the concentration curve.

Chapter 8:

With respect to the elderly patients having advanced
lung cancer, treatment tends to be complicated by their
comorbid conditions. However, studies have shown that
the “fit” elderly are likely to benefit as much from chemotherapy as their younger counterparts (35). The response
rate, toxicity, and survival in fit elderly NSCLC patients
receiving combination chemotherapy, including platinumcontaining regimens, appear to be similar to those in
younger patients.
In a disease with poor survival it is important also to
focus on the palliative effect of therapy, including qualityof-life parameters (and costs), and these parameters are
being increasingly included, not only in the evaluation of
clinical trials, but also in the day-to-day management of
newly diagnosed patient with advanced NSCLC.
Second-line chemotherapy to NSCLC has become a
new treatment option, as single-agent therapy with docetaxel in doses of 75 mg/m2 i.v. q. 3 weeks in patients
not previously treated with this drug has shown both
quality-of-life benefit and slight improvement in the overall survival in randomized trials when compared to best
supportive care in patients with advanced NSCLC with a
performance status of 0 to 2 (36). Among the newer cytostatic agents, pemetrexed (Alimta) has been shown to be
noninferior to docetaxel, with a more favorable toxicity
profile (37). Noteworthy is also that one of the new vincaalkaloids, vinflunine, has shown equivalent activity when
compared with docetaxel as second-line treatment in a
study with 557 patients with NSCLC (38).

Radiotherapy
As the vast majority of NSCLC patients present with tumors
too advanced for surgery, other treatment options are necessary. Radiotherapy has an important palliative effect in
controlling troublesome symptoms caused by local tumor
effects or metastases, whereas the curative role is less clear,
but it appears that a small, highly selected group may
be cured by radical radiotherapy, using three-dimensional
(3-D) conformal or stereotactic radio surgery, thereby achieving a five-year survival rate of up to 40% (39). The latter
group includes otherwise operable patients in whom medical contraindication to surgery exists or in patients refusing surgery. Intended curative radiotherapy should cover
a treatment volume including the primary tumor, hilar,
and mediastinal lymph node areas, with a margin allowing
for the microscopic extension of tumor. Various dose and
fractionation schedules are used, including hyperfractionation with treatment given twice daily at total doses ranging
from 5500 to 6500 Gy, yielding better results. In the pivotal
study by Saunders et al (40). 563 patients were randomly
allocated in a 3:2 ratio to either conventional radiotherapy
(30 fractions of 2 Gy to a total dose of 60 Gy in six weeks)
or continuous hyperfractionated accelerated radiotherapy
(CHART) which uses 36 small fractions of 1.5 Gy given three
times per day, to give 54 Gy in only 12 consecutive days.
Overall, there was a 24% reduction in the relative risk of
death, which is equivalent to an absolute improvement in
two-year survival of 9% from 20% to 29% (95% CI 0.63–
0.92). Subgroup analyses suggest that the largest benefit
occurred in patients with squamous cell carcinoma.
Randomized studies of newer fractionation schedules
with or without chemotherapy are exploring higher than

Primary Malignant Tumors of the Lung and Pleura

151

60 Gy conventionally fractionated doses in carefully selected
patients.
Palliative radiotherapy, for example, 20 Gy in five
fractions, can be used for relief of symptoms, such as
hemoptysis, dyspnea caused by bronchial obstruction, dysphagia caused by mediastinal lymph node compression,
superior vena caval obstruction, and local pain caused
by chest wall or rib involvement (41). Also, extrathoracic
manifestations of NSCLC may benefit from palliative
radiotherapy. Palliative radiotherapy is also applied for
brain metastases in combination with corticosteroids, usually resulting in a short-lasting effect of two to three
months, with reduction of intracranial pressure and edema.
In patients with compression of the spinal cord, radiotherapy is also indicated after surgical decompression. Pain
caused by bone metastases can also be relieved by palliative radiotherapy and usually single fractions, for example,
8 Gy, may be sufficient.

Biologic Therapy
Much hope has been given to new biologic agents against
NSCLC (42,43) including:
a. Receptor-targeted therapy
b. Signal transduction—cell cycle inhibitors
c. Angiogenetic inhibitors
d. Gene therapy
e. Vaccines
Many of these agents are now in clinical development
with most experience having been obtained with the oral,
small-molecule epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine
kinase inhibitors gefitinib (Iressa®) and erlotonib (Tarceva®),
and the angiogenetic inhibitor bevacizumab (Avastin®)
(42,43). As a single agent, gefitinib resulted in response
rates of 12–18% and symptom improvement in 40–43%
lasting from a few weeks to several months at a dosage
level of 250 or 500 mg p.o. daily. All patients had failed
one or more previous chemotherapy regimens. Highest
activity was observed among patients with adenocarcinoma,
especially alveolar cell carcinoma and among females.
Response has also been seen in patients with CNS metastases including some patients who had progressed after
having received brain irradiation (44). Most frequent
adverse toxicity was generally mild, and included rash,
pruritus, and dry skin. Gefitinib has also been investigated
with two-drug chemotherapy in two large randomized
double-blind placebo controlled Phase III trials, each enrolling more than 1000 previously untreated advanced NSCLC
patients. There were no significant differences in response
rates, time to progression, or survival between the gefitinib
alone or placebo arm of either trial. The reasons for the
negative results are unclear (45,46). The results obtained
with erlotinib are mainly similar to the experience with
gefitinib, and erlotinib is now recommended and registered
for second- and third-line therapy in Stage IV NSCLC as
a single agent. Several studies are also ongoing exploring
various EGFR-inhibitors as first-line therapy in certain subsets of patients with advanced NSCLC (47). Among these,
preliminary data by Pirker et al. have demonstrated a
median survival advantage (11.3 months vs. 10 months,
hazard ratio 0.87, 95% CI 0.762–0.996, p < 0.044) in favor
of a combination of cisplatin, vinorelbine plus cetuximab

152

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

(Erbitux) compared with cisplatin and vinorelbine in a
study with 1125 patients with advanced NSCLC, expressing EGFR, including an increase in response rate from 26%
to 29% (p = 0.05) (48). Much effort has been exerted to
identify the patients expected to benefit from this targeted
therapy, but a golden standard aiming at this has not yet
been obtained (13). Several studies including recent large
randomized trials indicate that EGFR mutations and high
copy number are predictive of response to erlotonib and
that EGFR FISH is the strongest prognostic marker and a
significant predictive marker of differential survival benefit from erlotinib (49). As in other cancers the effect of the
inhibitor of angiogenesis, bevacizumab, has been studied in
combination with chemotherapy and based on an improvement in overall survival of two months when given in
combination with first-line chemotherapy to Stage IV nonsquamous NSCLC, the drug has been approved in both
the United States and Europe. The adverse events in nonsquamous NSCLC have been modest, but the drug has
caused lethal hemorrhagic adverse events in squamous cancers preventing the use of the drug in this subgroup (50).
The effect of other biologic agents interacting with
the EGFR or EGFR pathway and other growth factors is
at the moment being investigated further.

Small Cell Lung Cancer
Updated clinical guidelines have recently been presented
by both European and North American Organizations
(7–10,51–53).

Chemotherapy
The disseminated nature of SCLC, displaying a high frequency of metastases at the time of diagnosis combined
with a high sensitivity to cytostatic agents, has led to the
use of chemotherapy as the primary treatment of choice
in all its stages.
The most effective agents are listed in Table 8.8. The
most commonly used combinations include a platinum
compound together with the podophyllotoxins, usually
etoposide. Combinations including vincristine, cyclophosphamide/ifosfamide, or doxorubicin are also highly active.
Examples of frequently used treatment schedules are listed
in Table 8.9. In a trial by Sundstrøm et al. (54) including
436 eligible patients with limited (214) and extensive

Table 8.8 Agents Used in SCLC. Most Frequently Chosen Agents
for Inclusion in Combination Regimens for SCLC
Alkylating agents
Cisplatin
Carboplatin
Ifosfamide
Cyclophosphamide
Antimitotic agents
Vincristine
Paclitaxel (Taxol®)
Topoisomerase inhibitors
Etoposide
Irinotecan (Camptho®)
Topotecan (Hycamtin®)
Doxorubicin

Table 8.9

Commonly Used Regimens in Small Cell Carcinoma

Regimen
PE
Cisplatin
Etoposide
CE
Carboplatin
Etoposide
ICE
Ifosfamide
Carboplatin
Etoposide

Dosage and schedule
25 mg/m2 i.v. on days 1–3 or 60–80 mg/m2
i.v. on day 1
100 mg/m2 i.v. on days 1–3 or 115 mg/m2 i.v.
days 3–5
AUC 6 day 1 i.v.
100–120 mg/m2 day 1–3 q. 3 wks
5000 mg/m2 day 1+
300–400 mg/m2 day 1
100–120 mg/m2 day 1–3 + mesna 500 mg/m2
day 1 and 3000 mg day 2.

CAV
Cyclophosphamide
Adriamycin
Vincristine

1000 mg/m2 i.v. on day 1 q 3 wks
45 mg/m2 i.v. on day 1 q 3 wks
1.4 mg/m2 i.v. on day 1

CAVE
Cyclophosphamide
Adriamycin
Vincristine
Etoposide

1000 mg/m2 i.v. on day 1
50 mg/m2 i.v. on day 1
1.5 mg/m2 i.v. on day 1
60 mg/m2 i.v. on days 1–5

disease (222), a combination of etoposide and cisplatin was
shown to be superior to a three-drug combination of cyclophosphamide, epirubicin, and vincristine. For all patients
the two and five-year survival rates in the EP arm (14%
and 5%) were significantly higher compared with the EP
arm (6%) (p = 0.0004). Patients with limited disease received
thoracic radiotherapy concurrently with chemotherapy
cycle 3, and those achieving complete remission during the
treatment period also received prophylactic cranial irradiation. In a recently published Japanese study (55), which
included only patients with extensive disease, survival
rates with a combination of irinotecan plus cisplatin were
superior to those with etoposide and cisplatin with oneyear survival being 56% versus 34%. A confirmatory trial
in the United States failed to confirm the encouraging data,
which may be related to a change in the treatment schedule causing more toxicity in the U.S. study (56). Among
the other new compounds, topotecan appears to be the
most promising, with studies indicating that oral topotecan
is as effective as intravenous etoposide in combination with
cisplatin (57).
Scheduling of drugs as well as the actual combination used is of great importance. Thus, etoposide is more
effective when given as a five-day course than when the
same dose is given over 24 hours (58).
For both limited (stages I–III) and extensive (Stage
IV) disease the response rates achieved are over 80%. Complete response, with no clinical or histopathological evidence of malignant disease, is initially obtained in 30–40%
of patients with limited disease and 15–20% of patients
with extensive disease. The primary problem in managing
this disease is that the median survival for patients with
limited disease is only about 14–16 months and usually
8–10 months for extensive disease, whereas long-term

Chapter 8:

survival (beyond five years) is 10–15% and 3–5%, respectively, for the two stages. One should be aware that survival results vary according to selection criteria, and more
representative results from large national studies are less
encouraging (1,59). With respect to the duration of treatment needed to produce optimal results, a period of six
months corresponding to six cycles of chemotherapy is currently an acceptable standard. In patients presenting with
poor prognostic factors such as performance status 3 to 4,
involvement of the liver and bone marrow and/or severe
comorbid diseases, the initial dose of chemotherapy should
be reduced, and careful monitoring is recommended over
the first weeks.
Within recent years, new approaches to chemotherapy have been undertaken to improve treatment results.
The intensity of chemotherapy can also be increased, particularly as consolidation treatment by the use of autologous bone marrow infusion, and by peripheral blood stem
cells; several randomized trials have been performed, but
most of the data published so far have not resulted in clinically significant superiority compared to standard therapy.
Noteworthy is that in a single study, more intensive treatment with four drugs instead of two drugs resulted in
improved one-year survival (40% vs. 27%), but with more
severe hematologic toxicity (60).
Other treatment approaches include scheduling of
drugs based on cell kinetic observations or the use of anticoagulants, such as warfarin and antiangionetic agents such
as thalidomide, but the results are inconclusive. Another
attempt to improve chemotherapy is alternating combination chemotherapy using different noncross-resistant combinations, because resistant clones of SCLC cells, which
develop either at the time of diagnosis or during chemotherapy, are thought to be the reason for treatment failure
in most patients. Again, the impact on survival is modest.
The use of biological response modifiers, such as interferons as maintenance therapy, has also been tested, but again
with disappointing results. Granulocyte colony-stimulating
factor (CSF) and granulocyte–macrophage CSF, given to
counter the hematological effects of combination chemotherapy, lessen the severity of neutropenic episodes, but
they do not significantly appear to influence survival in
spite of the increased doses of chemotherapy.
When patients relapse, and most do within the first
two years, the results of second-line treatment with combination chemotherapy are usually disappointing. Using
noncross-resistant regimens at multifocal relapse, a response
rate of 20–25% is obtained with a median duration of survival of three to four months. If there is a longer chemotherapy-free interval of >3 months before relapse, the same
drug combination that initially produced a response may
be repeated with a response rate of up to 50%, but again
the effect is rather short lasting. In a recent study the use
of topotecan 1.0 mg/m2 i.v. daily × 5 was as effective as a
three-drug combination of cyclofosfamide, adriamycin, and
vincristine (CAV) given i.v (61). It has also been demonstrated that addition of oral topotecan to best supportive
care (BSC) significantly increased overall survival and
resulted in better symptom control. In the study with
141 patients with relapsed SCLC the median survival times
were 25.9 weeks versus 13.9 weeks in topotecan + BSC and
BSC alone, respectively (p = 0.01) (62). If the patient has a
local relapse and has not received irradiation previously,

Primary Malignant Tumors of the Lung and Pleura

153

the latter should be the treatment of choice. In addition,
expandable metal stents and endobronchial laser beam
therapy are also valuable tools in patients with obstructive
intrathoracic tumor components.

Radiotherapy
Among the different types of lung cancer, SCLC is by far
the most radiosensitive. Three decades ago radiotherapy
was the main mode of therapy for this disease, but the
recognition that SCLC disseminates early and widely has
changed the role of radiotherapy. A small but statistically
definite benefit of a 5% improvement in three-year survival
based on meta-analysis can be seen in patients with limited
disease when thoracic irradiation is added to combination
chemotherapy (63). Limited disease is defined as a tumor
that can be encompassed in a single radiation port. Limited
disease is thus confined to one hemithorax with regional
lymph node metastases, including lobar, ipsilateral supraclavicular mediastinal, and/or contralateral lobar nodes.
Chest irradiation also significantly decreases the rate of
local recurrence, and a dose-response relationship exists for
up to 45–50 Gy with conventional 2-Gy daily fractions. The
exact timing of irradiation is uncertain when given in relation to chemotherapy, but probably irradiation given concurrently with the first two courses is the most optimal.
With respect to hyperfractionation, the results from two
randomized trials (64,65) have been published. One of
these included 147 patients and showed statistically significant superiority of 10 twice-daily irradiation sessions
compared with daily irradiation, with five-year survival
rates of 26% and 16%, respectively (64). A similar effect
was not observed in the other study (65), possibly because
radiotherapy was started after three cycles of chemotherapy and given as a split-course rather than continuously
starting on day 1 with cycle 1, as applied in the study of
Turrisi et al (64).
Because of the high propensity of SCLC to metastasize early to the brain, elective (prophylactic) cranial
irradiation for SCLC has been applied for many years,
especially in patients achieving a complete response. In all
10–15% of these patients will develop brain metastases.
Cranial irradiation reduces brain metastases significantly
and it also increases the time before brain metastases
become symptomatic in patients having obtained a complete response to induction therapy. Furthermore, in several
meta-analyses, prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI) has
been demonstrated to have a statistically significant impact
on survival in patients with limited disease who achieve
a complete remission. Three-year survival with PCI was
20.7% versus 15.3% without PCI (66). Very recently, a study
by the EORTC has also shown prolongation of survival
(6.7 months vs. 5.4 months, p = 0.0033) when PCI was
added within five weeks of completion of chemotherapy
in a randomized trial including 286 patients with extensive
SCLC (67). The optimal dose and timing of radiotherapy
are again uncertain; usually the total dose does not exceed
30 Gy, given in fractions of 2.5 Gy daily.
In SCLC patients presenting with CNS metastases,
complete responses shown on brain CT and neurological
improvement after induction might be achieved by chemotherapy alone, because brain metastases respond as
frequently as metastatic SCLC disease at other sites.

154

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Surgery
The very few SCLC patients who present with T1–2, N0–1
disease are candidates for surgical treatment. As a result
of the disseminated nature of this type of lung cancer,
postoperative chemotherapy is indicated for a period of
6 months in these patients and prophylactic cranial irradiation may be considered.

Follow-up
Although the impact of routine radiologic follow-up of
asymptomatic patients is not clearly defined in the literature, follow-up should be considered. For patients who
achieve long-term survival, monitoring for development
of a second primary cancer may be considered. Smoking
cessation is recommended.

Neuroendocrine Tumors, including
Pulmonary Carcinoids
In contrast to small cell carcinoma, the other neuroendocrine tumors originating in the lung are on the rise, according to data published by Skuladottir et al. (59) Surgery is
the only potentially curative therapy in patients with carcinoids. Radiotherapy can be used to treat symptomatic
metastases, but has no place in the primary treatment of
this disease entity. Also, the application of chemotherapy
is in general disappointing, but combination chemotherapy
with platinum and etoposide sometimes yields worthwhile
long-lasting responses in patients with aggressive pulmonary neuroendocrine tumors, including carcinoids (68).

Management of Other Malignant Tumors
of the Lung and Pleura
Mesothelioma
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is an aggressive
and locally invasive malignant tumor of the pleura arising
from the mesothelial cells lining the pleura. MPM is usually associated with a history of chronic asbestos exposure

and the incidence of this disease is increasing throughout
the world. The incidence is expected to peak within the
next 10–15 years.
The initial clinical presentation is usually progressive
dyspnea and/or chest wall pain caused by pleural effusion
with chest wall invasion. Weight loss, cough, and fatigue
are also common symptoms.
A diagnosis of MPM is usually conducted on the
basis of chest x-ray, CT-scan of the thorax combined with
MRI of the chest and also PET with the latter ones being
applied if potentially curative surgery is being considered
for the patient.
A diagnosis of MPM may be based on pleural fluid
cytology in 20–30% of the patients and in the remaining
by a needle biopsy of one of the pleural masses, either
CT-guided or using video-assisted thoracoscopy (VATS).
In addition to standard histology, special immunohistochemical stains should be applied to reach a reliable
diagnosis, thereby distinguishing MPM from adenocarcinoma with staining for calretinin and vimentin being typical for MPM cure lacking in adenocarcinoma of the lung.
Recently, a new serum marker called soluble mesothelinrelated protein (SMRP) has been observed to occur in
80–90% of all patients with MPM, and mesothelin expression
in <50% of the MPM malignant cells has been demonstrated to be a significant negative prognostic factor (69).
The treatment is dependent on the stage with the most
commonly accepted staging system being the International
Mesothelioma Staging System (IMIG) (Table 8.10).
The prognosis for patients with MPM is usually poor
with median survival of 6–12 months and cures occur only
in the subset of patients presenting with Stage I and II in
performance ECOC 0-1 undergoing extrapleural pneumonectomy with resection of the diaphragm.
Two-year survival rates in this group of patients vary
in recent studies from 20% to 45% (70,71). With respect to
radiotherapy, mesothelioma is rather resistant and radical
irradiation with 40–50 Gy to the entire pleural space and
the mediastinum followed by boost irradiation up to
55–70 Gy to areas of gross disease are being used, but is

Table 8.10

Staging of Mesotheliomas

Stage

Tumor

Lymph nodes

Metastases

Stage Ia

Limited to the ipsilateral parietal pleura,
including the mediastinal and
diaphragmatic pleurae
Ipsilateral parietal pleura, including the
mediastinal and diaphragmatic pleurae
Each ipsilateral pleural surface

None detectable
N0

None
M0

None detectable
N0
N0

None
M0
M0

Metastases in ipsilateral bronchopulmonary or
hilar lymph nodes.
or
Metastases in subcarinal or ipsilateral mediastinal
lymph nodes, including ipsilateral internal
mammary lymph nodes
Metastases in contralateral mediastinal,
contralateral internal mammary, and ipsilateral
or contralateral supraclavicular lymph nodes.

No distant metastases

Stage Ib
T1b,N0,M0
Stage II
T2,N0,M0
Stage III
Any T3
Any N1 or N2
M0
Stage IV
Any T4
Any N3
Any M1

Locally advanced, technically unresectable
tumor (each ipsilateral pleural surface)

Locally advanced, technically unresectable
tumor (each ipsilateral pleural surface)

Distant metastases present

Chapter 8:

difficult to apply without significant toxicity. Radiocolloids, such as 198Au or 32P, have also been given into the
pleural cavity but with disappointing results. With respect
to chemotherapy the response rates to both single agent
and combination chemotherapy have been low (<20%). In a
study, including a total of 448 patients, the use of pemetrexed (Alimta), an antifolate with multiple mechanisms of
action, given together with cisplatin resulted in significant
improvement of both survival and quality of life compared
with cisplatin alone, with response rates of 40% compared
to 16.7% for cisplatin alone, and median overall survival
of 12.1 months versus 9.3 months; also improvement of
lung function and subjective quality of life were noted (72).
Also the combination of cisplatin and raltitrexed has been
demonstrated to be superior to cisplatin in patients with
MPM in a randomized trial with 250 patients based on
both response rates (24% vs. 14%) and median survival
(11.1 vs. 8.8 months) (73).
Ongoing studies are exploring the effect of combination chemotherapy given as an adjunct to extrapleural
pneumonectomy and/or radiotherapy, including intensitymodulated radiation therapy (IMRI) as part of multimodality treatment with chemotherapy being given both pre- and
postoperatively. Overall, there is an increasing tendency to
apply trimodality therapy using this approach based on
the results of a series of Phase II trials in both the United
States and Europe (70,71).
With respect to targeted therapies, a variety of biological agents have been explored or are undergoing evaluation in MPM patients, but the results of studies testing
EGFR tyrasine kinase inhibitors (gefitinib and erlotinib)
have shown limited or no activity, and so have trials with
imatinib mesylate.

REFERENCES
1.

2.

3.

4.
5.

6.

7.

8.
9.

Janssen-Heijnen MLG, Coebergh J-WW. Trends in incidence
and prognosis of their histological subtypes of lung cancer
in North America, Australia, New Zealand and Europe. Lung
Cancer 2001; 31: 123–7.
Berrino F, De Angelis R, Rosso S et al., the EUROCARE-4
Working group. Survival for eight major cancers and all
cancers combined for European adults diagnosed in 1995–99:
results of the EUROCARE-4 study. Lancet Oncol 2007; 8:
773–83.
Verdecchia A, Francisci S, Brenner H et al., the EUROCARE-4
Working Group. Recent cancer survival in Europe: a 2000–02
period analysis of EUROCARE-4 data. Lancet Oncol 2007; 8:
784–96.
The GLOBOCAN 2002 database. http://www-dep.iarc.fr/
globocan/database.htm
Youlden DR, Cramb SM, Baade PD. The international epidemiology of lung cancer. Geographical distribution and secular trends. J Thorac Oncol 2008; 3: 819–31.
Borràs JM, Fernandez E, Gonzalez JR et al. Lung cancer
mortality in European regions (1955-1997). Ann Oncol 2003;
14: 159–61.
Fontana RS, Sanderson DR, Woolner LB et al. Lung cancer
screening: the Mayo program. J Occup Environ Med 1996;
28: 746–50.
Henschke CI. CT screening for lung cancer is justified. Nat
Clin Pract Oncol 2007; 4: 440–1.
Gleeson FV. Screening for lung cancer with spiral CT is not
justified. Nat Clin Pract Oncol 2007; 4: 442–3.

10.

11.

12.
13.

14.

15.
16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.
25.

26.
27.

28.

29.

Primary Malignant Tumors of the Lung and Pleura

155

Yau G, Lock M, Rodrigues G. Systematic review of baseline
low-dose CT lung cancer screening. Lung Cancer 2007; 58:
161–70.
Conrad DH, Goyette J, Thomas PS. Proteomics as a method
for early detection of cancer: a review of proteomics, exhaled
breath condensate and lung cancer screening. J Gen Intern
Med 2007; 23: 78–84.
Herbst RS, Haymach JV, Lippman SC. Lung Cancer. N Engl
J Med 2008; 359: 1367–80.
Dziadzinsko R, Hirsch FR. Advances in genomic and proteomic studies of non-small-cell lung cancer: clinical and
translational research perspective. Clin Lung Cancer 2008:
Mar; 9: 78–84.
Bunn PA Jr, Thatcher N. Systemic treatment for advanced
(stage IIIb/IV) non-small cell lung cancer: more treatment
options; more things to consider. Conclusion. Oncologist
2008; 13(suppl 1): 37–46.
Fischer B, Arcaro A. Current status of clinical trials for small
cell lung cancer. Rev Recent Clin Trials 2008, 3: 40–61.
Travis WD, Brambilla E, Müller-Hermelink HK et al., eds.
WHO Classification: Pathology and Genetics of Tumours
of the Lung, Pleura, Thymus and Heart. Lyon: IARC Press,
2004: 10.
Raz DJ, Rosell R, Jablons DM. Current concepts on bronchioloalveolar carcinoma biology. Clin Cancer Res 2006; 12:
3698–704.
Hawson G, Firouz-Abadi A, Ford CA et al. Primary lung
cancer: characterisation and survival of 1024 patients treated
in a single institution. Med J Aust 1990; 152: 230–4.
Ung YC, Maziak DE, Vanderveen JA et al. 18Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in the diagnosis and
staging of lung cancer: a systematic review. J Natl Cancer
Inst 2007; 99: 1753–67.
De Leyn P, Lardinois D, Van Schil PE et al. ESTS guidelines
for preoperative lymph node staging for non-small cell lung
cancer. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 2007; 32: 1–8
Silvestri GA, Could MK, Margolis ML et al. Noninvasive
staging of non-smal cell lung cancer: ACCP evidenced-based
clinical practice guidelines (2nd edition). Chest 2007; 132:
178S–201S.
ESMO Guidelines Working Group. Non-small-cell lung cancer: ESMO Clinical Recommendations for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol 2007; 18(Suppl 2): ii30–1.
De Leyn P, Stroobants S, De Wever W et al. Prospective
comparative study of integrated positron emission tomographycomputed tomography scan compared with remediastinoscopy in the assessment of residual mediastinal lymph node
disease after induction chemotherapy for mediastinoscopyproven stage IIIA-N2 non-small-cell lung cancer: a Leuven
Lung Cancer Group Study. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 3333–9.
Mountain CF. Revisions in the international system for staging lung cancer. Chest 1997; 111: 1710–17.
Kloover JS, van Klaveren RJ. Staging, staging procedures
and prognostic factors. In: Hansen HH ed. Lung Cancer
Therapy Annual 6. London: Informa HealthCare, 2008:
57–90.
Keller SM. Complete mediastinal lymph node dissection—
does it make a difference? Lung Cancer 2002; 36: 7–8.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Collaborative Group, Chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis using
updated data on individual patients from 52 randomised
clinical trials. BMJ 1995; 311: 899–909.
Pignon J, Tribodet H, Scagliotti G et al. Lung Adjuvant Cisplatin Evaluation (LACE): A pooled analysis of five randomized clinical trials including 4,584 patients. J Clin Oncol 2006;
24: 366s (abstract 7008).
Arriagada R, Le Pechoux C, Pignon JP. Resected non-small cell
lung cancer: Need for adjuvant lymph-node treatment? From
hope to reality. Lung Cancer 2003; 42(Suppl 1): S57–64.

156
30.

31.

32.

33.
34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
PORT Meta-analysis Trialist Group. Postoperative radiotherapy
in non-small-cell lung cancer: systematic review and metaanalysis of individual patients data from nine randomised
controlled trials. Lancet 1998; 352: 257.
Govindan R, Bogart J, Vokes EE. Locally advanced non-small
cell lung cancer: the past, present, and future. J Thorac Oncol
2008; 3: 917–28.
Auperin A, Le Pechoux C, Pignon JP et al. Concomitant
radio-chemotherapy based on platin compounds in patients
with locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): a
meta-analysis of individual data from 1764 patients. Ann
Oncol 2006; 17: 473–83.
Molina JR, Adjei AA, Jett JR. Advances in chemotherapy of
non-small cell lung cancer. Chest 2006; 130: 1211–19.
Scagliotti GV, Parikh P, von Pawel J et al. Phase III study
comparing cisplatin plus gemcitabine with cisplatin plus pemetrexed in chemotherapy-naive patients with advanced-stage
non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 3543–51.
Weinmann M, Jeremic B, Toomes H et al. Treatment of lung
cancer in the elderly. Part I: non-small cell lung cancer. Lung
Cancer 2003; 39: 233–54.
Shepherd FA, Dancey J, Ramlau R et al. Prospective randomized trial of docetaxel versus best supportive care in
patients with non-small cell lung cancer previously treated
with platinum-based chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol 2000; 18:
2095–103.
Hanna N, Shepherd FA, Fossella FV et al. Randomized
phase III trial of pemetrexed versus docetaxel in patients with
non-small-cell lung cancer previously treated with chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 1589–97.
Douillard JY, Coudert B, Gridelli C et al. Phase III study of
i.v. vinflunine (VFL) versus i.v. docetaxel (DTX) in patients
with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC) previously treated with a platinum-containing regimen. Eur J Cancer Suppl 2007; 5: 358.
Onishi H, Shirato H, Nagata Y et al. Hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy (HypoFXSRT) for stage I non-small cell
lung cancer: updated results of 257 patients in a Japanese
multi-institutional study. J Thorac Oncol 2007; 2(Suppl 3):
S94–100.
Saunders M, Dische S, Barrett A et al. Continuous hyperfractionated accelerated radiotherapy (CHART) versus conventional radiotherapy in non-small-cell lung cancer: a
randomised multicentre trial. CHART Steering Committee.
Lancet 1997; 350: 161–5.
Kramer GW, Wanders SL, Noordijk EM et al. Results of the
Dutch National study of the palliative effect of irradiation
using two different treatment schemes for non-small-cell lung
cancer. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 2962–70.
Kelly K, Huang C. Biological agents in non-small cell lung
cancer: a review of recent advances and clinical results with
a focus on epidermal growth factor receptor and vascular
endothelial growth factor. J Thorac Oncol 2008; 3: 664–73.
Pirker R, Minar W, Filipits M. Integrating EGFR targeted
therapies into platinum-based chemotherapy regimens for
newly diagnosed non-small cell lung cancer. Clin Lung
Cancer, 2008; 9: S109–115.
Cappuzzo F, Ardizzoni A, Soto-Parra H et al. Epidermal
growth factor receptor targeted therapy by ZC 1839 (Iressa)
in patients with brain metastases from non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC). Lung Cancer 2003; 41: 227–31.
Giaccone G, Herbst RS, Manegold C et al. Gefitinib in
combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin in advanced
non-small-cell lung cancer: a phase III trial—INTACT 1. J Clin
Oncol 2004; 22: 777–84.
Herbst RS, Giaccone G, Schiller JH et al. Gefitinib in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin in advanced nonsmall-cell lung cancer: a phase III trial—INTACT 2. J Clin
Oncol 2004; 22: 785–94.

47. Fong T, Morgensztern D, Govindan R. EGFR inhibitors as
first-line therapy in advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
J Thorac Oncol 2008; 3: 303–10.
48. Pirker R, Szczesna A, von Pawel J et al. FLEX: a randomized,
multicenter, phase III study of cetuximab in combination with
cisplatin/vinorelbine (CV) versus CV alone in the first-line
treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). 2008 ASCO Annual Meeting Proceedings. J Clin
Oncol 2008; 26: 6s (abstract 3).
49. Zhu C-Q, Santos GdC, Ding K et al. Role of KRAS and EGFR
as biomarkers of response to erotinib in National Cancer
Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group Study BR.21. J Clin
Oncol 2008; 26: 4268–75.
50. Cohen MH, Gootenberg J, Keegan P et al. FDA Drug Approval
Summary: Bevacizumab (Avastin®) plus carboplatin and
paclitaxel as first-line treatment of advanced/metastatic
recurrent nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer. Oncologist 2007; 12: 713–18.
51. ESMO Guidelines Working Group. Small-cell lung cancer:
ESMO Clinical Recommendations for diagnosis, treatment
and follow-up. Ann Oncol 2007; 18(Suppl 2): ii32–3.
52. Samson DJ, Sidenfeld J, Simon GR et al. Evidence for management of small cell lung cancer: ACCP evidence-based clinical
practice guidelines (2nd edition). Chest 2007; 132: 314S–23S.
53. National Comprehensive Cancer Network. Clinical Practice
Guidelines in OncologyTM. Small Cell Lung Cancer v.1.2008.
http://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/sclc.
pdf2008
54. Sundstrøm S, Bremnes RM, Kaasa S et al. Cisplatin and
etoposide (EP-regimen is superior to cyclophosphamide,
epirubicin, and vincristine (CEV-regimen) in small cell lung
cancer: results from a randomized phase III trial with 5-year
follow-up. Eur J Cancer 2001; 37(Suppl 6): S153 (abstract 556).
55. Noda K, Nistriwaki Y, Kawahara M et al. Irinotecan plus
cisplatin compared with etoposide plus cisplatin for extensive
small cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2002; 346: 85–91.
56. Natale RB, Lara PN, Chansky K et al. SO124: A randomized
phase III trial comparing irinotecan/cisplatin (IP) with
etoposide/cisplatin (EP) in patients with previously untreated
extensive stage small cell lung cancer (E-SCLC). J Clin Oncol
2008; 26: 400s (abstract 7512).
57. Eckardt JR, von Pawel J, Pujol JL et al. Phase III study of oral
compared with intravenous topotecan as second-line therapy
in small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 2086–92.
58. Souhami RL, Spiro SG, Rudd RM et al. Five-day oral
etoposide treatment for advanced small-cell lung cancer:
randomized comparison with intravenous chemotherapy.
J Natl Cancer Inst 1997; 89: 577–80.
59. Skuladottir H, Hirsch FR, Hansen HH et al. Pulmonary neuroendocrine tumors: Incidence and prognosis of histological
subtypes. A population-based study in Denmark. Lung
Cancer 2002; 37: 127–35.
60. Pujol JL, Daurès JP, Rivière A et al. Etoposide plus cisplatin with or without the combination of 4′-epidoxorubicin
plus c yclophosphamide in treatment of extensive small-cell
lung cancer: a French Federation of Cancer Institutes Multicenter Phase III randomized study. J Natl Cancer Inst 2001;
93: 300–8.
61. von Pawel J, Schiller JH, Shepherd FA et al. Topotecan vs
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and vincristine for the treatment of recurrent small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 1999;
7: 658–67.
62. O’Brien ME, Ciuleanu TE, Tsekov H et al. Phase III trial
comparing supportive care alone with supportive care with
oral topotecan in patients with relapsed small-cell lung
cancer. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 5441–7.
63. Pignon JP, Arriagada R, Ihde DC et al. A meta-analyses of
thoracic radiotherapy for small cell lung cancer. New Eng J
Med 1992; 327: 1618–24.

Chapter 8:
64. Turrisi AT, Kim K, Blum R et al. Twice daily compared with
once daily radiotherapy in limited small cell lung cancer
treated concurrently with cisplatin and etoposide. N Engl J
Med 1999; 340: 265–71.
65. Schild SE, Bonner JA, Shanahan TG et al. Long-term results
of a phase III trial comparing once-daily radiotherapy with
twice-daily radiotherapy in limited-stage small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2004; 59: 943–51.
66. Cochrane Collaboration Consumer. Prophylactic cranial irradiation improves survival rate of patients with small-cell
lung cancer in complete remission. An update on: “Cranial
irradiation for preventing brain metastases of small cell
lung cancer in patients in complete remission” (Cochrane
Review). In: The Cochrane Library, 2, 2001. Oxford: Update
Software.
67. Slotman B, Faivre-Finn C, Kramer G et al. Prophylactic cranial irradiation in extensive small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J
Med 2007; 357: 664–72.
68. Gustafsson BI, Kidd M, Chan A. Bronchopulmonary
neuroendocrine tumors. Cancer 2008; 113: 5–21.

69.

70.
71.

72.

73.

74.

Primary Malignant Tumors of the Lung and Pleura

157

Roe OD, Creaney J, Lundgren S et al. Mesothelin-related
predictive and prognostic factors in malignant mesothelioma:
A nested case-control study. Lung Cancer 2008; 61: 235–43.
Baas P. Optimising survival in malignant mesothelioma. Lung
Cancer 2007; 57(Suppl 2): S24–9.
Tsiouris A, Walesby RK. Malignant pleural mesothelioma:
current concepts in treatment. Nat Clin Pract Oncol 2007;
4: 344–52.
Vogelzang NJ, Rusthoven JJ, Symanowski J et al. Phase III
study of pemetrexed in combination with cisplatin versus
cisplatin alone in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 2636–44.
van Meerbeeck JP, Gaafar R, Manegold C et al. Randomized
phase III study of cisplatin with or without reltitrexed in
proteins with malignant pleural mesothelioma: an Intergroup
study of the Europen Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Lung Cancer Group and the National Cancer
Institute of Canada. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 6881–8.
Mountain CF. A new international staging system for lung
cancers. Chest 1986; 89: 225S–33S.

9
1
Gastrointestinal Cancer
Rachel Wong, Ian Chau, and David Cunningham

Gastrointestinal (GI) cancers are the most common cancers
in Europe and the United States and represent a major
public health problem worldwide. Recent advances have
increased the complexity of the management of GI cancer
and many GI cancers now require a multimodality approach
to treatment. The multidisciplinary team—comprising of
medical, radiation, and surgical oncologists, radiologists,
nuclear medicine physicians, gastroenterologists, pathologists, specialist nurses, and pharmacists—has therefore
become imperative when determining optimal management.
For medical oncologists, considerable progress has been
made not only in refining the delivery of chemotherapy,
but also in establishing a role for molecular targeted therapies in the treatment of many GI malignancies. Treatment
paradigms, of course, continue to evolve, facilitated by
participation in clinical trials that should be encouraged.
This chapter summarizes current oncological practice in the
treatment of GI cancers.

Staging
The median survival of patients with esophageal cancer is
strongly correlated with stage at diagnosis. Careful selection
of patients suitable for an aggressive approach to management is vital. Initial staging investigations performed on
patients with esophageal cancer may include computed
tomography (CT) of chest and abdomen, endoscopic
ultrasound (EUS), positron emission tomography (PET),
laparoscopy, and thoracoscopy.
EUS is a key tool for locoregional staging although
it is not without its limitations. A recent meta-analysis
reported the sensitivity and specificity for detecting regional
lymph nodes at 0.80 and 0.70 respectively and 0.85 (sensitivity) and 0.96 (specificity) for coeliac nodes (4). Understaging may occur if the ultrasound is unable to traverse
the tumor, as neither the entire tumor nor the coeliac axis
nodes can be visualized. Furthermore, accuracy of TNM
classification is lower after neoadjuvant therapy due to the
inability to differentiate between fibrosis, inflammation, or
residual tumor. The sensitivity of CT and PET to detect
regional lymph nodes is lower (0.50 and 0.57) although
specificity is higher (0.83 and 0.85) (4). CT and PET are
useful modes to detect distant metastases, and the use of
combined CT-PET, providing both anatomical and functional information, is increasing. The rate of detection of
occult distal metastases in patients with esophageal cancer
by FDG-PET have been reported to be as high as 20% (4).
It remains unclear whether the optimal management
of adenocarcinomas arising at the gastroesophageal junction
(GOJ) should follow an esophageal or gastric treatment
paradigm. A consensus conference has defined GOJ tumors
as those with their centers arising within 5 cm proximal
and distal of the anatomical cardia and further classifies
GOJ tumors into three different types as outlined in Table 9.1
(5). The management of GOJ tumors is discussed with the
management of gastric cancers.

ESOPHAGEAL AND GASTRIC CANCERS
Esophageal Cancer
The histological profile of esophageal cancer has changed
over the past few decades. Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC)
is no longer the predominant histological subtype. Worldwide, the incidence of esophageal cancer is increasing.
Western countries in particular have seen a significant
rise in the incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma. The
long-term outcome for esophageal cancer remains poor
mainly as a result of distal relapse or advanced disease at
presentation. Five-year survival is less than 20% (1).

Epidemiology and Presentation
Squamous cell carcinoma is strongly associated with alcohol
consumption and smoking (2). Furthermore, these tumors
tend to occur in the middle and upper thirds of the esophagus. In contrast, esophageal adenocarcinoma, which typically
involves the distal esophagus, is associated with gastroesophageal reflux and the development Barrett’s metaplasia.
The risk of developing invasive adenocarcinoma in Barrett’s
metaplasia is approximately 0.5% per year (3). The role of
surveillance endoscopy in patients with Barrett’s metaplasia
remains unclear. Symptoms often present only in the later
stages of disease and include dysphagia, odynophagia,
regurgitation of food or fluids, retrosternal discomfort/
burning, anorexia, and weight loss.

Treatment Strategies
Localized Esophageal Cancer
There is no current standard treatment approach for localized esophageal cancer. Treatment options range from surgery alone or definitive chemoradiation (CRT) to the
neoadjuvant approaches combining induction chemotherapy with surgery, chemotherapy followed by CRT and
CRT with surgery. There is a paucity of studies supporting
the use of postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy or CRT.

158

Chapter 9:

Table 9.1 Siewert’s Classification of Gastroesophageal Junction
Adenocarcinoma (5)
Type I

Type II

Type III

Distal esophageal adenocarcinoma, usually arising from an
area with specialized intestinal metaplasia of the
esophagus (i.e., Barrett’s esophagus) and which may
infiltrate the gastroesophageal junction from above
True carcinoma of the cardia arising from the cardiac
epithelium or short segments with intestinal metaplasia
at the gastroesophageal junction; this entity is also often
referred to as “junctional carcinoma”
Subcardial gastric carcinoma which infiltrates the
gastroesophageal junction and distal esophagus from
below

Surgery. Surgical resection of esophageal primary
tumors remains the treatment of choice for the majority of
patients with localized esophageal cancer. Although
improved patient selection and refinement of surgical techniques has reduced perioperative mortality, with surgery
alone, five-year survival rates are only approximately 35%
(6). Multimodality therapy improves outcome; however, no
international consensus on treatment approach has been
reached.
Preoperative Radiotherapy. The updated systematic
review of preoperative radiotherapy in esophageal cancer
confirmed that any impact of preoperative radiotherapy is
modest (absolute improvement in survival of around 3–4%)
(7). The lack of new randomized controlled trials (RCTs)
comparing surgery to preoperative radiotherapy and surgery
reflects the acceptance of chemoradiation as a superior
treatment modality to radiation alone.
Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy. The two largest RCTs
evaluating neoadjuvant cisplatin and 5-FU in patients with
resectable or esophageal SCC or adenocarcinoma produced
conflicting results. The U.S. Intergroup-0113 study randomized 467 patients to surgery alone or three cycles of chemotherapy (cisplatin 100 mg/m2, days 1, 29, and 58, and 5-FU,
1000 mg/m2 by continuous infusion, days 1 to 5 of each
cycle) (8). Responders and those with stable disease could
receive a further two cycles of chemotherapy postoperatively
with a lower dose of cisplatin (75 mg/m2). No significant
difference in median survival was detected.
In contrast, the larger U.K. MRC OE02 study randomized 802 patients to surgery alone or two three-weekly cycles
of chemotherapy (cisplatin 80 mg/m2 day 1 and 5-FU,
1000 mg/m2 by continuous infusion days 1 to 4) (9). Nine
percent of patients in each group also received preoperative
radiotherapy. Overall survival (OS) was significantly better
in the group receiving chemotherapy (hazard ratio 0.79;
95% CI 0.67–0.93; p = 0.004) as was two-year survival (43%
vs. 34%). A further U.K. MRC trial (MAGIC) and the
French FNLCC/FFCD trial (see section on “Gastric and
Gastroesophageal Junction Cancers”) both included patients
with lower esophageal and GOJ adenocarcinomas and
resulted in improved OS from the addition of perioperative
chemotherapy (10,11).
It has been postulated that the lack of survival benefit
seen in the Intergroup study may be due to a combination
of treatment-related toxicity and a delay to definitive surgery
in patients not responding to neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

Gastrointestinal Cancer

159

A recent meta-analysis of eight RCTs (n = 1724) found the
hazard ratio (HR) for all cause mortality for neoadjuvant
chemotherapy was 0.90 (0.81–1.00; p = 0.05), corresponding
to a two-year absolute survival benefit of 7%. Chemotherapy did not have a significant effect on all cause mortality
for patients with SCC (HR 0.88; p = 0.12), however a significant benefit in esophageal adenocarcinoma was found
(HR 0.78; p = 0.014) (12).
Preoperative Chemoradiation. Several RCTs evaluating
neoadjuvant CRT have been conducted. The HR for all-cause
mortality in a meta-analysis of 10 RCTs comparing neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy to surgery alone (n = 1209) for
preoperative CRT compared to surgery alone was 0.81 (95%
CI 0.70–0.93; p = 0.002), corresponding to a 13% absolute
difference in survival at two years (12).
Direct comparison of these two preoperative
approaches has not occurred. A randomized phase III trial
comparing preoperative chemotherapy followed by surgery
to preoperative chemotherapy followed by CRT followed
by surgery closed early due to poor accrual, but reported
a trend toward improved survival in the CRT arm, albeit
with higher perioperative morbidity (13).
Definitive Radiation or Chemoradiation Versus Surgery.
A review of 19 randomized trials evaluating CRT versus
radiation for localized osophageal cancer, reported that as
definitive treatment, CRT alone results in superior disease
control rates (local and distant) and survival compared to
radiation alone (14). Ten of these trials included patients
with SCC only, whereas the remaining nine included both
SCC and esophageal adenocarcinomas.
Although surgery results in better locoregional control
rates compared to chemoradiation followed by surgery,
survival outcomes are similar. The French trial FFCD 9102
treated 444 patients with potentially resectable T3, N0-1,
M0 esophageal SCC (90%) or adenocarcinoma (10%) with
induction chemoradiation. Responders (n = 259) were then
randomized to further chemoradiotherapy or surgery.
Median survival for patients randomized to surgery was
17.7 months compared to 19.3 months for those who continued CRT. The trial reached its primary end point of
noninferiority for two-year survival (p = 0.03) (15). Toxicity
was higher with the combined modality emphasizing the
importance of careful patient selection. For selected patients
with SCC, chemoradiation alone is a viable treatment
option, with surgery reserved for patients with residual or
recurrent local disease.
Adjuvant Treatment. There is currently no evidence to
support the routine use of postoperative CRT, RT, or chemotherapy post esophagectomy. Adjuvant RT may improve
local control rates, but not survival and is associated with
increased toxicity. The postoperative management of GOJ
adenocarcinomas is discussed in the section on “Gastric
and Gastroesophageal Junction Cancers.”

Advanced Disease
Palliative treatment options for patients with locally
advanced inoperable or metastatic esophageal carcinoma
can range from local treatments (e.g., CRT, RT alone,
endoluminal stenting) to systemic chemotherapy. There is
currently no gold standard chemotherapy regimen for

160

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

advanced esophageal cancer. Chemotherapeutic options for
advanced esophageal cancer are discussed in the section
on “Gastric and Gastroesophageal Junction Cancers.”

Gastric and Gastroesophageal Junction Cancers
Gastric cancer is the fourth most common cancer worldwide
and is a leading cause of cancer-related death. The incidence
of gastric cancer varies widely according to geographic
location. Despite recent advances in the management of
localized disease, five-year survival remains poor in most
parts of the world (20%) with the exclusion of Japan where
five-year survival is approximately 60% (16).

Epidemiology
Approximately 90% of gastric cancers are adenocarcinomas,
with lymphoma, sarcoma, and other rare histological types
comprising the remaining 10%. This section will focus solely
on the management of gastric and GOJ adenocarcinoma.
Anatomically, gastric adenocarcinoma can be subdivided into
distal (noncardia) or proximal (cardia) tumors. Worldwide,
noncardia gastric cancers are the predominant subtype.
Risk factors for the development of noncardia gastric
cancer include Helicobacter pylori infection, diets rich in preserved foods and low in fresh fruits and vegetables, low
socioeconomic class, and smoking. Improved sanitation
leading to decreased incidence of H. pylori, increased availability of fresh fruit and vegetables, and decreasing consumption of preserved foods are thought to be the main
factors resulting in the decreased incidence of noncardia
gastric cancer in developed countries. On the other hand,
the incidence of cardia gastric adenocarcinomas have
increased or remained constant in developed countries. Risk
factors include male gender, Caucasian racial background,
obesity, smoking, and gastroesophageal reflux (16).
Mass screening programmes have been instituted in
countries such as Japan, where there is a particularly high
incidence of the disease, resulting in a high rate of diagnosis in the early stage of the disease and improved mortality rates; however this approach currently does not have
sufficient evidence to support worldwide usage (16).

Treatment Strategies
Gastric adenocarcinoma has a propensity for early dissemination and the majority of patients present with advanced
disease, except in countries where screening programmes
exist. For patients presenting with early stage disease, surgery is the standard of care, especially in Stage I and Stage
II disease. A number of perioperative and adjuvant strategies have been investigated to improve outcomes from
surgery alone. For patients of good performance status
who present with advanced disease, palliative chemotherapy improves survival and quality of life compared to best
supportive care (BSC).

Treatment of Early Stage Gastric and
Gastroesophageal Cancer
Surgery. At a minimum, staging of patients with
early stage disease includes endoscopy and CT chest,
abdomen, and pelvis. Endoscopic ultrasound can provide
further information regarding local (T and N) staging and

PET may be useful to detect occult metastases, but may
miss peritoneal disease and is often not readily available.
Diagnostic laparoscopy is essential in patients being considered for curative surgery and can identify occult metastases in 23% to 37% of patients and thus spare patients
from noncurative laparotomy (17).
The extent of resection to be performed remains
controversial. D1 resection involves dissection of perigastric lymph nodes whereas D2-4 dissection involves more
extensive en-bloc resection of lymph nodes outside the
perigastric area. The two largest randomized prospective
trials comparing D1 and D2 resections were conducted in
Holland and the United Kingdom. There was no difference in recurrence rates or five-year survival rates in
either trial, and increased hospital morbidity and perioperative mortality in patients undergoing D2 gastric
resections (18).
Adjuvant Chemotherapy. Several meta-analyses have
been published suggesting that there is a small benefit
associated with adjuvant chemotherapy; however the
majority of trials conducted have been small, and the chemotherapy regimens used have varied widely. More favorable results have been reported in Asian studies compared
with Western trials, but differences in tumor location,
prevalence of early stages, extent of preoperative staging
evaluation, and type of surgery must also be taken into
account.
S1 is an oral combination of tegafur, a prodrug of
fluorouracil, and 5-chloro-2,4-dihydropyrimidine and potassium oxonate. The recently published Adjuvant Chemotherapy Trial of TS-1 for Gastric Cancer (ACTS-GC)
randomized 1059 patients with stage II/III gastric cancer to
S-1 monotherapy versus surgery alone after curative D2
gastrectomy. Three-year OS was 80.1% in the S-1 group and
70.1% in the surgery only group (HR for death 0.68; 95%
CI 0.52–0.87; p = 0.0024) (19). Whether or not these results
can be translated to a non-Japanese patient population
remains to be seen.
Perioperative Chemotherapy. The U.K. Medical Research
Council Adjuvant Gastric Infusional Chemotherapy (MAGIC)
Trial randomized 503 patients with operable gastroesophageal cancer to perioperative chemotherapy with epirubicin,
cisplatin, and fluorouracil (ECF) with three cycles before
and after surgery, or to surgery alone. Perioperative chemotherapy resulted in tumor downstaging, and a significant
improvement in OS from 23% to 36% (HR for death 0.75;
95% CI 0.60–0.93; p = 0.009) and progression-free survival
(HR for progression 0.66; 95% CI 0.53–0.81; p < 0.001) (10).
There was no difference in the rates of operative complications
or mortality between the two arms.
A smaller French study using perioperative cisplatin
and 5-FU also reported improved disease-free survival
(DFS)(HR 0.65; 95% CI 0.48–0.89) and OS (HR for death
0.69; 95% CI 0.50–0.95; p = 0.02), thus confirming the benefits
of this multimodality approach (11).
Neoadjuvant administration of chemotherapy allows
early treatment of micrometastatic disease and results in
tumor downstaging. Recovery from major gastrointestinal
surgery may often preclude the use of postoperative treatment. Concerns that tumor progression may occur during
neoadjuvant chemotherapy or that operative morbidity may

Chapter 9:

be increased by this approach have not been substantiated.
Perioperative chemotherapy is now the standard of care in
Europe for potentially resectable gastric and gastroesophageal
junction tumors.
Adjuvant Chemoradiation. The U.S. Intergroup 0116
trial evaluated the combination of radiotherapy plus 5-FU/
leucovorin (LV) in resected gastric cancer versus surgery
alone. A significant OS benefit was observed in the chemoradiation arm (median OS: 36 vs. 27 months; p = 0.005)
alongside significantly increased local control rates (30 vs.
19 months; p = 0.001) (20). The majority of patients had D0
or D1 resections (54% and 36%, respectively). Based on the
results of this study, postoperative chemoradiation became
the standard of care in the United States for patients
undergoing surgery for gastric cancer.

Treatment of Advanced Gastric and
Gastroesophageal Junction Cancers
Although radiotherapy, endoscopic stenting, and even surgery may have a role in the treatment of advanced gastric
cancer in a minority of patients presenting with inoperable
disease (depending on symptomatology), systemic chemotherapy is the main mode of treatment available . Four
RCTs have demonstrated that chemotherapy is superior to
BSC for OS (increase in median survival from 3–4 months
to 7–10 months) and also reported improvements in quality
of life (21).

Table 9.2

Gastrointestinal Cancer

161

Many agents including 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), doxorubicin, mitomycin C, cisplatin, S1, taxanes, and irinotecan
have demonstrated single agent activity with response
rates around 20% to 30%. It is, however, recognized that
combination chemotherapy is superior to single agent
chemotherapy. Despite this, there is no international consensus on which chemotherapy regimen should be used
first-line. Table 9.2 outlines some of the key and recent
Phase III RCTs in advanced gastric cancer. Across much
of Europe, ECF has been the most commonly used regimen
since it was demonstrated to have superior efficacy compared to FAMTX, which had been the reference regimen
in the 1990s. In this study, ECF had a higher response rate
and OS compared to FAMTX (45% vs. 21%; 8.9 vs. 5.7 months
at 1 year respectively) (22). Cisplatin/5-FU (CF) has also
been commonly used. Phase III RCTs directly comparing
ECF to CF have not been conducted. A recent meta-analysis
has demonstrated three-drug regimens containing 5-FU,
anthracyclines, and cisplatin to be superior to two-drug
regimens containing either cisplatin/5-FU or anthracycline/
5-FU in terms of OS (23).
Two recent Phase III RCTs have demonstrated that
oral capecitabine can replace infused 5-FU in the treatment
of advanced gastric cancer without compromising efficacy.
REAL-2 randomized 1002 patients in a 2 × 2 factorial design
to show noninferiority in OS for both capecitabine compared
to infused 5-FU and oxaliplatin compared to cisplatin (24).
The HR for death was 0.86 (95% CI 0.80–0.99) for the
capecitabine regimens compared to the 5-FU regimens. The

Selected Phase III Studies in Advanced Gastric Cancer Comparing Chemotherapy Regimens

Author (Ref.)

Treatment arms

Overall survival

Number of
patients

Median (months)
Webb et al. (22)
Waters et al. (155)
Ross et al. (156)
Dank et al. (157)
Van Cutsem et al. (27)
Kang et al. (25)
Boku et al. (30)

Koizumi et al. (31)
Cunningham et al. (24)

Al-Batran et al. (26)
Imamura et al. (32)
Ajani et al. (154)

p Value for overall
survival

1 year (%)

FAMTX
ECF
MCF
ECF
Irinotecan/5-FU/folinic acid
Cisplatin/5FU
DCF
5-FU/cisplatin
5-FU/cisplatin
Capecitabine/cisplatin
5-FU
Irinotecan/cisplatin

130
126
285
289
170
163
221
224
156
160
234
236

6.1
8.7
8.7
9.4
9.0
8.7
9.2
8.6
9.5
10.5
10.8
12.3

22
37
32.7
40.2
NR
NR
40
32
NR
NR
44.0
52.5

S1
S1/cisplatin
S1
ECF
EOF
ECX
EOX
5-FU/leucovorin/oxaliplatin
5-FU/leucovorin/cisplatin
S1/irinotecan
S1
S1/cisplatin
5-FU/cisplatin

234
148
150
263
245
250
244
112
106
164
162
521
508

11.4
13.0
11.0
9.9
9.3
9.9
11.2
10.7
8.8
12.8
10.5
8.6
7.9

47.9
54.1
46.7
37.7
40.4
40.8
46.8
45
40
52.0
44.9
NR
NR

0.0005
0.315
0.53
0.02
0.27

0.055 (5-FU vs.
irinotecan/cisplatin)
0.034 (5-FU vs. S1)
0.04
0.61 (ECF vs. EOF)
0.39 (ECF vs. ECX)
0.02 (ECF vs. EOX)
NS
0.23
0.1983

Abbreviations: DCF, docetaxel/cisplatin/5-FU; ECF, epirubicin/cisplatin/5-FU; ECX, epirubicin/cisplatin/capecitabine; EOF, epirubicin/oxaliplatin/5-FU; EOX, epirubicin/
oxaliplatin/capecitabine; FAMTX, 5-FU/doxorubicin/methotrexate; MCF, mitomycin/cisplatin/5-FU; NS, not significant.

162

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

ML17032 study compared capecitabine/cisplatin with
cisplatin/5-FU, again with noninferiority as the primary
end point (25). Again the primary end point of noninferiority was met (HR 0.81). The results of these two trials
confirmed that capecitabine can be used as a substitute for
infused 5-FU, thus avoiding the inconvenience and potential
complications of central venous catheters.
REAL-2 also demonstrated noninferiority of oxaliplatin compared to cisplatin. In the secondary analysis, EOX
had longer OS compared to ECF (HR for death 0.80; 95%
CI; 0.66–0.97; p = 0.02) as well as a more favorable toxicity
profile (24). A smaller study of 220 patients randomized to
infused 5-FU plus LV and oxaliplatin (FLO) or infused
5-FU plus LV and cisplatin (FLP) reported reduced toxicity
and a trend toward improved progression-free survival
(PFS) with the combination of FLO compared to FLP. An
unplanned subgroup analysis of patients aged >65 noted
that treatment with FLO resulted in significant improvements in RR, TTF, and PFS as well as improved OS (13.9
vs. 7.2 months) for this age group (26).
The ECF regimen can therefore be modified to EOX
by substituting capecitabine for infused 5-FU and oxaliplatin
for cisplatin, resulting in a combination at least as efficacious as ECF and with a more convenient mode of administration and an acceptable toxicity profile. EOX is currently
being used as the reference regimen in the U.K. REAL-3
trial, which is evaluating first-line use of EOX with or
without the EGFR-inhibitor panitumumab.
V325 was a Phase II/III study evaluating the role
of docetaxel in combination with cisplatin in untreated
advanced gastric cancer. In the Phase II study, docetaxel
in combination with cisplatin and infused 5-FU (DCF)
resulted in a higher over all response rate (ORR) than
docetaxel in combination with cisplatin (43% vs. 26%) and
was therefore selected as the experimental arm for the
Phase III study which randomized 445 patients to DCF or
the doublet CF. A modest, but significant improvement in
OS (9.2 vs. 8.6 months; p = 0.020) was seen with the addition
of docetaxel (27). This, however, occurred at the cost of
significantly more toxicity, including febrile neutropenia.
Furthermore, the study population was younger and fitter
than the average patient with advanced gastric cancer, with
a median age of 55 years and Karnofsky performance status
of 80% to 100% in the majority of patients prior to commencing treatment.
Nevertheless, docetaxel clearly has activity in combination with CF combinations. Phase III RCTs directly comparing
DCF to ECF have not yet been conducted, so neither regimen
has proven to be superior to the other. A Phase II Swiss trial
compared DCF to ECF and reported a much higher rate of
complicated neutropenia (41% vs. 18%) (28). Alternative docetaxel dosing regimens have been evaluated in Phase II trials
with improved toxicity profiles and similar efficacy, but
require further evaluation in Phase III trials (29).
In Japan, S1 is commonly used first-line in advanced
gastric cancer. A three-arm RCT comparing 5-FU to S1 and
irinotecan plus cisplatin met its primary end point of noninferiority for OS of S1 compared to 5-FU. The response
rate for single agent S1 was 28% and median survival was
10.2 months (30). The SPIRITS trial evaluated the addition
of cisplatin to S1. Three hundred and five patients were
randomized to S1 or S1 plus cisplatin, with a primary end
point of OS. The combination of S1 and cisplatin was

significantly better than S1-alone in terms of OS (13.0 vs.
11.0 months HR for death 0.77; 95% CI 0.61–0.98; p = 0.04)
and PFS (6.0 vs. 4.0 months) (31). The combination of
irinotecan and S1 compared to S1 alone has also been
investigated in the Phase III IRI-S trial reported at GI ASCO
2008. Although the combination treatment arm had a higher
response rate (41.5% vs. 26.9%; p = 0.035), no statistically
significant difference in OS has been observed to date (32).
Outside Japan, (mainly USA, Europe and South America),
the multinational First-Line Advanced Gastric Cancer Study
(FLAGS) randomized patients to fluorouracil/platinum or
S1/platinum and failed to demonstrate superior survival
with the S1 combination (154).
Several Phase II trials have investigated irinotecan in
combination with cisplatin (IC) or LV and 5-FU (ILF and
FOLFIRI). In the Phase II part of V-306, ILF was superior
to IC in terms of OS, TTP, and RR and was therefore
selected as the experimental treatment for the Phase III
component of the study. The Phase III study comparing
ILF to CF found a nonsignificant trend toward improved
TTP (5.0 vs. 4.2 months) and no difference in OS between
the two arms (21).
Despite chemosensitivity to many first-line therapeutic
regimens, the duration of benefit derived by patients remains
limited to months. There is no current standard second-line
chemotherapy option for patients with advanced gastric or
GOJ tumors. Chemotherapy regimens demonstrating activity in Phase II trials include irinotecan in combination with
cisplatin or fluoropyrimidines, FOLFOX, docetaxel alone or
in combination with oxaliplatin, and paclitaxel alone or in
combination with platinum agents (21).
Key Points
•
•
•

•

In esophageal cancer, the addition of neoadjuvant
chemotherapy or CRT results in superior outcomes to surgery
alone (Fig. 9.1)
CRT alone may be a treatment option for patients with early
stage esophageal SCC or esophageal adenocarcinoma deemed
not suitable for resection (Fig. 9.1)
Perioperative chemotherapy for GOJ and gastric
adenocarcinoma results in superior disease-free and overall
survival and is now considered the standard of care in Europe.
Adjuvant CRT is an alternative treatment option and is the
current standard in North America (Fig. 9.1)
Palliative chemotherapy prolongs survival and improves quality
of life and should be offered to patients with adequate
performance status

PANCREATIC CANCER
Cancer of the exocrine pancreas is the one of the commonest causes of cancer-related death in the Western world.
Due to the universally poor outcome of pancreatic cancer,
incidence and mortality rates are similar. Five-year survival
rates are dismal, and rarely exceed 5% (33).

Epidemiology
The incidence of pancreatic cancer increases with age with
the highest incidence in the seventh and eighth decades of
life. A clear association with smoking has been identified
in several studies and a recent meta-analysis reported a 75%

Chapter 9:

Esophageal
squamous cell carcinoma

Definitive chemoradiation

163

Gastro-esophageal
junction or gastric
adenocarcinoma

Esophageal
adenocarcinoma

Pre-operative
chemoradiation

Gastrointestinal Cancer

Pre-operative
chemotherapy

Surgery

Surgery

+/–

Surgery for residual or
recurrent disease

Figure 9.1

Post-operative
chemotherapy

Post-operative
chemoradiation

Algorithm for the perioperative management of localized esophageal, gastroesophageal junction, and gastric cancer.

increased risk in developing pancreatic cancer in smokers
compared to nonsmokers (34). Other potential risk factors
include chronic pancreatitis and diabetes mellitus.

Diagnosis and Staging
Common presenting symptoms include abdominal pain,
weight loss, and obstructive jaundice. Confirmation of
the diagnosis is based on radiological and histological
appearance.
Accurate staging of pancreatic cancer is vital to plan
appropriate management and avoid unnecessary morbidity.
Commonly used imaging modalities for the diagnosis and
staging of pancreatic cancer include abdominal ultrasound,
CT, and EUS. In experienced hands, EUS has approximately
95% sensitivity for detecting pancreatic cancer and is particularly useful in determining the characteristics of small
lesions (33). Furthermore, EUS-FNA can provide histological confirmation of diagnosis in patients deemed unresectable, or with potentially resectable lesions of uncertain
etiology. Despite conclusive evidence, many clinicians will
choose to avoid percutaneous biopsy of resectable lesions
due to a theoretical risk of needle track and intraperitoneal
seeding (33).
Further staging information may be acquired via
staging laparoscopy and additional imaging modalities
including endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography
(ERCP), which has the added advantage of enabling therapeutic management of obstructive jaundice; MRI; magnetic
resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP); and PET with
or without CT.
Although cancer associated antigen 19-9 (CA 19-9) is
frequently elevated in pancreatic cancer, both sensitivity

and specificity are low. Elevated levels can occur in benign
disorders as well as in other malignancies. CA 19-9 level
is not recommended as a screening test, although it may
be useful to monitor response to treatment in locally
advanced or unresectable pancreatic cancer or to prompt
further investigations to detect recurrence in patients who
have undergone primary resection.

Treatment Strategies
Treatment of Resectable Pancreatic Cancer
Approximately 10% to 15% of patients will proceed to potentially curative pancreatic surgery; however median survival
for these patients is still limited to 11 to 20 months and fiveyear survival rates from surgery alone is less than 25% (33).
Both adjuvant chemoradiation and chemotherapy have been
evaluated as potential strategies to improve surgical outcome.
Results of selected trials are represented in Table 9.3.
Adjuvant Chemoradiation. The GITSG trial comparing
bolus 5-FU plus split course radiation followed by two
years of 5-FU to observation was the first RCT demonstrating the benefit of adjuvant therapy (35). The study
closed early due to poor accrual; however due to a statistically significant improvement in survival, adjuvant CRT
was adopted as standard therapy in the United States. This
approach has not been incorporated into routine practice
in Europe as two subsequent European studies (EORTC
and ESPAC-1) failed to find a statistically significant advantage in favor of adjuvant CRT. In fact ESPAC-1 found a
trend toward worse survival with the addition of CRT (HR
for death 1.28; 95% CI 0.99–1.66; p = 0.05) (36). A subsequent
meta-analysis did not find a significant effect on risk of
death with adjuvant CRT and subgroup analysis favored

164

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 9.3

Selected Phase III Randomized Controlled Trials of Adjuvant Therapy in Pancreatic Cancer

Study/author (Ref.)
Adjuvant chemoradiotherapy
GITSG (35)

EORTC (158)
ESPAC 1 (36)
Adjuvant chemotherapy
ESPAC 1 (36)
Kosuge et al. (39)
CONKO-001(38)a
RTOG 97-04 (40)

Kosuge et al. (39)b

Treatment
Bolus 5-FU + RT followed by
maintenance 5-FU for 2 years
Observation
5-FU CI + RT
Observation
Bolus 5-FU/LV + RT
No chemoradiation
5-FU/LV
No chemotherapy
Cisplatin/5-FU
Observation
Gemcitabine
Observation
CRT + gemcitabine
CRT + 5-FU
Pancreatic head tumors
CRT + gemcitabine
CRT + 5-FU
Gemcitabine
Observation

Number of patients

Overall survival (months)

p Value

21

21

0.035

22
110
108
145
147

11
24.5
19
15.9
14.8

147
142
45
44
179
175
221
230

20.1
15.5
12.5
15.8
22.8
20.2
18
16

187
201
60
58

20.5
16.9
22.31
18.36

0.208
0.05

0.009
NS
0.005
NS
0.09
0.29

a

DFS 13.3 versus 6.9 months, p <0.001. DFS was the primary end point for CONKO-001.
DFS 11.44 versus 4.97 months, p = 0.01.
Abbreviations: 5-FU, 5-Fluorouracil; CI, continuous infusion; CRT, chemoradiation; LV, leucovorin; NS, not significant; RT, radiation.
b

adjuvant CRT in patients with positive resection margins,
although the confidence intervals crossed unity (37).
The definitive role of CRT as adjuvant treatment for
pancreatic cancer remains uncertain. The ESPAC-1, GITSG,
and EORTC studies administered CRT that is probably
inferior to modern regimens which utilize infused 5-FU and
single course radiation. Furthermore, in the GITSG trial
patients received maintenance 5-FU in addition to CRT, and
it is impossible to determine which component of treatment
is responsible for the observed effect. Prospective RCTs comparing modern CRT regimens to nonradiation-containing
regimens have not been conducted. Whether gemcitabine
and/or other systemic agents will succeed 5-FU in chemoradiation regimens also remains to be seen.

single course radiation) (40). There was no significant
difference in OS or DFS for all patients. A nonsignificant
trend toward improved survival was noted for patients
with pancreatic head tumors.
In the 2005 meta-analyses of adjuvant therapy for
pancreatic cancer adjuvant chemotherapy resulted in a 25%
reduction in the risk of death (HR = 0.75; p = 0.001) and
this improvement was maintained with the inclusion of the
CONKO-001 data (24% reduction in the risk of death)
(37,41). Adjuvant chemotherapy with 5-FU or gemcitabine
confers significant improvements in disease-free and/or
OS. The results of ESPAC-3 are awaited to determine the
best agent to use in this setting.

Adjuvant Chemotherapy. A number of studies have
evaluated the role of single agent and combination adjuvant chemotherapy. The ESPAC-1 reported a statistically
significant OS advantage for adjuvant bolus 5-FU/LV and
this treatment regimen has been compared to adjuvant
gemcitabine in the ESPAC-3 trial which completed accrual
for pancreatic cancer in December 2006.
The CONKO-001 study evaluated six months of gemcitabine versus observation. This study met its primary end
point of a significant improvement in DFS (13.3 vs.
6.9 months; p < 0.001) and also demonstrated an OS benefit
(22.8 vs. 20.2 months; p = 0.005) translating into an estimated
five-year survival of 21% versus 9.0% (38). Kosuge et al.
also recently reported a significant improvement in DFS
for three months of adjuvant gemcitabine compared to
observation (11.44 vs. 4.97 months; p = 0.01) but not OS
(22.3 vs. 18.4 months) (39).
The RTOG 9704 trial compared gemcitabine to 5-FU
when given both pre- and post-CRT (infused 5-FU and

Treatment of Locally Advanced
Pancreatic Cancer
The optimal management of patients with locally advanced
pancreatic cancer is yet to be determined. A 2007 metaanalysis of combined radiation/combined modality therapy
for locally advanced pancreatic cancer found a survival
advantage for chemoradiation compared to radiation alone
but not for chemoradiation followed by chemotherapy (42).
A RCT comparing gemcitabine chemotherapy to cisplatin5FU based chemoradiation followed by maintenance gemcitabine chemotherapy stopped prematurely after a significant
OS advantage was found for upfront gemcitabine compared
to combined modality therapy (13 vs. 8.6 months, p = 0.03)
(43). In contrast, the E4201 trial reported a modest OS
improvement for gemcitabine-based chemoradiation compared to gemcitabine alone (11.0 vs. 9.2 months; HR 0.574;
p = 0.034) (44). These results must be interpreted with caution however, since the trial closed early after recruiting
only 74 out of a planned 316 patients due to poor accrual.

Chapter 9:

Furthermore, there was no difference in RR or PFS between
the two treatment arms and more grade 3/4 toxicity in the
chemoradiation arm.
A newer approach currently under evaluation is the
administration of initial chemotherapy followed by CRT in
the absence of disease progression. Attempts to refine
chemoradiation regimens are also ongoing. The role of
neoadjuvant therapy in an attempt to downstage unresectable tumors remains unknown and should be limited to
the context of clinical trials.

Treatment of Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
The majority of patients with pancreatic cancer present
with advanced (inoperable or metastatic) disease. Prognosis
is extremely poor with a median survival, if untreated, in
the order of three to four months. The aims of treatment
are tumor control, to improve symptoms and to maintain
and improve quality of life (QOL).
The benefits of palliative chemotherapy in addition
to BSC have been demonstrated in a number of studies. In
a 2007 meta-analysis, chemotherapy resulted in a 36%
improvement in survival compared with BSC (HR = 0.64;
95% CI 0.42–0.98) (45).
Single agent gemcitabine has been the accepted
standard of care for advanced pancreatic cancer after it
was demonstrated to have superior survival and clinical benefit to 5-FU in a single RCT (46). Gemcitabine (1000 mg/m2
over 30 minutes weekly × 7 followed by one week’s rest,
and then weekly × 3 every 4 weeks) was superior to 5-FU
(600 mg/m2 weekly) in terms of clinical benefit response
(23.8% compared with 4.8% p = 0.0022) and median survival
(5.65 and 4.41 months, p = 0.0025). Approaches to improving
the efficacy of gemcitabine have included utilizing fixed
dose regimens (FDR) as well as combining gemcitabine
with other systemic agents.
Gemcitabine requires initial phosphorylation by deoxycytidine kinase to gemcitabine monophosphate, and subsequent phosphorylation to gemcitabine diphosphate and
gemcitabine triphosphate, the active form of the drug (47).
Deoxycytidine kinase has saturable kinetics and it has been
demonstrated that infusing gemcitabine at 10 mg/m2/min
achieves steady state plasma levels of 20 μmol/L thereby
maximizing the rate of formation of gemcitabine triphosphate. Despite initial promising results from Phase II studies,
the three-arm Phase III E6201 study failed to reach its primary end point of a 33% or more difference in survival using
either FDR gemcitabine or FDR gemcitabine with oxaliplatin
compared to standard gemcitabine therapy (48).
Gemcitabine has been combined with several other
chemotherapy agents including fluoropyrimidines (5-FU and
capecitabine), platinum agents (oxaliplatin and cisplatin),
docetaxel, topoisomerase inhibitors (irinotecan and exatecan),
and pemetrexed. Results have been largely disappointing,
with few regimens resulting in significant improvements
in OS. Gemcitabine combined with cisplatin, epirubicin,
and 5-FU resulted in statistically significant higher OS compared to gemcitabine alone (5.4 vs. 3.3 months; p = 0.0033),
however the median OS for each arm was less than the
expected median OS for gemcitabine alone (49). This regimen
also resulted in significantly higher rates of hematological
toxicity. Although gemcitabine combined with oxaliplatin
(Gemox) does not appear to improve OS (9.1 vs. 7.1 months;

Gastrointestinal Cancer

165

p = 0.04), the significant improvement in RR (26.8% vs.
17.3%; p = 0.04), DFS (5.8 vs. 3.7 months; p = 0.04), and
clinical benefit (38.2% vs. 26.9%; p = 0.03) compared to
gemcitabine alone indicated that the Gemox regimen
represents an active and reasonable treatment option for
advanced pancreatic cancer, albeit at the cost of greater
hematological, GI, and neurological toxicity (50).
Two Phase III RCTs comparing gemcitabine alone or
combined with capecitabine (GemCap) have been conducted
in Europe. Updated results from the U.K. NCRI (National
Cancer Research Institute) GemCap study report statistically
significant improvements in RR (19.4% vs. 12.4%) and PFS
(HR 0.78; p = 0.004) and a trend toward improved OS (7.1
vs. 6.2 months, HR 0.86; p = 0.08) with a good toxicity
profile (51). The second study did not find a significant
difference in OS, RR, or PFS between the two arms (52).
A post hoc analysis, however, found a significant prolongation in OS (10.1 vs. 7.1 months, p = 0.014) for patients with
KPS 90-100. There was an excess of early disease-related
deaths amongst poor PS patients in the GemCap arm,
which may account for the lack of significant difference for
all patients between the treatment arms. Meta-analysis of
the three RCTs comparing GemCap with gemcitabine alone
(total 935 patients) indicates a significant OS advantage for
combination chemotherapy (HR 0.85; 95% CI 0.76–0.99)
with no significant heterogeneity.
Targeted Therapies. The efficacy of molecular targeted
agents in combination with gemcitabine has also been investigated. Randomized phase III studies have been conducted
comparing gemcitabine to gemcitabine combined with marimastat, tipifarnib, erlotinib, cetuximab, and bevacizumab.
Results are summarized in Table 9.4.
In the NCIC CTG PA.3 study, erlotinib combined with
gemcitabine conferred a small, albeit statistically significant,
OS benefit compared to gemcitabine alone (6.24 vs. 5.91
months, HR 0.82, p = 0.038) (53). Although many would
argue that the actual clinical benefit of this combination
is minimal, on the basis of this single RCT, erlotinib was
approved for use combined with gemcitabine in the first-line
setting. Preliminary results of two Phase III studies presented
at ASCO 2007 comparing gemcitabine to gemcitabine/bevacizumab, and gemcitabine/cetuximab have not demonstrated
a significant improvement in OS, PFS, or RR.
AVITA, a double blind, placebo controlled study of
gemcitabine and erlotinib with or without bevacizumab also
failed to result in an improvement in OS (6.0 vs. 7.1 months
with the addition of bevacizumab, HR 0.89; p = 0.2087)
although a small improvement in median PFS was observed
(3.6 vs. 4.6 months, HR 0.73; p = 0.0002) (54).
Second-Line Chemotherapy. There is no standard secondline treatment for advanced pancreatic cancer. Several regimens have been evaluated including 5-FU/LV, irinotecan,
rubitecan, paclitaxel, gemcitabine plus oxaliplatin, oxaliplatin plus fluoropyrimidines, capecitabine plus erlotinib,
and raltitrexed plus oxaliplatin/or irinotecan; however few
randomized Phase III studies have been completed.
CONKO 003 initially compared BSC to oxaliplatin/
5-FU/LV (OFF regimen) in patients who had progressed
after first-line gemcitabine therapy. Results after recruiting
46 patients reported a significant improvement in median
OS for OFF (4.8 vs. 2.3 months, p = 0.0077) (55). The trial

166

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 9.4

Selected Phase III Randomized Controlled Trials of Gemcitabine and Targeted Therapies in Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer

Study/author (Ref.)

Treatment arms

Moore et al. (159)

Gemcitabine/marimastat
Gemcitabine
Gemcitabine/tipifarnib
Gemcitabine
Gemcitabine/erlotinib
Gemcitabine
Gemcitabine/cetuximab
Gemcitabine
Gemcitabine/bevacizumab
Gemcitabine
Gemcitabine/erlotinib
Gemcitabine/erlotinib/
bevacizumab

Van Cutsem et al. (160)
NCIC CTG
PA.3 (53)
SWOG
S0205 (161)
CALGB
80303 (162)
AVITA (54)

DFS/PFS median
(months)

p Value

Median survival
(months)

p Value

Response rate
(%)

1.68
3.5
3.73
3.63
3.75
3.55
3.5
3.0
4.9
4.7
4.6
3.6

0.001

3.74
6.59
6.43
6.06
6.24
5.91
6.4
5.9
5.8
6.1
7.1
6.0

<0.001

<1
5
6
8
48.9
41.2
12
14
11
10
13.5
8.6

0.72
0.004
0.058
0.99
0.0002

0.75
0.038
0.14
0.78
0.2087

Abbreviation: DFS/PFS, disease free survival/progression free survival.

was subsequently modified to use 5-FU/LV as the control
arm. Compared to 5-FU/LV, OFF resulted in a significant
improvement in both PFS (13 vs. 9 weeks; p = 0.012) and
OS (26 vs. 13 weeks; p = 0.014) (56). OFF therefore represents a regimen with clinically significant activity for
patients who have progressed after first-line gemcitabine.
Other Treatment Options. Palliative stenting, bypass
surgery, radiotherapy, nerve plexus blocks, and intrathecal
infusions may also provide symptomatic relief in selected
patients.

cause. The combination of HBV and HCV increases the
risk of developing HCC.
The incidence of HCC is rising and it is the third
most common cause of cancer-related death worldwide.
The prognosis is poor because of high rates of recurrence,
late stage presentation, and limited treatment options. Fiveyear survival is around 5% and OS for patients diagnosed
with unresectable disease is around six months. Although
there is no evidence of survival benefit with early diagnosis, many groups now advocate six monthly surveillance
ultrasound and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) in patients at high
risk of developing the disease (57).

Key Points
•
•
•
•
•

•
•

For patients with resected pancreatic cancer, adjuvant
chemotherapy with 5-FU is the current European standard of
care with gemcitabine emerging as a potential alternative
The definitive role of adjuvant chemoradiation remains uncertain
amongst European oncologists. In North America, adjuvant
chemoradiation is the standard postoperative approach
Palliative chemotherapy results in improved survival and quality
of life
Erlotinib combined with gemcitabine confers a superior, although
modest OS improvement compared to gemcitabine monotherapy
The combination of capecitabine with gemcitabine is well
tolerated and results in improved PFS and response rate
compared to gemcitabine monotherapy. In addition, a
meta-analysis demonstrates a significant improvement in OS
for the combination therapy
The combination of oxaliplatin with gemcitabine results in
improved PFS, radiological and clinical response rates compared
to gemcitabine monotherapy, but may be less well tolerated
Oxaliplatin/5-FU/LV is an active second-line treatment regimen
after failure of gemcitabine therapy

HEPATOBILIARY CANCERS
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Epidemiology
Although hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) can occur in
patients without known risk factors, the majority of cases
are associated with hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C
virus (HCV), alcoholic liver disease, and cirrhosis of any

Diagnosis and Staging
Diagnosis can often be made without biopsy by the
combination of liver imaging (CT scan and MRI) and
serum markers (AFP). CT of the thorax is also required to
complete staging.

Treatment Strategies
Treatment of Localized Operable Disease
Surgery. For a selected minority of patients presenting with early stage disease, surgical resection or liver
transplantation (LT) may be viable and potentially curative
treatment options. Factors influencing suitability for surgical resection include adequate liver function (Child-Pugh
classification A), anatomic location, size, and number of
lesions. Although no RCTs comparing outcomes of resection to transplantation have been conducted, LT may result
in superior outcomes in terms of both recurrence and survival and with careful patient selection, five-year survival
for LT can exceed 70% (58). Surgical resection along with
transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) and radiofrequency ablation (RFA) can be used as bridging treatments
while awaiting a suitable donor liver.
Local Therapies. Local ablative techniques using percutaneous ethanol injection or thermal ablation (RFA or
microwave therapy) results in complete destruction in 90%
of small lesions (≤3 cm). Recent RCTs suggest thermal

Chapter 9:

ablation to be superior to percutaneous ethanol injection
for both recurrence and survival (59).
Adjuvant Therapy. There is no standard adjuvant
treatment for HCC postresection and reports from studies
are often contradictory. In a meta-analysis of preoperative
or postoperative transarterial chemotherapy, systemic
chemotherapy, or a combination of systemic and transarterial
chemotherapy, only postoperative transarterial chemotherapy
was likely to improve survival and decrease recurrence risk
(60). Adjuvant interferon (IFN-α) has been evaluated in a
number of RCTs which have reported improved local recurrence and/or survival rates. However, this treatment is often
poorly tolerated and current evidence is not sufficient to
warrant routine use of adjuvant IFN-α (59). Retinoids following resection or local ablation were associated with a
significant lower incidence of recurrence in a randomized
control trial (RCT) compared with placebo (27% vs. 45%) and
are undergoing further evaluation (59).

Treatment of Inoperable Disease
Arterial embolization techniques, particularly with chemotherapy (TACE) has been the main treatment option for
patients with advanced HCC. A recent review confirmed that
while TACE improves survival for patients with advanced
HCC and is the most preferred embolization prodecure, there
is no evidence that TACE has a survival advantage compared
to transarterial embolization alone (61). This question is
currently being evaluated in the U.K. NCRN TACE trial.
The discovery of hormonal receptors on HCC lines
has not led to further therapeutic options. A meta-analysis
of tamoxifen in HCC found no effect on median survival
or tumor response rate (62). Several chemotherapeutic
agents including doxorubicin, fluoropyrimidines, cisplatin,
etoposide, epirubicin, oxaliplatin, gemcitabine, and irinotecan
have been investigated either as single agents or in combination. Results have been disappointing with response
rates of less than 20% and little (if any) impact on survival,
often at the cost of significant toxicity (59).
Sorafenib, a multitargeted orally active small molecule
tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) has emerged as the new
reference standard treatment option for advanced HCC.
The Phase III SHARP trial randomized 602 patients with
untreated, advanced HCC to sorafenib 400 mg twice daily
or placebo. Treatment with sorafenib resulted in a 44%
improvement in OS compared to placebo (median survival
10.7 vs. 7.9 months; HR 0.69; p = 0.0077) as well as improved
time to progression (5.5 vs. 2.8 months; p = 0.000007). Disease
control rate was also improved (43% vs. 32%), although
actual overall response rates were low (2.3%) (63).

Biliary Tract Cancers
Cancers of the gallbladder and cholangiocarcinomas are
rare and are generally associated with a poor prognosis.
Cholangiocarcinomas are subclassified according to anatomical
site intrahepatic (10%), perihilar (50–60%), and distal/
extrahepatic (20–30%) (64).

Epidemiology
Identified risk factors for biliary cancers include chronic
cholelithiasis, primary sclerosing cholangitis, choledochal
cysts, Caroli’s disease, bile duct adenomas, smoking,

Gastrointestinal Cancer

167

thorotrast exposure, HCV infection, parasitic biliary infestation, and chronic typhoid carrier state (64).

Treatment Strategies
Treatment of Localized Biliary Tract Cancers
The only potentially curative treatment is surgery, however
few patients present with disease amenable to complete
resection. Radical/extended cholecystectomy is recommended in patients with localized gallbladder cancers with
the exception of T1a tumors, who have five-year survival
over 85% with simple cholecystectomy alone (65). Patients
with intrahepatic lesions require partial hepatectomy
whereas distal lesions require pancreatoduodenectomy.
Negative tumor margins and the absence of lymph node
involvement are known predictors of five-year survival
which is in the order of 20% to 40%.
Although adjuvant CRT or chemotherapy may confer
a survival benefit or improve local control rates because of
the rarity of the disease, there are few RCT trials to allow
definite conclusions to be drawn. Adjuvant therapy remains
the subject of ongoing trials.

Treatment of Advanced Disease
For patients of good performance status, palliative treatment
options include chemotherapy, radiation, and photodynamic
therapy (PDT). Biliary drainage, preferably by endoscopic
stenting can provide good symptomatic relief. Metallic stents
are preferable to plastic stents in patients with a prognosis
longer than six months (64). PDT as an alternative or in
addition to stenting has been evaluated in two RCTs and
was found to result in superior OS; 630 versus 210 days for
PDT compared to BSC (p = 0.0109) and 493 versus 98 days
for PDT plus stent compared to stent alone (p = 0.001) (66).
Chemotherapy appears to confer benefits for both
quality of life and survival over BSC, although improvements in OS are modest. Several agents have been evaluated
including fluoropyrimidines, anthracyclines, gemcitabine,
platinum agents, docetaxel, and irinotecan; however, few
randomized Phase III trials have been conducted. A 2007pooled analysis of 104 published trials concluded that gemcitabine combined with platinum agents was the most active
regimen (67). ABC-02 is an ongoing U.K. NCRI randomized
Phase III trial directly comparing gemcitabine to gemcitabine/cisplatin in advanced biliary cancers.
Key Points
Hepatocellular carcinoma
• Hepatic resection and liver transplantation are potentially curative
treatment options for selected patients with localized HCC
• There is no standard adjuvant treatment for HCC
• Transarterial chemoembolization improves survival in patients
with inoperable HCC
• Sorafenib improves OS and TTP in patients with advanced HCC
and has emerged as the new reference treatment option
Biliary tract cancer
•
•
•

Surgery is the primary treatment modality for localized disease
The role of adjuvant treatment is currently being evaluated
There is no standard chemotherapy regimen for advanced
biliary tract cancer Active enrolment into clinical trials is
essential to establish best practice

168

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

NEUROENDOCRINE TUMORS AND CANCER
OF THE SMALL BOWEL
Gastroenteropancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors
Gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors are a rare
entity, accounting for approximately 2% of all GI tumors.
The incidence of carcinoid tumors has been rising and is
now around 2.5 to 5 cases per 100,000 (68).
Over 90% of neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) arise in
the gastrointestinal tract. Other sites of presentation include
the bronchus and gonads, although they can arise in almost
any organ. Neuroendocrine tumors s are traditionally classified according to their embryological site of origin
(Foregut–Bronchi, stomach, pancreas, gallbladder, duodenum; midgut–jejunum, ileum, appendix, right colon;
hindgut–left colon, rectum). However, this mode of classification has largely been replaced by the WHO classification of gastroenteropancreatic endocrine tumors, which
classifies according to predicted clinical behavior depending on histopathologic features. Carcinoid tumors, arising
from enterochromaffin cells, account for the majority of all
NETS and most frequently occur in the gastrointestinal
tract.
A recently published study of patients in England
and Wales reported five-year survival rates of 45.9%
and 56.5% for all NETs and well-differentiated NETs
respectively (69).

Diagnosis and Staging
Symptoms relating to NETs vary widely from no symptomatology, to symptoms relating to anatomical location
(abdominal pain, mechanical obstruction, bleeding) or relating to secretion of neuroamines and peptides including
5-hydroxytryptophan (5HT), gastrin, insulin, glucagons,
somatostatin, histamine, and vasoactive intestinal peptide
(VIP). Of note a significant proportion of pancreatic NETs
are nonfunctioning (40%) (68).
Carcinoid syndrome occurs in approximately 10% of
patients with carcinoid tumors, and is characterized by the
triad of facial flushing, secretory diarrhea, and bronchospasm. Patients with carcinoid syndrome may also develop
cardiac fibrosis, predominantly resulting in right sided
valvular heart disease.
Staging Investigations. A combination of conventional
imaging modalities (CT and MRI) and nuclear medicine
scans, in particular somatostatin receptor scintigraphy (SRS)
is often required to assess the full extent of NETs. Eighty
percent of carcinoid tumors have type 2 somatostatin receptors and can thus be localized by scintigraphy with radiolabelled octreotide. The SRS can also provide useful
information regarding likely response to somatostatin analogues.
Biochemical markers play an important role in the
diagnosis, monitoring, and management of NETs. Chromogranin A levels are often elevated, even in nonfunctioning
tumors. For carcinoid tumors, the serotonin breakdown
product 5-hydroxyindolacetic acids (5HIAA) can be measured by 24-hour urine collection. Other serum markers
(gastrin, insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, histamine, VIP)
relating to functioning tumors may be elevated and will
often result in distinct clinical syndromes.

Accurate histopathological classification of NETs is
essential since characteristics such as degree of differentiation, mitoses per high power field, and proliferation index (Ki-67) are predictive for tumor grade and
prognosis.

Treatment Strategies
Surgery. Surgery is the treatment of choice for the
minority of patients presenting with localized resectable
disease and offers the only chance of cure. Patients presenting with incidental carcinoid of the appendix at appendicectomy less than <2 cm, involving the tip and with no
mesoappendiceal invasion are usually cured by appendicectomy alone. The European Neuroendocrine Tumor
Society consensus guidelines recommend performing a
right hemicolectomy for appendiceal carcinoid tumors if
the following features are present: tumor >2 cm; deep
mesoappendiceal invasion, and/or positive margins (70).
The presence of other histological features associated with
aggressive behavior such as high mitotic index or high
Ki67, angio- or neural invasion, or tumor location at the
base of the appendix may also be indications for more
extensive surgery.
For patients with advanced disease cytoreductive
surgery to reduce tumor burden (ideally by 90%) and
therefore reduce hormone secretion may provide palliation of symptoms. Several, albeit small, retrospective
studies have cited the benefits of hepatic cytoreduction
with most studies reporting improved symptomatology
in more than 90% of patients and five-year survival rates
of 41% to 92% (71). Furthermore, reducing the tumor
burden may prolong or restore the effectiveness of antisecretory therapies, to which most tumors eventually
become refractory.
Chemoembolization/RFA. For patients deemed not
suitable for surgical cytoreduction, interventional radiological techniques such as chemoembolization or embolization alone may provide effective palliation of symptoms
by reducing hepatic artery bloodflow and causing tumor
necrosis. Chemoembolization or embolization involves
catheterization of the hepatic artery and injection of chemotherapy, gel foam powder, or microspherical particles. Radiofrequency ablation is also used alone or in combination
with either surgery or embolization techniques.
Chemotherapy. There are few large prospective randomized trials evaluating the role of chemotherapy in NETs.
Many published trials are small, retrospective and/or
include biochemical responses in the overall response rate.
The highest response rates to systemic chemotherapy
agents are generally seen in poorly differentiated, anaplastic
NETS where the combination of cisplatin and etoposide
has produced response rates around 70% (72). Pancreatic
NETS, which tend to be well to moderately differentiated,
are more likely to respond to streptozocin-based chemotherapy than other NETS. Streptozocin, in combination
with doxorubicin, 5-FU, or both, produces higher response
rates than streptozocin alone. Actual radiological response
rates to streptozocin-combinations are between 6% and
40% (73). For patients who have progressed on standard
chemotherapy, a small case series has reported tumor

Chapter 9:

response or stabilization in all six evaluable patients with
the combination of temozolamide and capecitabine (74).
Somatostatin Analogues and Interferon. For patients
with symptomatic metastatic NETs, antisecretory treatment
with the somatostatin analogues octreotide or lanreotide can
markedly reduce the circulating amounts of bioactive amines
and control symptoms. Clinical response rates are in the
order of 75%, although objective tumor response rates are
low (5%) (68).
Alpha-interferon has been demonstrated to have
antitumor activity in a number of studies with clinical
response rates of 40% to 70%, biochemical response rates
of up to 50%, and objective tumor response rates of 10%
to 15% (75).
Although a potential additive effect of somatostatin
analogues and alpha-interferon has been demonstrated, a
recently published review of the literature found a lack of
statistically significant evidence favoring the upfront use
of the combination and increased toxicity, particularly
when higher doses of alpha-interferon were used (75).
Radioisotopes. Targeted radionuclide therapy is a
treatment option for patients and can achieve good symptomatic responses and tumor stabilization rates. Agents
used include 131I-MIBG and, for patients with positive 111Inoctreotide and 111In-lanreotide SRS scans, 90Y-octreotide and
90
Y-lanreotide respectively. Approximately 15% to 20% of
patients may achieve an objective response to 90Y-octreotide
or 90Y-lanreotide, although the majority generally achieve
tumor stabilization (72). Myelosuppression is the main
side effect experienced. Renal failure can occur with 90Yoctreotide due to tubular reuptake of peptide analogues.
Ensuring adequate renal function prior to treatment and
pretreatment with amino acids has been shown to minimize
this risk.
Molecular Targeted Therapies. The overexpression in
NETs of growth factors, including VEGF and downstream
signaling molecules, platelet derived growth factor and
insulin-like growth factor receptor 1, has generated interest
in the antitumor effects of targeted therapies alone or in
combination with somatostatin analogues. Of these agents,
the angiogenesis inhibitors—bevacizumab and the small
molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors sunitinib, sorafenib,
and valatinib—and the mTOR protein kinase inhibitors—
temsirolimus and everolimus—appear the most promising,
although actual radiological response rates in Phase II trials
are less than 20% (68).

Small Bowel Cancer
Small bowel tumors are rare, accounting for 2% of all GI
malignancies (1). The main histological subtypes are adenocarcinoma and carcinoid (discussed previously), comprising 45% and 29% of small bowel tumors respectively.
Carcinomas occur most commonly in the duodenum,
whereas carcinoids occur more commonly in the distal small
bowel. Presenting symptoms of adenocarcinomas of the
small bowel may relate to local effects (bleeding, obstruction,
pain) or, more frequently, metastatic disease.
Surgery is the only curative option for patients with
localized disease and can result in median survival of

Gastrointestinal Cancer

169

20 months and five-year survival of 26% (76). Due to the
rarity of the disease, there are no RCTs regarding systemic
treatment of small bowel tumors. In practice, most oncologists will treat duodenal tumors in a similar fashion to
gastric cancers, whereas more distal small bowel tumors
are treated with colorectal cancer protocols. Small, retrospective case series provide some support for the use of
5-FU either alone or in combination with other cytotoxics
in the metastatic setting. Combinations of 5-FU and platinum
can produce response rates around 20% and irinotecan
may have efficacy as second-line therapy (77).
Key Points
•

Surgery offers potentially curative treatment for NETs, but is
only feasible in a minority of patients
• Several treatment modalities including chemoembolization/
RFA, chemotherapy, somatostatin analogues, targeted
radionuclide therapy, and surgery to reduce tumor burden are
aimed at achieving symptom control
• Small bowel tumors are rare and surgery again is the primary
curative treatment
• Systemic chemotherapy can be offered to patients with distant
metastases, however the evidence is based on retrospective case
series or extrapolation from gastric and colorectal cancer trials

COLORECTAL CANCER
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the most common gastrointestinal malignancy and the third most common cancer
worldwide with over one million new cases diagnosed
annually. Although significant progress has been made in
the treatment of colorectal cancer over the past few
decades, each year over 500,000 patients will still die from
the disease (16).

Epidemiology
The step-wise mutations that occur as normal colonic epithelium develops increasing levels of dysplasia and finally
transforms to invasive carcinoma are well described (the
adenoma-carcinoma sequence). Both environmental and
genetic factors influence the risk of developing CRC.
A family history of CRC is a major risk factor for
developing CRC. The presence of a single first degree
relative with CRC almost doubles an individual’s risk of
developing the disease. Autosomal dominant genetic disorders such as familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) and
hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC or Lynch
syndrome) are associated with a very high risk of developing the disease. However, inherited mutations in the APC
gene, responsible for FAP, and mutations associated with
HNPCC (e.g., hMLH1, hMSH2) only account for 3% to 5%
of cases (78). Inflammatory bowel disease also increases
the risk of developing malignancy. Epidemiological studies
have identified environmental risk factors including diet,
alcohol intake, smoking, and physical activity (79). Aspirin,
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (including COX-2
inhibitors), and hormone replacement therapy are potential
chemopreventative agents, but routine use is not recommended due to the associated toxicity of these agents
and uncertainty regarding cost-effectiveness, dosage, and
duration of therapy (80).

170

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Individuals considered at high risk of developing
CRC should undergo regular screening/surveillance
colonoscopies. This includes patients with an inherited predisposition toward CRC (e.g., FAP or HNPCC), patients
with a personal history of adenomatous polyps, CRC, or
inflammatory bowel disease, and individuals with a family
history of two or more first degree relatives with CRC,
or one first degree relative diagnosed at a young age.
Increasingly, throughout the European Union and elsewhere, mass screening programmes, mainly utilizing fecal
occult blood tests and flexible sigmoidoscopy, are being
introduced for individuals considered at average or slightly
above average risk for developing CRC.

can be obtained by additional imaging with pelvic MRI,
endorectal ultrasound, or both. Pretreatment MRI assessment of rectal tumors is particularly favored in Europe.
The multinational MERCURY study demonstrated that
MRI can accurately stage extramural spread and that tumor
within 1 mm of the mesorectal fascia on MRI strongly predicts for CRM involvement (85). Endorectal ultrasound is
most useful to measure depth of tumor invasion in early
stage T1 and T2 rectal cancers, but is limited in its ability
to assess bulky tumors growing into the mesorectum and
nodal disease.

Treatment Strategies for Localized Colon Cancer
Diagnosis and Staging
The presenting symptoms of CRC vary widely and may
include weight loss, symptomatic anaemia, abdominal
pain, constipation or diarrhea, per rectum bleeding, bowel
obstruction, or perforation. Many patients with CRC
remain asymptomatic until their disease is at an advanced
stage. With screening programs and increased public
awareness, patients with asymptomatic disease may be
diagnosed at an earlier stage, thereby increasing the chance
of cure. For colorectal cancer, the minimum baseline diagnostic work-up should include histological confirmation,
total colonoscopy, and CT CAP. Assessment of patients
with rectal cancer requires additional imaging in the form
of MRI of the pelvis or endorectal ultrasound. Equivocal
lesions seen on CT may also require further evaluation
with MRI of the liver and/or PET.
Accurate staging to predict prognosis of colorectal
cancer is essential and requires a combination of imaging,
histopathological review, and good quality surgery. The
long-term outcome of localized resected colon cancer is
intimately related to lymph node status. It is therefore
imperative that careful attention is paid to the number of
lymph nodes harvested during surgery as well as the number of lymph nodes involved when considering if adjuvant
therapy should be recommended. It is recommended that
a minimum of 12 nodes should be examined if true node
negativity is to be declared (81).
For rectal cancer, circumferential resection margin
(CRM) involvement, defined as tumor ≤1 mm from the
resection margin, is an important prognostic factor. Even
with the advent of total mesorectal excision (TME) and
preoperative CRT, the power of the CRM to predict for
local recurrence and survival remains high (82). Increasing
T (T1-2, T3, T4) and N (N0, N1, N2) stage had a negative
impact on prognosis in a pooled analysis of five North
American trials (83). In this analysis, three distinct groups
of at risk patients were identified according to T and N
status; intermediate risk (T1-2/N1, T3/N0), moderately
high (T1-2/N2, T3/N1, T4/N0), and high (T3/N2, T4/N1,
T4/N2). Additionally, for T3 tumors, depth of penetration
into the muscularis propria, particularly if tumor extends
more than 5 to 6 mm beyond the muscularis propria is
associated with a higher locoregional recurrence rate and
a poorer five-year survival rate (84). All these factors must
be taken into account when selecting patients for more
aggressive combined modality therapy.
Accurate local staging of primary rectal cancer is
therefore of utmost importance and further information

Although the majority of patients present with localized
colon cancer amenable to curative surgery, a significant
proportion will develop recurrent disease. Adjuvant chemotherapy is aimed at the eradication of micrometastatic
disease and therefore the prevention of recurrent disease.
Selected patients with very early tumors may be candidates
for local excision via polypectomy, but specimens require
careful histological examination to determine depth of
invasion and confirm clear margins and exclude the need
for more extensive resection.

Adjuvant Therapy for Colon Cancer
Since the late 1980s, the results of several large randomized
trials have demonstrated a clear indication for adjuvant
therapy in resected Stage III colon cancer. Initial adjuvant
chemotherapy regimens have evolved over time. Current
trials are evaluating the potential role of bevacizumab in
the treatment of adjuvant colon cancer. A further development has been the recognition of three-year DFS as an
appropriate end point for adjuvant CRC trials, after a pooled
analysis of 18 RCTs demonstrated high correlation between
three-year DFS and five-year OS (86).
Intravenous (IV) Fluoropyrimidines. After the initial
demonstration of both improved DFS and OS for patients
with Stage III colon cancer with adjuvant chemotherapy,
FU/levimasole became the standard of care in the United
States, and the reference arm for many randomized clinical
trials. Subsequent RCTs evaluating bolus 5-FU regimens
addressed questions such as duration of treatment; modulation of 5FU with levimasole, LV or both; and the role
of high versus low dose LV (81). Collectively, these trials
defined six months of bolus 5-FU/LV as the standard adjuvant regimen for colon cancer in many countries.
Adjuvant trials comparing infused and bolus 5-FU
regimens have consistently reported less toxicity with the
infused regimens with similar relapse-free and OS (81).
Infused 5-FU regimens are therefore a reasonable substitute
for bolus 5-FU regimens and have been used as the reference
treatment arm in subsequent European RCTs.
Oral Fluoropyrimidines. The X-ACT trial was a noninferiority study comparing oral capecitabine to bolus 5-FU/
LV (Mayo regimen) (87). Almost 2000 patients were
recruited, with 1004 patients randomized to oral capecitabine. The primary end point—equivalence in DFS was
met (HR 0.87; 95% CI 0.75–1.00; p < 0.001 for noninferiority). Significantly less diarrhea, nausea or vomiting, stomatitis, and neutropenia occurred with capecitabine, although

Chapter 9:

higher rates of hand-foot-syndrome and hyperbilirubinaemia were observed. On the basis of this trial, the adjuvant
use of oral capecitabine for CRC was approved in the
United States, Europe, and elsewhere.
Oral UFT (combined uracil/tegafur) in combination
with LV has also been shown to have similar efficacy to
bolus 5-FU. In the NSABP C06 trial, there was no difference in five-year DFS or OS for UFT/LV compared to
5-FU/LV. Health-related QOL data was similar, although
patients reported oral UFT/LV as a more convenient mode
of delivery than IV 5-FU/LV (88). Despite this, UFT has
not been approved for use in the United States, but is
available elsewhere, including Europe.
Combination Regimens. Success with the addition of
oxaliplatin and irinotecan in the metastatic CRC setting has
led to evaluation of these drugs in the adjuvant setting
(Table 9.5). Ongoing RCTs are also evaluating the impact of
the addition of targeted agents to adjuvant chemotherapy.
The MOSAIC (Multicenter International Study of
Oxaliplatin/5-Fluorouracil/Leucovorin in the Adjuvant
Treatment of Colon Cancer) trial investigated the addition
of oxaliplatin (85 mg/m2 day 1) to infused 5-FU/LV (De
Gramont regimen). Initial results reported a 23% reduction in the risk of relapse with the addition of oxaliplatin
(p = 0.002) (89). On the basis of these results oxaliplatin
was approved for the adjuvant treatment of Stage III CRC
by several drug regulatory authorities. Updated results
from the MOSAIC trial presented at ASCO 2007 confirmed the significant improvement in five-year DFS for
all patients, a significant benefit in OS for Stage III patients
(HR 0.80; p = 0.029) and a trend toward improved OS for
all patients (HR 0.85; p = 0.057) (90). A second study
conducted in North America, NSABP C07, evaluated the
addition of the same dose of oxaliplatin (weeks 1, 3, and
5) to the Roswell Park bolus 5-FU/LV regimen. Again a
statistically significant improvement in DFS was observed
(19% risk reduction in favor of the oxaliplatin-containing
regimen; p = 0.002) as well as a trend toward improved
OS survival (HR 0.85; p = 0.06) (91). However, much
higher rates of grade 3/4 GI toxicity occurred in both

Table 9.5

Treatment arms

Fluoropyrimidine + oxaliplatin
MOSAIC (80,90)
Oxaliplatin/infused 5-FU/LV
Infused 5-FU/LV
NSABP C07 (91)
Oxaliplatin/bolus 5-FU/LV
Bolus 5-FU/LV
Fluoropyrimidine + irinotecan
CALGB C89803 (93)
Irinotecan/5-FU/LV
5-FU/LV
PETACC-3 (163)
Irinotecan/infused 5-FU/LV
Infused 5-FU/LV
Accord 02/FFCD 9802
Irinotecan/infused 5-FU/LV
(164)
Infused 5-FU/LV

arms compared to the regimens used in the MOSAIC
trial.
Both trials reported a significant increase in grade
3/4 neuropathy with the addition of oxaliplatin, although
the rates of persisting severe neuropathy decreased to 1.1%
after 12 months of follow-up and 0.6% 12 months after
randomization for the MOSAIC and NSABP C07 trials
respectively. Grade 3/4 neutropenia, nausea, vomiting,
and diarrhea were also increased with the addition of
oxaliplatin compared to fluoropyrimidine-therapy alone.
Although severe oxaliplatin-related neuropathy improves
with time, patients can develop permanent residual neuropathy and must therefore be carefully monitored for
development of neurotoxicity while on therapy. Dose
reductions or omissions should occur as determined by
severity of symptoms.
Efficacy results from a RCT comparing oxaliplatin
in combination with capecitabine (XELOX or Capox—a
regimen used with increasing frequency in the metastatic
CRC setting) to bolus 5-FU/LV are not yet available, however the planned safety analysis has indicated a manageable toxicity profile in the adjuvant setting (92). Further
information regarding the efficacy of this regimen is also
expected from a number of other ongoing adjuvant trials.
Adjuvant CRC trials designed to investigate the efficacy of irinotecan have failed to demonstrate a benefit for
the addition of irinotecan to 5-FU/LV. The CALGB C89803
trial randomized 1264 patients to irinotecan plus 5-FU/LV
(Roswell Park regimen) or 5-FU/LV alone. No difference
in DFS or OS was seen, however toxicities and treatmentrelated mortality were much higher in the irinotecantreatment arm (93). The PETACC-3 and FNCLCC Accord02/
FFCD9802 studies compared the more tolerable FOLFIRI
regimen to the De Gramont infused 5-FU regimen, the
latter trial in patients considered to have high-risk Stage III
disease. Again, neither trial demonstrated a benefit for the
addition of irinotecan to fluoropyrimidines for the adjuvant
treatment of CRC (81).
The optimal postoperative management of Stage II
colon cancer has been less clear largely due to the majority
of studies being small and underpowered. Recently,

Number of patients

HR DFS (95% CI)

p value

HR death (95% CI)

p value

1123
1123
1200
1209

0.77a (0.65–0.91)
0.80b (0.68–0.93)
0.81 (0.70–0.93)

0.002
0.003
0.002

0.85 (0.71–1.01)c
0.80 (0.66–0.98)d
0.85 (0.72–1.01)

0.057
0.029
0.06

629
635
1044
1050
200
200

No difference

0.85

No difference

0.74

0.89a (0.77–1.11)

0.091

NR

1.19 (0.90–1.59)

0.22

1.06 (0.79–1.42)

3 year DFS all patients.
5 year DFS all patients.
All patients.
d
Stage III patients only.
Abbreviations: 5-FU/LV, 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin; DFS, disease free survival; HR, hazard ratio; NR, not reported.
b
c

171

Selected Phase III Randomized Controlled Trials of Adjuvant Combination Chemotherapy for Colon Cancer

Study/author (Ref.)

a

Gastrointestinal Cancer

0.68

172

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

however, the randomized Phase III QUASAR study (which
included 2963 patients with Stage II CRC) confirmed that
5-FU-based adjuvant treatment confers a reduction in risk
of recurrence and a 3.6% absolute improvement in survival for patients with uncertain indications for adjuvant
chemotherapy (94). At ASCO 2008, an analysis of patients
according to tumor mismatch repair (MMR) status demonstrated a lack of response to 5-FU based chemotherapy in
patients with Stage II MMR deficient tumors. In fact,
patients with Stage II MMR deficient tumors treated with
5-FU chemotherapy had a worse OS compared to untreated
patients (HR 3.15; 95% CI 1.07–9.29; p = 0.03) (95). The role
of oxaliplatin-containing regimens in these patients remains
unknown.
The risk-benefit profile must therefore be carefully
taken into account when discussing the role of adjuvant
chemotherapy with patients with Stage II colon cancer, and
immunohistochemistry for MMR proteins or testing for
microsatellite instability (MSI) should be considered. The
presence of the following adverse prognostic factors, presentation with intestinal obstruction/perforation, T4 tumors,
poorly differentiated tumors, presence of extramural venous
or lymphatic invasion or perineural invasion, is considered to indicate a high risk of relapse and, providing
there are no medical contraindications, adjuvant chemotherapy should be offered. These high-risk patients may
also derive further benefit from a combination oxaliplatinfluoropyrimidine regimen (90).

Treatment Strategies for Localized Rectal Cancer
Optimizing the treatment of localized rectal cancer is a
prime example of the importance of a multidisciplinary
approach to management. Accurate staging of the primary
tumor using MRI or endorectal ultrasound (discussed previously) is essential. Curative treatment generally requires
surgery, however local recurrence (LR) rates with conventional resection are 25% to 40%. Only the earliest stage of
tumors can be effectively managed with surgery alone.
Several treatment approaches have therefore been developed, aimed at reducing both the risk of LR and distal
metastases.
Surgery. Although selected very early tumors (e.g.,
T1N0) may be appropriate for local procedures such as
transanal endoscopic microdissection, the majority of
tumors require more extensive surgical excision. Recurrence rates with TME, defined as a sharp dissection under
clear vision with the excision of the rectum and mesorectum within the mesorectal fascia, have consistently been
reported as <10%. Although no RCTs currently compare
conventional surgery to TME, due to the reported lower
rates of recurrence and superior survival, TME has been
adopted as the standard surgical procedure in several
European countries.
Preoperative and Postoperative Radiotherapy. Preoperative
short course RT administered as 5 Gy daily for five days
improves LR rates compared to both conventional surgery
and TME. The Swedish Rectal Cancer Trial randomized
patients to short course RT and conventional surgery or
conventional surgery alone. Five-year LR rates decreased
from 27% to 11% (p < 0.001) and overall five-year survival
improved from 48% to 58% (p = 0.004) with the addition

of RT to surgery (96). The Dutch Colorectal Cancer Group
(CKVO 95-04 trial) compared the same RT regimen and
TME to TME alone. Again five-year LR rates were improved
(5.6% vs. 10.9%; p < 0.001) in the RT arm. However, there
was no difference in five-year OS (64.2% vs. 63.5%; p =
0.902) (97). The recently published results of the MRC
CR07 study also reported a significant improvement in
three-year LR rates (4.4% vs. 10.6%) and three-year DFS
(78% vs. 72%) for preoperative RT and surgery compared
to surgery followed by postoperative CRT only if the CRM
was positive. There was no difference in OS between the
groups (98).
The 2007 Cochrane review of preoperative radiotherapy and curative surgery for the management of
localized rectal carcinoma analyzed 19 trials comparing
preoperative RT to surgery alone (99). Both LR and OS were
improved by the addition of preoperative RT, although the
actual improvement in OS was marginal (HR for death
0.93; 95% CI 0.87–1.00).
Single modality postoperative RT is not recommended.
The Colorectal Cancer Collaborative Group’s 2001 metaanalysis found similar reductions in the risk of recurrence
for preoperative and postoperative RT, however preoperative RT was more dose efficient than postoperative RT
(100). A RCT directly comparing short course preoperative
RT and prolonged postoperative RT reported better LR
rates with the preoperative RT approach (13% vs. 22%,
p = 0.02) (101). Furthermore, the NCCTG 79-47-51 study
reported both a survival advantage and reduced LR rates
with postoperative CRT compared to postoperative RT,
making combined therapy the preferred approach (102).
Preoperative and Postoperative Chemoradiotherapy. Until
recently, postoperative 5-FU-based CRT was the standard
of care in the United States for stage II and III rectal cancers. Postoperative CRT was superior to RT alone in the
NCCTG trial, and the GITSG 7175 trial demonstrated a
significant advantage for adjuvant CRT over surgery alone
for both LR rates (33% vs. 55%, p = 0.005) and survival
(p = 0.01) (103). The NSABP R-01 study did not evaluate
postoperative CRT, but results indicated that compared to
surgery alone, adjuvant chemotherapy was superior for
DFS and adjuvant RT was superior for LR rates (104). The
combined results of these trials led to the NIH consensus
conference recommendation of postoperative CRT as standard therapy. A subsequent study determined that 5-FU
delivered as a protracted venous infusion was superior to
bolus 5-FU in terms of time to relapse (p = 0.01) and survival
(p = 0.005), and that there was no additional benefit with
the addition of semustine (105).
Increasingly, the approach for patients with locally
advanced rectal cancer is moving toward the use of preoperative CRT. Neoadjuvant CRT has several potential benefits. In addition to the synergistic effect of chemotherapy
combined with RT, micrometastatic disease is treated early
and tumor downstaging may allow increased rates of
sphincter-preserving surgery. The disadvantage is overtreatment of patients with early pathological stage or occult
metastases.
At least three RCTs have addressed the question of
preoperative versus postoperative CRT. Both the NSABP
R-03 and INT-0147 trials closed prematurely due to poor
accrual. Over 800 patients were recruited to the German

Chapter 9:

CAO/ARO/AIO-94 study, which reported improved local
control rates (6% vs. 13%, p = 0.006) and reduced acute
(27% vs. 47%, p = 0.01) and long-term (14% vs. 24%, p =
0.01) toxicity with the preoperative approach (106). More
patients were able to have sphincter-preserving surgery
following preoperative CRT. No difference in OS or DFS
was seen between the two approaches. This trial prompted
the move in the United States from postoperative to preoperative CRT. Due to a more convenient mode of administration, capecitabine is often substituted for infused 5-FU.
The ongoing NSABP R-04 trial is designed to evaluate
noninferiority of capecitabine and RT to infused 5-FU
and RT, as well as the efficacy of adding oxaliplatin to
fluoropyrimidine-based CRT.
Preoperative Radiotherapy or Preoperative Chemoradiation. Trials comparing preoperative CRT and preoperative
RT have also been conducted. Two European studies, the
FFCD 9203 and the EORTC 22921 evaluated the addition
of 5-FU to long course preoperative RT (45 Gy in 25 fractions) in patients with T3-4 rectal cancers (107,108). Total
mesorectal excision was the recommended surgery (from
1999 onward for EORTC 22921) although compliance was
variable. Patients in the FFCD 9203 study also received
postoperative chemotherapy, whereas patients within the
EORTC 22921 study had a second randomization to postoperative chemotherapy or observation. Adding chemotherapy to long-course RT resulted in pathological downstaging
and improved LR rates, but no difference in OS. In the
EORTC study, LR rates were improved by the addition of
chemotherapy whether it was administered preoperatively
(with RT) or as adjuvant therapy. A small Polish study
randomized patients to preoperative short-course RT (5 Gy
in 5 fractions) or CRT (50.4 Gy in 28 fractions, bolus 5-FU/
LV) followed by TME. Combined therapy resulted in
higher rates of pathological downstaging, but also higher
rates of early toxicity and no difference in survival or LR
rates (109).
It therefore remains uncertain if preoperative shortcourse RT or preoperative long-course CRT should be the
preferred approach. When interpreting these results, consideration should also be given to the degree of quality
control on multiple levels, including accuracy of initial staging, delivery of treatment (particularly TME quality), and
histopathology reporting. Due to the increased rates of
pathological downstaging, many European centers would
elect to administer preoperative CRT to patients T3-4N0-2
tumors if the CRM is threatened or involved.
Adjuvant Chemotherapy. Fluoropyrimidine-based adjuvant chemotherapy is commonly given in both stage II and
III rectal cancer. Limitations of preoperative staging techniques and the histological downstaging that follows preoperative therapy means that the current challenge is accurately
predicting risk of relapse and who will benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy. Adjuvant chemotherapy is superior to
surgery alone (104).
The EORTC 22921 study reported trends toward
improved PFS and OS with the addition of adjuvant chemotherapy to preoperative RT or CRT; however these
results were not statistically significant (108). The QUASAR trial included 948 patients with rectal cancer and
allowed adjunctive RT, but not CRT. The relative risk of

Gastrointestinal Cancer

173

recurrence with fluoropyrimidine-chemotherapy compared
to observation for patients with primary rectal tumors was
0.68 (p = 0.004) and the relative risk of death was 0.77 (p =
0.05) (94).
The evidence supporting fluoropyrimidines-based
adjuvant chemotherapy in rectal cancer is therefore increasing. Regimens commonly used include bolus 5-FU/LV,
infused 5-FU, and oral capecitabine. Extrapolating from
colon cancer trials, oxaliplatin-containing regimens are also
used. Prospective RCTs have not yet demonstrated definitively the benefits of adjuvant chemotherapy following
neoadjuvant CRT.

Follow-up
Patients who have completed curative treatment for colorectal cancer should be followed up for the development
of recurrent disease and require lifelong surveillance for
the development of adenomatous polyps and second colorectal primary tumors. For patients at higher risk of recurrence deemed appropriate for intervention, the current
ASCO guidelines recommend history and examination
every three to six months for the first three years and every
six months during years 4 and 5, CEA every three months
for at least the first three years, and annual CT chest, abdomen, and pelvis (rectal cancer) for three years after primary
therapy. Colonoscopy is recommended at three years postoperative treatment and, if normal, every five years thereafter. Routine CXR, full blood count, or liver function tests
are not recommended (110).
The current ESMO guidelines suggest follow-up for
colon cancer comprising of history and examination; CEA
every three to six months for three years and every
6–12 months in years 4 and 5 after surgery if initially elevated, liver ultrasound every six months for three years
and after four and five years, and colonoscopy after one
year and thereafter every three to five years. Annual CT
chest and abdomen for three years can be considered in
patients who are at higher risk for recurrence. Chest X-ray
has a low sensitivity but can be considered every year for
five years (111).

Treatment Strategies for Advanced Colorectal Cancer
Despite improved surgical techniques, adjuvant and neoadjuvant treatment strategies, and the introduction of
national screening programs, a significant proportion of
patients will still develop or present with advanced CRC.
The past decade has seen substantial developments in the
treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). Active
chemotherapeutic agents include IV and oral fluoropyrimidines, oxaliplatin, irinotecan, and raltitrexed. Molecular
targeted agents also have an established role in the treatment of mCRC, although the high cost associated with
these agents prohibits routine use in many countries.
Recent RCTs have reported median OS in excess of
20 months with the use of active chemotherapy agents with
and without targeted agents. For a small number of patients
with limited metastatic disease, curative resection of liver
or lung metastases may be possible. Evaluation of strategies
to improve outcomes for patients with potentially curable
metastatic disease is ongoing.

174

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Chemotherapy for Advanced Colorectal Cancer
For patients with advanced CRC and adequate PS, systemic
chemotherapy can confer both symptomatic and survival
advantages. Although combination regimens are most frequently used first-line, RCTs comparing initial combination
to sequential chemotherapy have, perhaps surprisingly,
not demonstrated a significant difference in OS with
combination therapy (112).
Fluoropyrimidines. Fluoropyrimidines have long been
regarded as the backbone of treatment in mCRC. Bolus IV
5-FU on its own produces RR around 10%. The addition
of LV to 5-FU results in improved RR and OS, and for many
years bolus 5-FU/LV regimens were considered standard
therapy (113). The main toxicities associated with bolus
5-FU/LV are gastrointestinal and hematological, along
with hand-foot syndrome. Subsequently, due to improved
toxicity profiles and superior efficacy, infused 5-FU/LV
regimens have largely replaced bolus regimens both in
practice and in clinical trials, although the need for central
venous catheters and their associated potential complications
must not be disregarded (114).
With this in mind, the oral fluoropyrimidines capecitabine and UFT provide convenient alternatives to infused
5-FU. Compared to bolus 5-FU, capecitabine has been
shown to have at least equivalent time to disease progression (TTP) and OS in two large RCTs (115). Different
toxicity profiles were also observed, with significantly less
grade 3/4 stomatitis, neutropenia, and febrile neutropenia/
sepsis, but increased hand-foot syndrome and hyperbilirubinaemia with capecitabine. In the mCRC setting, UFT plus
LV has been compared to 5-FU in two Phase III studies
and also resulted in similar efficacy and an improved
safety profile (115). In contrast to capecitabine, UFT resulted
in less hand-foot syndrome (frequency 2%) compared to
5-FU (116). UFT is not approved for the treatment of mCRC
in the United States.
Raltitrexed. Raltitrexed is a folate analogue that
directly inhibits thymidylate synthase. Four RCTs comparing raltitrexed (3 mg/m2 every three weeks) to bolus IV or
infused 5-FU/LV have been conducted, three of which demonstrated equivalent efficacy (117). The main side effects are
neutropenia and diarrhea. Due to 50% of the drug being
renally excreted unchanged, close monitoring of renal function is essential to prevent undue toxicity. Raltitrexed can
be used as an alternative to fluoropyrimidines in patients
who are intolerant of fluoropyrimidines due to dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency, or fluoropyrimidineinduced coronary artery spasm. Raltitrexed is not licensed
for use in the United States.
Irinotecan. Single agent irinotecan was adopted as
standard second-line therapy based on the results of two
RCTs which demonstrated significantly improved OS for
irinotecan compared to BSC (9.2 vs. 6.5 months, p = 0.0001)
and infused 5-FU (10.8 vs. 8.5 months, p = 0.035) (118,119).
When added to fluoropyrimidines in the first-line setting,
irinotecan results in superior survival. A European study
compared irinotecan with infused 5-FU/LV to infused 5-FU/
LV and resulted in improved RR (49% vs. 31%, p < 0.001),
TTP (6.7 vs. 4.4 months, p < 0.001), and OS (17.4 vs.
14.1 months, p = 0.031) with a manageable toxicity profile.

A North American study assigned patients to irinotecan/
5-FU/LV (IFL), 5-FU/LV, or irinotecan alone (120). Compared to 5-FU/LV, IFL resulted in significantly improved
OS (14.8 vs. 12.6 months, p = 0.04), PFS (7.0 vs. 4.3 months,
p = 0.004), and RR (50% vs. 29%, p < 0.001). Irinotecan monotherapy had similar efficacy to 5-FU/LV. Further information regarding the optimal irinotecan-fluoropyrimidine
combination has been gained from the BICC-C trial. This
study initially randomized patients to FOLFIRI, modified
IFL (mIFL), or irinotecan plus oral capecitabine (CapeIRI)
and then to either celecoxib or placebo (121). Compared to
mIFL, FOLFIRI was superior for PFS (7.6 vs. 5.9 months,
p = 0.004) and there was a trend toward improved OS (23.1
vs. 17.6 months, p = 0.09). CapeIRI was associated with
increased toxicity; namely severe vomiting, diarrhea, and
dehydration, and inferior PFS and OS compared to FOLFIRI. This arm was discontinued when the protocol was
modified to include bevacizumab.
FOLFIRI has emerged as the preferred irinotecanfluoropyrimidine regimen based on efficacy and toxicity
profile. The main toxicities associated with irinotecan are:
delayed onset diarrhea, which can be severe and life
threatening, neutropenia, nausea, vomiting, asthenia, acute
cholinergic syndrome, and alopecia.
Oxaliplatin. Oxaliplatin in combination with infused
5-FU/LV (FOLFOX) is an accepted treatment regimen in
both the first- and second-line setting. Initial Phase III
studies reported improved PFS compared to infused 5-FU/
LV (9.0 vs. 6.2 months, p = 0.0003) and bolus 5-FU/LV (7.8
vs. 5.3 months, p = 0.0001) as well as significantly improved
response rates when used first-line (122,123). Although OS
was not significantly improved in either trial, this was
attributed to a significant proportion of patients assigned
to 5-FU/LV receiving oxaliplatin-chemotherapy after progression. An OS benefit for the first-line use of FOLFOX
was demonstrated in the U.S. Intergroup 9741 study, leading to adoption of FOLFOX as standard first-line therapy
for mCRC. In the final design of this study, patients were
assigned to IFL, FOLFOX, or a combination of irinotecan
and oxaliplatin (IROX). FOLFOX was significantly superior
to IFL in terms of TTP (HR 0.74, p = 0.0014), RR (45% vs.
31%, p = 0.002) and OS (HR 0.66, p = 0.0001) (124). IFL also
resulted in significantly higher rates of GI toxicity, febrile
neutropenia, and dehydration than FOLFOX. Comparison
of FOLFOX to IROX is discussed below. Second-line FOLFOX after failure of an irinotecan-containing regimen is
also superior to infused 5-FU/LV in terms of RR, TTP, and
relief of tumor-related symptoms (125).
Unlike CapeIRI, capecitabine combined with oxaliplatin is a well-tolerated regimen with at least similar efficacy to FOLFOX. The largest trial comparing XELOX to
FOLFOX, the NO16966 trial, met its primary end point of
noninferiority for XELOX versus FOLFOX for PFS (HR
1.04; 95% CI 0.93–1.16) (126).
Both FOLFOX and Capox are acceptable treatment
options for the treatment of mCRC. Specific oxaliplatinrelated toxicities are cold-induced dysaesthesia and
cumulative peripheral sensory neuropathy which is the
dose-limiting toxicity.
Irinotecan, Oxaliplatin, or Both? With both oxaliplatin
and irinotecan available for use in mCRC, questions then

Chapter 9:

arose regarding the optimal sequencing of effective regimens
and the potential role of oxaliplatin combined with irinotecan.
A GERCOR study was designed to specifically address the
issue of FOLFIRI-FOLFOX sequencing. Patients were randomized to FOLFIRI then FOLFOX6, or the reverse (127).
Median TTP was similar (8.5 vs. 8.0 months, p = 0.26) as were
initial response rates (56% vs. 54%). Although second-line
FOLFIRI resulted in a lower response rate compared to
second-line FOLFOX (4% vs. 15%), there was no significant
difference in OS (21.5 vs. 21.6 months, p = 0.99). A second
Italian study, comparing first-line FOLFOX to FOLFIRI also
reported no difference in ORR, TTP, or OS (128). Similar numbers of patients in each group received second-line therapy.
Updated results from the U.S. Intergroup 9741 trial
have confirmed that IROX is not superior to FOLFOX in
terms of TTP (HR 1.39, p < 0.0001), RR (36% vs. 43%, p =
0.002), or OS (1.34, p = 0.0001) (129). Two published RCTs
have compared the combination of oxaliplatin, irinotecan,
and 5-FU (FOLFOXIRI) with FOLFIRI with conflicting
results. The first study, conducted by the Hellenic Oncology
Research Group failed to detect a significant difference
in OS (21.5 vs. 19.5 months, p = 0.337), RR (43% vs. 33.6%,
p = 0.17), or TTP (8.4 vs. 6.9 months, p = 0.17) (130). On
the other hand, the second study conducted by the Gruppo
Oncologico Nord Ovest reported significantly improved
OS (22.6 vs. 16.7 months, p = 0.0006), RR (66% vs. 41%, p =
0.033), or TTP (9.8 vs. 6.9 months, p = 0.032) (131). The
differing results may be explained, in part by differing
dosing schedules and the enrolment of a younger and fitter
patient population in the second study. On the basis of the
available data, however, FOLFOXIRI cannot be accepted as
standard first-line therapy, although may be an option for
younger patients of good PS.

Molecularly Targeted Agents
and Advanced Colorectal Cancer
Recent years have seen the emergence of several biological agents in the treatment of gastrointestinal and other
Table 9.6

First line
Hurwitz et al. (132)
Kabbinavar (165)

Kabbinavar et al. (166)
BICC-C (121, 134)
NO16966 (136)

a

175

malignancies. In advanced colorectal cancer, RCTs have
demonstrated that the vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF) receptor monoclonal antibody, bevacizumab, and
the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors,
cetuximab and panitumumab, have efficacy. The optimal
setting for the use of these agents, however, remains uncertain and treatment paradigms continue to evolve. Furthermore, due to the high cost associated with these drugs and
the often modest clinical benefit, for many countries, incorporation of these drugs into routine practice is not feasible
from a health-economic point of view.
Bevacizumab. Since angiogenesis is a requirement for
tumor growth, invasion, and metastasis, there has been
much interest in the development of antiangiogenic drugs.
Bevacizumab, an IgG1 recombinant monoclonal antibody,
binds and inactivates all isoforms of VEGF to inhibit angiogenesis and has activity in CRC in both the first- and
second-line settings (Table 9.6). The main toxicities associated with bevacizumab are hypertension, proteinuria, bleeding, and impaired wound healing and, more rarely, arterial
thrombosis and gastrointestinal perforation.
The Hurwitz study randomized 813 patients to irinotecan and bolus 5-FU/LV (IFL); plus bevacizumab (5 mg/kg
fortnightly) or placebo (132). The primary end point of the
study was met, with a significant improvement in OS from
15.6 to 20.3 months with the addition of bevacizumab (HR
0.66, p < 0.001). This study was commenced prior to the
routine use of oxaliplatin for mCRC, consequently only
25% of all patients received subsequent oxaliplatin. The
rate of any second-line therapy was similar between the
two arms. Progression-free survival improved from a
median of 6.2 to 10.6 months, ORR from 34.8% to 44.8%,
and median duration of response from 7.1 to 10.4 months.
A combined analysis of three RCTs evaluating 5-FU/LV in
combination with bevacizumab or placebo also reported
improved response rate (34.1% vs. 24.5%), PFS (HR 0.63,
p ≤ 0.0001), and OS (HR 0.74, p = 0.008) with the addition of bevacizumab (133). On the basis of these results,

Selected Randomized Studies of Bevacizumab in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer

Study/author (Ref.)

Second line
E3200 (137)

Gastrointestinal Cancer

Treatment arms

Number of patients

HR DFS

p Value

HR death

p Value

IFL + bevacizumab
IFL + placebo
5-FU/LV + bev 5 mg/kg
5-FU/LV + bev 10 mg/kg
5-FU/LV + placebo
5-FU/LV + bevacizumab
5-FU/LV + placebo
IFL + bevacizumab
FOLFIRI + bevacizumab
XELOX/FOLFOX + bev
XELOX/FOLFOX

411
402
35
33
36
104
105
60
57
699
701

0.054

<0.001

0.66

<0.001

0.46
0.66

0.005
0.217

0.63
1.17

0.137
0.582

0.50

0.0002

0.79

0.16

NS

0.28

1.79

0.037

0.83

0.0023

0.89

0.077

FOLFOX4 + bevacizumab
FOLFOX4
Bevacizumabb

286
296
243

0.61

0.0001a

0.75

0.0011a

FOLFOX4 + bevacizumab versus FOLFOX4.
Bevacizumab-alone arm closed early after an interim safety analysis suggested inferior survival.
Abbreviations: 5-FU/LV, 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin; bev, bevacizumab; DFS, disease-free survival; FOLFIRI, 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin/irinorecan; FOLFOX, 5-fluorouracil/
leucovorin/oxaliplatin; HR, hazard ratio; IFL, Irinotecan/5-fluorouracil/leucovorin; NS, not significant; XELOX, capecitabine/oxaliplatin.
b

176

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

bevacizumab in combination with fluoropyrimidinebased chemotherapy (5-FU/LV or 5-FU/LV/irinotecan)
was approved for use in first-line mCRC by the U.S. FDA
in April 2004, and the European Commission in 2005.
Following the FDA approval of bevacizumab in April 2004,
the aforementioned BICC-C study was modified to include
a randomization of 117 patients to FOLFIRI and bevacizumab or modified IFL and bevacizumab. With a median
follow-up of 34.4 months, FOLFIRI/bevacizumab had superior OS compared to IFL/bevacizumab (HR 1.79, p = 0.037)
(134). FOLFIRI/bevacizumab should therefore be used in
preference to IFL/bevacizumab.
Bevacizumab has also been evaluated in the firstline (TREE2 and NO16966) and second-line (E3200) settings
in combination with oxaliplatin/fluoropyrimidine chemotherapy. TREE2 reported nonsignificant trends toward
improved RR, TTP, and OS with the addition of bevacizumab to oxaliplatin in combination with bolus, infused,
or oral fluoropyrimidines (135). NO16966 randomized 1400
patients to XELOX or FOLFOX alone or in combination
with bevacizumab. A significant improvement in PFS (the
primary end point) was observed (8.0 vs. 9.4 months, HR
0.93, p = 0.0023), but not OS (HR 0.89, p = 0.077) (136). An
interesting observation from this study is the equivalent
median duration of treatment in both the bevacizumab and
placebo arms despite differing PFS, suggesting that patients
were not treated with bevacizumab until progressive disease.
This led the authors to conclude that patients may need to
be treated with bevacizumab until progression to derive the
maximum benefit. The E3200 study randomized 829 patients
to FOLFOX4, FOLFOX4/bevacizumab, or bevacizumab alone
(137). The bevacizumab-alone arm was discontinued after
an interim analysis suggested inferiority compared to the
chemotherapy-containing arms. The addition of bevacizumab to FOLFOX4 chemotherapy resulted in statistically
significant improvements in OS (12.9 vs. 10.8 months), PFS
(7.3 vs. 4.7 months), and RR (22.7% vs. 8.6%) and led to FDA
approval for use of bevacizumab in second-line treatment
of mCRC.

Table 9.7

Cetuximab and Panitumumab. The EGFR is involved
in the pathogenesis of many malignancies and is correlated
with poorer outcome. The rate of EGFR expression in CRC
is around 70% (138). EGFR inhibitors such as cetuximab
and panitumumab act by binding to the extracellular
domain of EGFR, thus preventing phosphorylation and
activation of intracellular downstream signal transduction
pathways. Several trials have demonstrated the efficacy of
these agents (Table 9.7). The most commonly observed
toxicities associated with EGFR inhibitors are skin toxicity,
typically an acneiform rash, and hypomagnesemia.
The BOND study established the role of cetuximab
in patients with irinotecan-refractory mCRC (139). Three
hundred and twenty nine patients were randomly assigned
in a 2:1 fashion to cetuximab in combination with an irinotecan based regimen or cetuximab alone. Cross-over to the
combination treatment arm at progression was permitted.
The primary end point, ORR was met and was significantly
superior for the combination treatment arm (22.9% vs. 10.8%,
p = 0.007), demonstrating that cetuximab has the ability to
overcome irinotecan-resistance. Time to progression was
also in favor of combination therapy (4.1 vs. 1.5 months,
p < 0.001) and there was a trend toward an OS advantage
(8.6 vs. 6.9 months, p = 0.48). Subsequent trials have also
resulted in a significant PFS for cetuximab + irinotecan
compared to irinotecan-alone in patients who have failed
oxaliplatin chemotherapy (EPIC) and cetuximab compared
to BSC alone in chemotherapy refractory patients (CO.17)
(140,141). Furthermore, the CO.17 study, unlike BOND and
EPIC did not permit crossover and also resulted in a statistically significant improvement in OS (HR 0.77; p =
0.0005).
Little data is currently available regarding the efficacy
of cetuximab in combination with oxaliplatin-fluoropyrimidine therapy. EXPLORE was a randomized Phase III trial
designed to evaluate FOLFOX versus FOLFOX-cetuximab
in patients previously treated with irinotecan, that closed
early after recruiting only 102 patients out of a planned
1100 patients (142). In the first-line setting, Phase II studies

Randomized Studies of Cetuximab and Panitumumab in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer

Study/author (Ref.)
First line
CRYSTAL (143)

Treatment arms

FOLFIRI + cetuximab
FOLFIRI
Second or subsequent line
BOND (139)
Irinotecan + cetuximab
Cetuximab
CO.17 (140)
Cetuximab Best
supportive care
EPIC (141)
Irinotecan + cetuximab
Irinotecan
EXPLORE (142)
FOLFOX + cetuximab
FOLFOX
Van Cutsem et al. (144)
Panitumumab Best
supportive care

Number of patients

Median DFS

HR DFS ( p value)

Median OS

HR death
( p value)

599
599

8.9 mo
8.0 mo

0.851
(0.0479)

19.9 mo
18.6 mo

0.93
(0.31)

218
111
287
285
648
650
50
52
231
232

4.1 mo
1.5 mo
1.9 mo
1.8 mo
4.0 mo
2.6 mo
4.4 mo
4.1 mo
8.0 wk
7.3 wk

0.54
(<0.001)
0.68
(<0.001)
0.692
(≤0.0001)
NS

8.6 mo
6.9 mo
6.1 mo
4.6 mo
10.7 mo
10.0 mo
NR

NS

0.54
(<0.0001)

∼6 mo
∼6 mo

0.77
(0.005)
0.975
(0.71)

NS

Abbreviations: DFS, disease-free survival; FOLFIRI, 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin/irinorecan; FOLFOX, 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin/oxaliplatin; HR, hazard ratio; NR, not
reported; NS, not significant; OS, overall survival.

Chapter 9:

have demonstrated efficacy of the combination of FOLFOX
and cetuximab and the ongoing U.K. Phase III COIN study
will provide further efficacy data regarding this regimen.
In the first-line setting, the CRYSTAL trial met its
primary end point of PFS, with improved PFS for FOLFIRIcetuximab compared to FOLFIRI alone (8.9 vs. 8.0 months,
HR 0.851, p = 0.0479) (143). ORR also significantly favored
the cetuximab-containing arm (46.9% vs. 38.7%, p = 0.0038)
and a higher percentage of patients receiving cetuximab
proceeded to surgery with curative intent (6.0% vs. 1.5%)
and achieved R0 resection (4.3% vs. 1.5%, p = 0.0034). There
was no significant difference in OS. K-ras mutation analysis
of 540 of the 1198 patients recruited demonstrated that the
PFS benefit associated with the addition of cetuximab was
limited to patients with wild-type K-ras (HR 0.68, p = 0.017)
as opposed to mutated K-ras (HR 1.07, p = 0.47) (143).
In a RCT of chemotherapy refractory patients, panitumumab had superior PFS compared to BSC alone (HR 0.54,
p < 0.0001) (144). Although statistically significant, the actual
improvement in PFS was from 7.3 to 8.0 weeks. A significant OS benefit was not observed in this study; however,
crossover to the active treatment arm at progression was
allowed, a phenomenon that may have obscured any potential OS advantage. As in the CRYSTAL study, response to
panitumumab was limited to patients with wild-type K-ras,
with no patient with mutant K-ras responding to panitumumab (145). Furthermore, patients with wild-type K-ras
fared better than mutant K-ras (HR death 0.67) regardless
of treatment, suggesting that K-ras is both a prognostic and
predictive factor for this group of patients. The FDA
approved panitumumab for use in chemorefractory mCRC
in September 2006. In Europe, conditional marketing authorization was granted for use of panitumumab in EGFR
expressing mCRC with nonmutated (wild-type) KRAS after
failure of standard chemotherapy regimens.
Future Directions for Targeted Therapies. Several other
targeted agents including sunitinib, pazopanib, cetiranib,
and aflibercept are in the early phases of development.
Other agents such as vatalanib and the tyrosine kinase
inhibitors gefitinib and erlotinib alone or in combination
with chemotherapy have so far yielded disappointing
results.
For the targeted agents with confirmed efficacy, efforts
are now focused on defining the optimal setting in which
to administer these agents, identification of predictive factors and better selection of patients more likely to respond
to therapy, optimization of dosing regimens, and the role
of dual targeted therapy. Initial excitement regarding dual
targeted therapy has been dampened by recent clinical
trials. The combination of panitumumab and bevacizumab
with either oxaliplatin or irinotecan-based chemotherapy
was found to be detrimental in the interim analysis of the
PACCE trial, leading to early closure of the trial (146).
BOND-2 also closed early due to poor recruitment, but did
not report any unexpected toxicity in the 83 patients from
the addition of bevacizumab to either randomized to cetuximab and bevacizumab or irinotecan and, cetuximab and
bevacizumab (147). However, in the Dutch CAIRO II study,
the addition of cetuximab to the combination of Capoxbevacizumab resulted in increased toxicity and worse PFS
(HR 1.21, p = 0.01) compared to Capox-bevacizumab, although
OS was similar (19.4 m vs. 20.3 m, p = 0.16) (148).

Gastrointestinal Cancer

177

Management of Potentially Resectable
Metastatic Disease
Patients with mCRC limited to the liver (and less frequently
the lung) may be candidates for potentially curative resection. Appropriate selection of surgical candidates requires
consideration of the patient’s clinical state and the likelihood of achieving a successful R0 resection. For patients
with liver metastases, conservation of adequate residual
liver parenchyma is also important. Careful review of
imaging modalities including CT, PET, and MRI allows
exclusion of extrahepatic (or pulmonary) disease and clarification of the size, number, and distribution of metastases,
as well as the relationship of metastatic lesions to vascular
structures. A small percentage of patients with initially
unresectable metastases may be sufficiently downstaged by
systemic therapy to become candidates for potential resection and early data suggest that the rates of “conversion”
may be increased by the addition of targeted agents to
chemotherapy.
Surgical resection of liver metastases results in fiveyear survival rates around 35% (149). Although adjuvant
chemotherapy is frequently administered, actual supporting
data from RCTs is limited. To date, no study has demonstrated an OS benefit although a significant improvement
in relapse-free survival was observed in the published
Intergroup study which evaluated adjuvant intra-arterial
floxuridine and IV-infused 5-FU chemotherapy (four-year

Key Points
•

•
•

•
•
•

•

•

•

Adjuvant oxaliplatin-fluoropyrimidine therapy chemotherapy
should be routinely offered to fit patients with Stage III colon
cancer. For those not suitable for oxaliplatin therapy, oral
capecitabine (or IV-infused 5-FU) is a reasonable option
Oral capecitabine is at least equivalent to intravenous 5-FU in
the adjuvant and metastatic settings
For patients with Stage II colon cancer, fluoropyrimidine
chemotherapy offers a small clinical benefit and should be
considered in patients considered at high-risk of relapse.
Mismatch repair status should be determined by either
immunohistochemistry or MSI, since Stage II patients with
deficient MMR tumors do not appear to benefit from adjuvant
5-FU alone
Surgery (ideally TME) is the primary curative treatment modality
for rectal cancer
For locally advanced rectal tumors, preoperative short course
radiation or long-course chemoradiation results in improved LR
rates
Palliative systemic chemotherapy is beneficial for patients of
adequate performance status. Exposure to the active agents
oxaliplatin, irinotecan, and fluoropyrimides correlates with
longer median OS
The targeted agents bevacizumab, cetuximab, and
panitumumab can result in improved response rates and PFS.
Bevacizumab in the first- and second-line setting can prolong
OS. Cetuximab can improve OS in chemorefractory patients,
can reverse irinotecan resistance, and is more efficacious in
combination with irinotecan
Emerging data indicates that in mCRC, K-ras mutations confer
resistance to EGFR monoclonal antibodies. K-ras analysis
should be performed if considering treatment with cetuximab or
panitumumab
Selected patients with metastatic disease confined to the liver
and/or lung may be candidates for potentially curative
resection

178

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

recurrence free rate 25.2% vs. 45.7%, p = 0.04) (150). The
EORTC 40983 (EPOC) trial employed a different approach,
randomizing patients to perioperative FOLFOX chemotherapy (six cycles pre- and six cycles postoperatively) or
surgery alone (149). Three year PFS improved for both the
eligible and resected patient populations with the addition
of perioperative chemotherapy (HR 0.77, p = 0.041, and HR
0.73, p = 0.025, respectively). For all randomized patients,
three-year PFS improved from 28.1% to 35.4% (HR 0.79, p =
0.058), corresponding to a 7.3% absolute improvement in
PFS. Overall survival data from this trial is awaited.

REFERENCES
1.
2.

3.

4.

5.

ANAL CANCER

6.

Squamous cell carcinoma of the anus is uncommon with an
estimated 4650 new cases in the United States for 2007 (1).

Epidemiology
The incidence of anal cancer is increasing, most likely due
to the rising prevalence of exposure to risk factors such as
cigarette smoking, anal intercourse, HPV infection, and
multiple lifetime sexual partners (151). Oncogenic human
papillomavirus infection types (e.g., type 16) are frequently
detected.

Treatment Strategies

7.

8.

9.

10.

Treatment of Localized Anal Cancer
Combined chemoradiation using 5-FU and mitomycin C is
the standard of care, with surgery reserved for residual or
recurrent disease after chemoradiation.
Two randomized studies demonstrated superiority of
chemoradiation over radiotherapy alone with regards to
local control rates, although neither resulted in an OS
benefit. A third study demonstrated that incorporating
mitomycin C into 5-FU-radiation regimens improved both
colostomy-free and disease-free rates (152). The RTOG 98-11
trial comparing standard chemoradiation to two cycles of
induction cisplatin/5-FU followed by cisplatin/5-FU-based
chemoradiation reported a higher rate of colostomies in the
experimental arm and no difference in DFS or OS (153).
Current randomized Phase III studies are evaluating substitution of cisplatin for mitomycin C, the role of adjuvant
chemotherapy and alternative radiation schedules.

Treatment of Metastatic Disease
Less than 20% of patients with anal cancer will develop
distal metastases. There is no standard treatment although
several agents have been evaluated. Cisplatin in combination with 5-FU is a commonly used regimen with relatively
high response rates in nonrandomized trials, however
median survival for these patients remains limited to 9 to
12 months (152).

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

Key Points
•

Definitive chemoradiation with mitomycin C and 5-FU is
standard of care
• Surgery is usually reserved as salvage therapy
• There is no standard treatment regimen for metastatic disease

18.
19.

Jemal A, Siegel R, Ward E et al. Cancer statistics, 2007. CA
Cancer J Clin 2007; 57: 43–66.
Thun MJ, Peto R, Lopez AD et al. Alcohol consumption and
mortality among middle-aged and elderly U.S. adults. N Engl
J Med 1997; 337: 1705–14.
Sharma P, Falk GW, Weston AP et al. Dysplasia and cancer
in a large multicenter cohort of patients with Barrett’s
esophagus. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol 2006; 4: 566–72.
van Vliet EP, Heijenbrok-Kal MH, Hunink MG et al. Staging
investigations for oesophageal cancer: a meta-analysis. Br J
Cancer 2008; 98: 547–57.
Siewert JR, Stein HJ. Classification of adenocarcinoma of the
oesophagogastric junction. Br J Surg 1998; 85: 1457–9.
Omloo JM, Lagarde SM, Hulscher JB et al. Extended transthoracic resection compared with limited transhiatal resection
for adenocarcinoma of the mid/distal esophagus: five-year
survival of a randomized clinical trial. Ann Surg 2007; 246:
992–1000, discussion-1.
Arnott SJ, Duncan W, Gignoux M et al. Preoperative radiotherapy for esophageal carcinoma. Cochrane Database Syst
Rev 2005; CD001799.
Kelsen DP, Ginsberg R, Pajak TF et al. Chemotherapy followed
by surgery compared with surgery alone for localized
esophageal cancer. N Engl J Med 1998; 339: 1979–84.
Medical Research Council Oesophageal Cancer Working
Group. Surgical resection with or without preoperative chemotherapy in oesophageal cancer: a randomised controlled
trial. Lancet 2002; 359: 1727–33.
Cunningham D, Allum WH, Stenning SP et al. Perioperative
chemotherapy versus surgery alone for resectable gastroesophageal cancer. N Engl J Med 2006; 355: 11–20.
Boige V, Pignon J, Saint-Aubert B et al. Final results of a
randomized trial comparing preoperative 5-fluorouracil (F)/
cisplatin (P) to surgery alone in adenocarcinoma of stomach and lower esophagus (ASLE): FNLCC ACCORD07FFCD 9703 trial. J Clin Oncol (Meeting Abstracts) 2007; 25(18
Suppl): 4510.
Gebski V, Burmeister B, Smithers BM et al. Survival benefits
from neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy or chemotherapy in
oesophageal carcinoma: a meta-analysis. Lancet Oncol 2007;
8: 226–34.
Stahl M, Walz MK, Stuschke M et al. Preoperative chemotherapy (CTX) versus preoperative chemoradiotherapy
(CRTX) in locally advanced esophagogastric adenocarcinomas: First results of a randomized phase III trial. J Clin
Oncol (Meeting Abstracts) 2007; 25(18 Suppl): 4511.
Wong R, Malthaner R. Combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy (without surgery) compared with radiotherapy
alone in localized carcinoma of the esophagus. Cochrane
Database Syst Rev 2006; CD002092.
Bedenne L, Michel P, Bouche O et al. Chemoradiation followed by surgery compared with chemoradiation alone in
squamous cancer of the esophagus: FFCD 9102. J Clin Oncol
2007; 25: 1160–8.
Kamangar F, Dores GM, Anderson WF. Patterns of cancer
incidence, mortality, and prevalence across five continents:
defining priorities to reduce cancer disparities in different
geographic regions of the World. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24:
2137–50.
Abdalla EK, Pisters PW. Staging and preoperative evaluation of upper gastrointestinal malignancies. Semin Oncol
2004; 31: 513–29.
van de Velde CJ. Resection for gastric cancer in the
community. Semin Oncol 2005; 32(6 Suppl 9): S90–S93.
Sakuramoto S, Sasako M, Yamaguchi T et al. Adjuvant
chemotherapy for gastric cancer with S-1, an oral fluoropyrimidine. N Engl J Med 2007; 357: 1810–20.

Chapter 9:
20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

Macdonald JS, Smalley SR, Benedetti J et al. Chemoradiotherapy after surgery compared with surgery alone for
adenocarcinoma of the stomach or gastroesophageal junction.
N Engl J Med 2001; 345: 725–30.
Rivera F, Vega-Villegas ME, Lopez-Brea MF. Chemotherapy
of advanced gastric cancer. Cancer Treat Rev 2007; 33:
315–24.
Webb A, Cunningham D, Scarffe JH et al. Randomized
trial comparing epirubicin, cisplatin, and fluorouracil
versus fluorouracil, doxorubicin, and methotrexate in
advanced esophagogastric cancer. J Clin Oncol 1997; 15:
261–7.
Wagner AD, Grothe W, Haerting J et al. Combination
chemotherapies in advanced gastric cancer: an updated
systematic review and meta-analysis. J Clin Oncol (Meeting
Abstracts) 2007; 25(18 Suppl): 4555.
Cunningham D, Starling N, Rao S et al. Capecitabine and
oxaliplatin for advanced esophagogastric cancer. N Engl J
Med 2008; 358: 36–46.
Kang YK, Kang WK, Shin DB et al. Capecitabine/cisplatin
versus 5-fluorouracil/cisplatin as first-line therapy in
patients with advanced gastric cancer: a randomised phase
III non-inferiority trial. Ann Oncol 2009; 20: 666–73.
Al-Batran S-E, Hartmann JT, Probst S et al. Phase III Trial
in metastatic gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma with fluorouracil, leucovorin plus either oxaliplatin or cisplatin: a
study of the arbeitsgemeinschaft internistische onkologie.
J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 1435–42.
Van Cutsem E, Moiseyenko VM, Tjulandin S et al. Phase III
study of docetaxel and cisplatin plus fluorouracil compared
with cisplatin and fluorouracil as first-line therapy for
advanced gastric cancer: a report of the V325 study group.
J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 4991–7.
Roth AD, Fazio N, Stupp R et al. Docetaxel, cisplatin, and
fluorouracil; docetaxel and cisplatin; and epirubicin, cisplatin, and fluorouracil as systemic treatment for advanced
gastric carcinoma: a randomized phase II trial of the Swiss
Group for Clinical Cancer Research. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25:
3217–23.
Tebbutt N, Sourjina T, Strickland A et al. ATTAX: randomised
phase II study evaluating weekly docetaxel-based chemotherapy combinations in advanced esophago- gastric cancer,
final results of an AGITG trial. J Clin Oncol (Meeting
Abstracts) 2007; 25(18 Suppl): 4528.
Boku N, Yamamoto S, Shirao K et al. Randomized phase III
study of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) alone versus combination of
irinotecan and cisplatin (CP) versus S-1 alone in advanced
gastric cancer (JCOG9912). J Clin Oncol (Meeting Abstracts)
2007; 25(18 Suppl): LBA4513.
Koizumi W, Narahara H, Hara T et al. S-1 plus cisplatin
versus S-1 alone for first-line treatment of advanced gastric
cancer (SPIRITS trial): a phase III trial. Lancet Oncol 2008;
9: 215–21.
Imamura H, IIishi H, Tsuburaya A et al. Randomized phase
III study of irinotecan plus S-1 (IRIS) versus S-1 alone as
first-line treatment for advanced gastric cancer (GC0301/
TOP-002). In: ASCO Gastrointestinal Cancers Symposium,
Orlando, Florida, 2008.
Alexakis N, Halloran C, Raraty M et al. Current standards
of surgery for pancreatic cancer. Br J Surg 2004; 91:
1410–27.
Iodice S, Gandini S, Maisonneuve P et al. Tobacco and the
risk of pancreatic cancer: a review and meta-analysis.
Langenbecks Arch Surg 2008; 393: 535–45.
Kalser MH, Ellenberg SS. Pancreatic cancer. Adjuvant
combined radiation and chemotherapy following curative
resection. Arch Surg 1985; 120: 899–903.
Neoptolemos JP, Stocken DD, Friess H et al. A randomized
trial of chemoradiotherapy and chemotherapy after

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

Gastrointestinal Cancer

179

resection of pancreatic cancer. N Engl J Med 2004; 350:
1200–10.
Stocken DD, Buchler MW, Dervenis C et al. Meta-analysis
of randomised adjuvant therapy trials for pancreatic cancer.
Br J Cancer 2005; 92: 1372–81.
Neuhaus P, Riess H, Post S et al. Deutsche Krebsgesellschaft
(CAO/AIO). CONKO-001: final results of the randomized,
prospective, multicenter phase III trial of adjuvant chemotherapy with gemcitabine versus observation in patients
with resected pancreatic cancer (PC). J Clin Oncol 2008;
26(May 20 Suppl): abstract LBA 4504.
Kosuge T, Ueno H, Matsuyama Y et al. A randomized phase
III study comparing gemcitabine monotherapy with observation in patients with resected pancreatic cancer. Eur J
Cancer Supplements 2007; 5: 260.
Regine WF, Winter KA, Abrams RA et al. Fluorouracil vs
gemcitabine chemotherapy before and after fluorouracilbased chemoradiation following resection of pancreatic
adenocarcinoma: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA 2008;
299: 1019–26.
Ghaneh P, Smith R, Tudor-Smith C et al. Neoadjuvant and
adjuvant strategies for pancreatic cancer. Eur J Surg Oncol
2008; 34: 297–305.
Sultana A, Tudur Smith C, Cunningham D et al. Systematic
review, including meta-analyses, on the management of
locally advanced pancreatic cancer using radiation/combined
modality therapy. Br J Cancer 2007; 96: 1183–90.
Chauffert B, Mornex F, Bonnetain F et al. Phase III trial
comparing intensive induction chemoradiotherapy (60 Gy,
infusional 5-FU and intermittent cisplatin) followed by
maintenance gemcitabine with gemcitabine alone for locally
advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer. Definitive results
of the 2000-01 FFCD/SFRO study. Ann Oncol 2008; 19:
1592–9.
Loehrer PJ, Powell ME, Cardenes HR et al. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group. A randomized phase III study of
gemcitabine in combination with radiation therapy versus
gemcitabine alone in patients with localized, unresectable
pancreatic cancer: E4201. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26(May 20
Suppl): abstract 4506.
Sultana A, Smith CT, Cunningham D et al. Meta-analyses
of chemotherapy for locally advanced and metastatic pancreatic cancer. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 2607–15.
Burris HA 3rd, Moore MJ, Andersen J et al. Improvements
in survival and clinical benefit with gemcitabine as firstline therapy for patients with advanced pancreas cancer: a
randomized trial. J Clin Oncol 1997; 15: 2403–13.
Tempero M, Plunkett W, Ruiz Van Haperen V et al.
Randomized phase II comparison of dose-intense gemcitabine: thirty-minute infusion and fixed dose rate infusion in
patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma. J Clin Oncol 2003;
21: 3402–8.
Poplin E, Levy DE, Berlin J et al. Phase III trial of gemcitabine (30-minute infusion) versus gemcitabine [fixed-doserate infusion (FDR)] versus gemcitabine + oxaliplatin
(GEMOX) in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer
(E6201). J Clin Oncol (Meeting Abstracts) 2006; 24(18 Suppl):
LBA4004.
Reni M, Cordio S, Milandri C et al. Gemcitabine versus
cisplatin, epirubicin, fluorouracil, and gemcitabine in
advanced pancreatic cancer: a randomised controlled multicentre phase III trial. Lancet Oncol 2005; 6: 369–76.
Louvet C, Labianca R, Hammel P et al. Gemcitabine in
combination with oxaliplatin compared with gemcitabine
alone in locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer:
results of a GERCOR and GISCAD phase III trial. J Clin
Oncol 2005; 23: 3509–16.
Cunningham D, Chau I, Stocken C et al. Phase III
randomised comparison of gemcitabine (GEM) versus

180

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

65.

66.

67.

68.
69.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
gemcitabine plus capecitabine (GEM-CAP) in patients with
advanced pancreatic cancer. Eur J Cancer Supplements 2005;
3: abstract PS11.
Herrmann R, Bodoky G, Ruhstaller T et al. Gemcitabine plus
capecitabine compared with gemcitabine alone in advanced
pancreatic cancer: a randomized, multicenter, phase III trial
of the Swiss Group for Clinical Cancer Research and the
Central European Cooperative Oncology Group. J Clin
Oncol 2007; 25: 2212–17.
Moore MJ, Goldstein D, Hamm J et al. Erlotinib plus
gemcitabine compared with gemcitabine alone in patients
with advanced pancreatic cancer: a phase III trial of the
National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group.
J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 1960–6.
Vervenne W, Bennouna J, Humblet Y et al. A randomized,
double-blind, placebo (P) controlled, multicenter phase III
trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of adding bevacizumab (B) to erlotinib (E) and gemcitabine (G) in patients
(pts) with metastatic pancreatic cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008;
26(May 20 Suppl): abstract 4507.
Riess H, Pelzer U, Stieler J et al. A randomized second line
trial in patients with gemcitabine refractory advanced
pancreatic cancer—CONKO 003. J Clin Oncol (Meeting
Abstracts) 2007; 25(18 Suppl): 4517.
Pelzer U, Kubica K, Stieler J et al. A randomized trial
in patients with gemcitabine refractory pancreatic cancer.
Final results of the CONKO 003 study. J Clin Oncol 2008;
26(May 20 Suppl): abstract 4508.
Ryder SD. Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in adults. Gut 2003;
52(Suppl 3): iii1–8.
Baccarani U, Isola M, Adani GL et al. Superiority of
transplantation versus resection for the treatment of small
hepatocellular carcinoma. Transpl Int 2008; 21: 247–54.
Rougier P, Mitry E, Barbare JC et al. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC): an update. Semin Oncol 2007; 34(2 Suppl 1):
S12–S20.
Mathurin P, Raynard B, Dharancy S et al. Meta-analysis:
evaluation of adjuvant therapy after curative liver resection
for hepatocellular carcinoma. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2003;
17: 1247–61.
Marelli L, Stigliano R, Triantos C et al. Transarterial therapy
for hepatocellular carcinoma: which technique is more effective? A systematic review of cohort and randomized studies.
Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 2007; 30: 6–25.
Nowak AK, Stockler MR, Chow PK et al. Use of tamoxifen
in advanced-stage hepatocellular carcinoma. A systematic
review. Cancer 2005; 103: 1408–14.
Llovet JM, Ricci S, Mazzaferro V et al. Sorafenib in
advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. N Engl J Med 2008;
359: 378–90.
Malhi H, Gores GJ. Cholangiocarcinoma: modern advances
in understanding a deadly old disease. J Hepatol 2006; 45:
856–67.
Mekeel KL, Hemming AW. Surgical management of
gallbladder carcinoma: a review. J Gastrointest Surg 2007;
11: 1188–93.
Ortner MA, Dorta G. Technology insight: photodynamic
therapy for cholangiocarcinoma. Nat Clin Pract Gastroenterol Hepatol 2006; 3: 459–67.
Eckel F, Schmid RM. Chemotherapy in advanced biliary
tract carcinoma: a pooled analysis of clinical trials. Br J
Cancer 2007; 96: 896–902.
Modlin IM, Oberg K, Chung DC et al. Gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours. Lancet Oncol 2008; 9: 61–72.
Lepage C, Rachet B, Coleman MP. Survival from malignant digestive endocrine tumors in England and Wales:
a population-based study. Gastroenterology 2007; 132:
899–904.

70.

71.

72.

73.

74.

75.

76.

77.

78.
79.

80.

81.
82.

83.

84.

85.

86.

87.

88.

89.

Plockinger U, Couvelard A, Falconi M et al. Consensus
guidelines for the management of patients with digestive
neuroendocrine tumours: well-differentiated tumour/
carcinoma of the appendix and goblet cell carcinoma.
Neuroendocrinology 2008; 87: 20–30.
Wright BE, Lee CC, Bilchik AJ. Hepatic cytoreductive
surgery for neuroendocrine cancer. Surgical Oncol Clin N
Am 2007; 16: 627–37.
Ramage JK, Davies AH, Ardill J et al. Guidelines for the management of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine (including
carcinoid) tumours. Gut 2005; 54(Suppl 4): iv1–16.
Kouvaraki MA, Ajani JA, Hoff P et al. Fluorouracil, doxorubicin, and streptozocin in the treatment of patients with
locally advanced and metastatic pancreatic endocrine carcinomas. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 4762–71.
Fine RL, Fogelman DR, Schreibman SM. Effective treatment
of neuroendocrine tumors with temozolomide and capecitabine. J Clin Oncol (Meeting Abstracts) 2005; 23(16 Suppl):
4216.
Fazio N, de Braud F, Delle Fave G et al. Interferon-alpha
and somatostatin analog in patients with gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine carcinoma: single agent or combination?
Ann Oncol 2007; 18: 13–19.
Dabaja BS, Suki D, Pro B et al. Adenocarcinoma of the small
bowel: presentation, prognostic factors, and outcome of
217 patients. Cancer 2004; 101: 518–26.
Locher C, Malka D, Boige V et al. Combination chemotherapy in advanced small bowel adenocarcinoma. Oncology 2005; 69: 290–4.
Jo WS, Chung DC. Genetics of hereditary colorectal cancer.
Semin Oncol 2005; 32: 11–23.
Lieberman DA, Prindiville S, Weiss DG et al. Risk factors
for advanced colonic neoplasia and hyperplastic polyps in
asymptomatic individuals. JAMA 2003; 290: 2959–67.
Chlebowski RT, Wactawski-Wende J, Ritenbaugh C et al.
Estrogen plus progestin and colorectal cancer in postmenopausal women. N Engl J Med 2004; 350: 991–1004.
Chau I, Cunningham D. Adjuvant therapy in colon cancer—
what, when and how? Ann Oncol 2006; 17: 1347–59.
Nagtegaal ID, Quirke P. What is the role for the circumferential margin in the modern treatment of rectal cancer?
J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 303–12.
Gunderson LL, Sargent DJ, Tepper JE et al. Impact of T and
N stage and treatment on survival and relapse in adjuvant
rectal cancer: a pooled analysis. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22:
1785–96.
Miyoshi M, Ueno H, Hashiguchi Y et al. Extent of mesorectal
tumor invasion as a prognostic factor after curative surgery
for T3 rectal cancer patients. Ann Surg 2006; 243: 492–8.
MERCURY Study Group. Diagnostic accuracy of preoperative magnetic resonance imaging in predicting curative
resection of rectal cancer: prospective observational study.
BMJ 2006; 333: 779.
Sargent DJ, Wieand HS, Haller DG et al. Disease-free survival
versus overall survival as a primary end point for adjuvant
colon cancer studies: individual patient data from 20,898
patients on 18 randomized trials. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23:
8664–70.
Twelves C, Wong A, Nowacki MP et al. Capecitabine as
adjuvant treatment for stage III colon cancer. N Engl J Med
2005; 352: 2696–704.
Kopec JA, Yothers G, Ganz PA et al. Quality of life in
operable colon cancer patients receiving oral compared with
intravenous chemotherapy: results from National Surgical
Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project Trial C-06. J Clin Oncol
2007; 25: 424–30.
Andre T, Boni C, Mounedji-Boudiaf L et al. Oxaliplatin,
fluorouracil, and leucovorin as adjuvant treatment for colon
cancer. N Engl J Med 2004; 350: 2343–51.

Chapter 9:
90.

91.

92.

93.

94.

95.

96.

97.

98.

99.

100.

101.

102.

103.

104.

105.

de Gramont A, Boni C, Navarro M et al. Oxaliplatin/5FU/
LV in adjuvant colon cancer: updated efficacy results of the
MOSAIC trial, including survival, with a median follow-up
of six years. J Clin Oncol (Meeting Abstracts) 2007; 25(18
Suppl): 4007.
Wolmark N, Wieand S, Kuebler PJ et al. A phase III trial
comparing FULV to FULV + oxaliplatin in stage II or III
carcinoma of the colon: survival results of NSABP Protocol
C-07. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26(May 20 Suppl): abstract LBA
4005.
Schmoll H-J, Cartwright T, Tabernero J et al. Phase III trial
of capecitabine plus oxaliplatin as adjuvant therapy for stage
III colon cancer: a planned safety analysis in 1,864 patients.
J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 102–9.
Saltz LB, Niedzwiecki D, Hollis D et al. Irinotecan fluorouracil plus leucovorin is not superior to fluorouracil plus
leucovorin alone as adjuvant treatment for stage III colon
cancer: results of CALGB 89803. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25:
3456–61.
Quasar Collaborative Group, Gray R, Barnwell J et al.
Adjuvant chemotherapy versus observation in patients with
colorectal cancer: a randomised study. Lancet 2007; 370:
2020–9.
de Gramont A. for the Adjuvant Colon Cancer End points
(ACCENT) Group. Association between 3-year (yr) disease
free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) delayed with
improved survival after recurrence (rec) in patients receiving cytotoxic adjuvant therapy for colon cancer: findings
from the 20,800 patient (pt) ACCENT dataset. J Clin Oncol
2008; 26(May 20 Suppl): abstract 4007.
Improved survival with preoperative radiotherapy in resectable rectal cancer. Swedish Rectal Cancer Trial. N Engl J
Med 1997; 336: 980–7.
Peeters KC, Marijnen CA, Nagtegaal ID et al. The TME trial
after a median follow-up of 6 years: increased local control
but no survival benefit in irradiated patients with resectable
rectal carcinoma. Ann Surg 2007; 246: 693–701.
Sebag-Montefiore D, Stephens RJ, Steele R, et al. Preoperative
radiotherapy versus selective postoperative chemoradiotherapy in patients with rectal cancer (MRC CR07 and
NCIC-CTG C016): a multicentre, randomised trial. Lancet
2009; 373: 811–20.
Wong RK, Tandan V, De Silva S et al. Pre-operative
radiotherapy and curative surgery for the management of
localized rectal carcinoma. Cochrane Database Syst Rev
2007; CD002102.
Colorectal Cancer Collaborative Group. Adjuvant radiotherapy for rectal cancer: a systematic overview of
8,507 patients from 22 randomised trials. Lancet 2001; 358:
1291–304.
Frykholm GJ, Glimelius B, Pahlman L. Preoperative or
postoperative irradiation in adenocarcinoma of the rectum:
final treatment results of a randomized trial and an evaluation of late secondary effects. Dis Colon Rectum 1993; 36:
564–72.
Krook JE, Moertel CG, Gunderson LL et al. Effective surgical adjuvant therapy for high-risk rectal carcinoma. N Engl
J Med 1991; 324: 709–15.
Douglass HO Jr, Moertel CG, Mayer RJ et al. Survival after
postoperative combination treatment of rectal cancer. N Engl
J Med 1986; 315: 1294–5.
Fisher B, Wolmark N, Rockette H et al. Postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy or radiation therapy for rectal cancer:
results from NSABP protocol R-01. J Natl Cancer Inst 1988;
80: 21–9.
O’Connell MJ, Martenson JA, Wieand HS et al. Improving
adjuvant therapy for rectal cancer by combining protractedinfusion fluorouracil with radiation therapy after curative
surgery. N Engl J Med 1994; 331: 502–7.

106.

107.

108.

109.

110.

111.

112.

113.

114.

115.

116.

117.

118.

119.

120.

121.

122.

123.

Gastrointestinal Cancer

181

Sauer R, Becker H, Hohenberger W et al. Preoperative versus postoperative chemoradiotherapy for rectal cancer. N
Engl J Med 2004; 351: 1731–40.
Gerard J-P, Conroy T, Bonnetain F et al. Preoperative
radiotherapy with or without concurrent fluorouracil and
leucovorin in T3-4 rectal cancers: results of FFCD 9203.
J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 4620–5.
Bosset JF, Collette L, Calais G et al. Chemotherapy with
preoperative radiotherapy in rectal cancer. N Engl J Med
2006; 355: 1114–23.
Bujko K, Nowacki MP, Nasierowska-Guttmejer A et al.
Long-term results of a randomized trial comparing preoperative short-course radiotherapy with preoperative conventionally fractionated chemoradiation for rectal cancer. Br J
Surg 2006; 93: 1215–23.
Desch CE, Benson AB III, Somerfield MR et al. colorectal
cancer surveillance: 2005 Update of an American Society of
Clinical Oncology practice guideline. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23:
8512–19.
Van Cutsem EJ, Oliveira J. Colon cancer: ESMO clinical
recommendations for diagnosis, adjuvant treatment and
follow-up. Ann Oncol 2008; 19(Suppl 2): ii29–30.
Schmoll H-J, Sargent D. Single agent fluorouracil for firstline treatment of advanced colorectal cancer as standard?
Lancet 2007; 370: 105–7.
Thirion P, Michiels S, Pignon JP et al. Modulation of fluorouracil by leucovorin in patients with advanced colorectal
cancer: an updated meta-analysis. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22:
3766–75.
de Gramont A, Bosset JF, Milan C et al. Randomized trial
comparing monthly low-dose leucovorin and fluorouracil
bolus with bimonthly high-dose leucovorin and fluorouracil
bolus plus continuous infusion for advanced colorectal cancer: a French intergroup study. J Clin Oncol 1997; 15:
808–15.
Mayer RJ. Oral versus intravenous fluoropyrimidines for
advanced colorectal cancer: By either route, it’s all the same.
J Clin Oncol 2001; 19: 4093–6.
Douillard JY, Hoff PM, Skillings JR et al. Multicenter phase
III study of uracil/tegafur and oral leucovorin versus fluorouracil and leucovorin in patients with previously untreated
metastatic colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2002; 20: 3605–16.
Cunningham D, Zalcberg J, Maroun J et al. Efficacy, tolerability and management of raltitrexed (Tomudex) monotherapy in patients with advanced colorectal cancer. a
review of phase II/III trials. Eur J Cancer 2002; 38: 478–86.
Cunningham D, Pyrhonen S, James RD et al. Randomised
trial of irinotecan plus supportive care versus supportive
care alone after fluorouracil failure for patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. Lancet 1998; 352: 1413–18.
Rougier P, Van Cutsem E, Bajetta E et al. Randomised trial
of irinotecan versus fluorouracil by continuous infusion after
fluorouracil failure in patients with metastatic colorectal
cancer. Lancet 1998; 352: 1407–12.
Saltz LB, Cox JV, Blanke C et al. Irinotecan plus fluorouracil and leucovorin for metastatic colorectal cancer. Irinotecan
Study Group. N Engl J Med 2000; 343: 905–14.
Fuchs CS, Marshall J, Mitchell E et al. Randomized, controlled
trial of irinotecan plus infusional, bolus, or oral fluoropyrimidines in first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal
cancer: Results from the BICC-C study. J Clin Oncol 2007;
25: 4779–86.
de Gramont A, Figer A, Seymour M et al. Leucovorin and
fluorouracil with or without oxaliplatin as first-line treatment in advanced colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2000; 18:
2938–47.
Grothey A, Deschler B, Kroening H et al. Phase III study of
bolus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)/folinic acid (FA) (Mayo) vs
weekly high-dose 24h 5-FU infusion/FA + oxaliplatin in

182

124.

125.

126.

127.

128.

129.

130.

131.

132.

133.

134.

135.

136.

137.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
advanced colorectal cancer. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2002;
21: 129a.
Goldberg RM, Sargent DJ, Morton RF et al. A Randomized
controlled trial of fluorouracil plus leucovorin, irinotecan,
and oxaliplatin combinations in patients with previously
untreated metastatic colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2004;
22: 23–30.
Rothenberg ML, Oza AM, Bigelow RH et al. Superiority of
oxaliplatin and fluorouracil-leucovorin compared with either
therapy alone in patients with progressive colorectal cancer
after irinotecan and fluorouracil-leucovorin: interim results
of a phase III trial. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 2059–69.
Cassidy J, Clarke S, Diaz-Rubio E et al. Randomized phase
iii study of capecitabine plus oxaliplatin compared with
fluorouracil/folinic acid plus oxaliplatin as first-line therapy
for metastatic colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26:
2006–12.
Tournigand C, Andre T, Achille E et al. FOLFIRI followed
by FOLFOX6 or the reverse sequence in advanced colorectal
cancer: a randomized GERCOR study. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22:
229–37.
Colucci G, Gebbia V, Paoletti G et al. Phase III randomized
trial of FOLFIRI versus FOLFOX4 in the treatment of
advanced colorectal cancer: a multicenter study of the
Gruppo Oncologico Dell’Italia Meridionale. J Clin Oncol
2005; 23: 4866–75.
Ashley AC, Sargent DJ, Alberts SR et al. Updated efficacy
and toxicity analysis of irinotecan and oxaliplatin (IROX):
intergroup trial N9741 in first-line treatment of metastatic
colorectal cancer. Cancer 2007; 110: 670–7.
Souglakos J, Androulakis N, Syrigos K et al. FOLFOXIRI
(folinic acid, 5-fluorouracil, oxaliplatin and irinotecan) vs
FOLFIRI (folinic acid, 5-fluorouracil and irinotecan) as
first-line treatment in metastatic colorectal cancer (MCC): a
multicentre randomised phase III trial from the Hellenic
Oncology Research Group (HORG). Br J Cancer 2006; 94:
798–805.
Falcone A, Ricci S, Brunetti I et al. Phase III trial of infusional fluorouracil, leucovorin, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan
(FOLFOXIRI) compared with infusional fluorouracil, leucovorin, and irinotecan (FOLFIRI) as first-line treatment for
metastatic colorectal cancer: the Gruppo Oncologico Nord
Ovest. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 1670–6.
Hurwitz H, Fehrenbacher L, Novotny W et al. Bevacizumab
plus irinotecan, fluorouracil, and leucovorin for metastatic
colorectal cancer. N Engl J Med 2004; 350: 2335–42.
Kabbinavar FF, Hambleton J, Mass RD et al. Combined
analysis of efficacy: the addition of bevacizumab to fluorouracil/leucovorin improves survival for patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 3706–12.
Fuchs CS, Marshall J, Barrueco J. Randomized, controlled
trial of irinotecan plus infusional, bolus, or oral fluoropyrimidines in first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal
cancer: updated results from the BICC-C study. J Clin Oncol
2008; 26: 689–90.
Hochster HS, Hart LL, Ramanathan RK et al. Safety and
efficacy of oxaliplatin/fluoropyrimidine regimens with or
without bevacizumab as first-line treatment of metastatic
colorectal cancer (mCRC): Final analysis of the TREE-Study.
J Clin Oncol (Meeting Abstracts) 2006; 24(18 Suppl): 3510.
Saltz LB, Clarke S, Diaz-Rubio E et al. Bevacizumab in
combination with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy as firstline therapy in metastatic colorectal cancer: a randomized
phase III study. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 2013–19.
Giantonio BJ, Catalano PJ, Meropol NJ et al. Bevacizumab
in combination with oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and leucovorin
(FOLFOX4) for previously treated metastatic colorectal
cancer: results from the Eastern Cooperative Oncology
Group Study E3200. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 1539–44.

138. Porebska I, Harlozinska A, Bojarowski T. Expression of the
tyrosine kinase activity growth factor receptors (EGFR, ERB
B2, ERB B3) in colorectal adenocarcinomas and adenomas.
Tumour Biol 2000; 21: 105–15.
139. Cunningham D, Humblet Y, Siena S et al. Cetuximab monotherapy and cetuximab plus irinotecan in irinotecan-refractory
metastatic colorectal cancer. N Engl J Med 2004; 351: 337–45.
140. Jonker DJ, O’Callaghan CJ, Karapetis CS et al. Cetuximab
for the treatment of colorectal cancer. N Engl J Med 2007;
357: 2040–8.
141. Sobrero AF, Maurel J, Fehrenbacher L et al. EPIC: Phase III
trial of cetuximab plus irinotecan after fluoropyrimidine and
oxaliplatin failure in patients with metastatic colorectal
cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 2311-19.
142. Polikoff J, Mitchell EP, Badarinath S et al. Cetuximab plus
FOLFOX for colorectal cancer (EXPLORE): preliminary efficacy analysis of a randomized phase III trial. J Clin Oncol
(Meeting Abstracts) 2005; 23(16 Suppl): 3574.
143. Van Cutsem E, Kohne C-H, Hitre E, et al. Cetuximab and
Chemotherapy as Initial Treatment for Metastatic Colorectal
Cancer. N Engl J Med 2009; 360: 1408–17.
144. Van Cutsem E, Peeters M, Siena S et al. Open-label phase
III trial of panitumumab plus best supportive care compared with best supportive care alone in patients with
chemotherapy-refractory metastatic colorectal cancer. J Clin
Oncol 2007; 25: 1658–64.
145. Amado RG, Wolf M, Peeters M et al. Wild-type KRAS is
required for panitumumab efficacy in patients with metastatic
colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008: JCO 2007; 14: 7116.
146. Hecht JR, Mitchell E, Chidiac T, et al. A randomized phase
IIIB trial of chemotherapy, bevacizumab, and panitumumab
compared with chemotherapy and bevacizumab alone for
metastatic colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2009; 27: 672–80.
147. Saltz LB, Lenz HJ, Kindler HL et al. Randomized phase II
trial of cetuximab, bevacizumab, and irinotecan compared with
cetuximab and bevacizumab alone in irinotecan-refractory
colorectal cancer: the BOND-2 study. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25:
4557–61.
148. Tol J, Koopman M, Cats A, et al. Chemotherapy, bevacizumab, and cetuximab in metastatic colorectal cancer.
N Engl J Med 2009; 360: 563–72.
149. Nordlinger B, Sorbye H, Glimelius B et al. Perioperative
chemotherapy with FOLFOX4 and surgery versus surgery
alone for resectable liver metastases from colorectal cancer
(EORTC Intergroup trial 40983): a randomised controlled
trial. Lancet 2008; 371: 1007–16.
150. Kemeny MM, Adak S, Gray B et al. Combined-modality
treatment for resectable metastatic colorectal carcinoma
to the liver: surgical resection of hepatic metastases in
combination with continuous infusion of chemotherapy—an
intergroup study. J Clin Oncol 2002; 20: 1499–505.
151. Daling JR, Madeleine MM, Johnson LG et al. Human
papillomavirus, smoking, and sexual practices in the etiology of anal cancer. Cancer 2004; 101: 270–80.
152. Cummings BJ. Current management of anal canal cancer.
Semin Oncol 2005; 32(6 Suppl 9): S123–S128.
153. Ajani JA, Winter KA, Gunderson LL et al. Fluorouracil,
mitomycin, and radiotherapy vs fluorouracil, cisplatin, and
radiotherapy for carcinoma of the anal canal: a randomized
controlled trial. JAMA 2008; 299: 1914–21.
154. Ajani JA, Rodriguez G, Bodoky G et al. Multicenter phase
III comparison of cisplatin/S-1 (CS) with cisplatin/5-FU
(CF) as first-line therapy in patients with advanced gastric
cancer (FLAGS). Abstr 8. In 2009 Gastrointestinal Cancers
Symposium.
155. Waters JS, Norman A, Cunningham D, et al. Long-term
survival after epirubicin, cisplatin and fluorouracil for
gastric cancer: results of a randomized trial. Br J Cancer
1999; 80: 269–72.

Chapter 9:
156. Ross P, Nicolson M, Cunningham D, et al. Prospective
randomized trial comparing mitomycin, cisplatin, and protracted venous-infusion fluorouracil (PVI 5-FU) with epirubicin, cisplatin, and PVI 5-FU in advanced esophagogastric
cancer. J Clin Oncol 2002; 20: 1996–2004.
157. Dank M, Zaluski J, Barone C, et al. Randomized phase 3
trial of irinotecan (CPT-11) + 5FU/folinic acid (FA) vs CDDP
+ 5FU in 1st-line advanced gastric cancer patients. J Clin
Oncol (Meeting Abstracts) 2005; 23: 4003.
158. Klinkenbijl JH, Jeekel J, Sahmoud T, et al. Adjuvant radiotherapy and 5-fluorouracil after curative resection of cancer
of the pancreas and periampullary region: phase III trial of
the EORTC gastrointestinal tract cancer cooperative group.
Ann Surg 1999; 230: 776–82.
159. Moore MJ, Hamm J, Dancey J, et al. Comparison of gemcitabine versus the matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor BAY
12-9566 in patients with advanced or metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas: a phase III trial of the National
Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group. J Clin
Oncol 2003; 21: 3296–302.
160. Van Cutsem E, van de Velde H, Karasek P, et al. Phase III
trial of gemcitabine plus tipifarnib compared with gemcitabine plus placebo in advanced pancreatic cancer. J Clin
Oncol 2004; 22: 1430–8.
161. Philip PA, Benedetti J, Fenoglio-Preiser C, et al. Phase III
study of gemcitabine [G] plus cetuximab [C] versus

162.

163.

164.

165.

166.

Gastrointestinal Cancer

183

gemcitabine in patients [pts] with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma [PC]: SWOG S0205 study.
J Clin Oncol (Meeting Abstracts) 2007; 25: LBA4509.
Kindler HL, Niedzwiecki D, Hollis D, et al. A double-blind,
placebo-controlled, randomized phase III trial of gemcitabine
(G) plus bevacizumab (B) versus gemcitabine plus placebo
(P) in patients (pts) with advanced pancreatic cancer (PC):
A preliminary analysis of Cancer and Leukemia Group B
(CALGB. J Clin Oncol (Meeting Abstracts) 2007; 25: 4508.
Van Cutsem E, Labianca R, Hossfeld D et al. Randomized
phase III trial comparing infused irinotecan/5-ﬂuorouracil
(5-FU)/folinic acid (IF) versus 5-FU/FA (F) in stage III colon
cancer patients (pts). (PETACC 3). J Clin Oncol (Meeting
Abstracts) 2005; 23: LBA8.
Ychou M, Raoul JL, Douillard JY, et al. A phase III randomised trial of LV5FU2 + irinotecan versus LV5FU2 alone
in adjuvant high-risk colon cancer (FNCLCC Accord02/
FFCD9802). Ann Oncol 2009; 20: 674–80.
Kabbinavar F, Hurwitz HI, Fehrenbacher L, et al. Phase II,
randomized trial comparing bevacizumab plus fluorouracil
(FU)/leucovorin (LV) with FU/LV alone in patients with
metastatic colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 60–5.
Kabbinavar FF, Schulz J, McCleod M, et al. Addition of
bevacizumab to bolus fluorouracil and leucovorin in firstline metastatic colorectal cancer: results of a randomized
phase II trial. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 3697–705.

10
1
Cancers of the Genitourinary Tract
Ronald de Wit and Cora N. Sternberg

been conducted or are in progress that may shed new light
on existing controversies (1,2).
The majority of men receiving radical treatment will
survive 10 years following optimal RT or radical prostatectomy. RT is often selected for patients with coexisting medical problems that would preclude major surgery. Patients
treated by RT tend to be older and have higher grade, higher
stage tumors, and higher PSA levels. The younger, healthier
men with smaller, localized tumors more often undergo
surgery. The strategy of initial conservative management
and delayed hormone therapy is an alternative for elderly
patients with Grade 1 or 2 minimal volume tumors (2).
After RT, local control is maintained in 92% of Stage
T1 and 75% of Stage T2 tumors, with an overall survival
of 82% and 55% at 5 and 10 years, respectively. Biopsies of
the prostate may reveal viable cancer cells in up to 90% of
patients, however, at five years. Sexual impotence is
observed in 14% to 46% of patients after RT and in 7% to
13% after interstitial implantation. New techniques using
three-dimensional conformal external beam RT and intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) may permit
delivery of a higher dose within the tumor and minimal
dose to the surrounding tissue, decreasing both acute and
late toxicity (3).
Additional (adjuvant) hormonal androgen deprivation therapy, when started simultaneously with RT, may
improve local control and survival in patients with locally
advanced prostate cancer (4). An European Organisation
for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) comparative
trial of external beam RT versus RT plus three years of
goserelin (an agonist analogue of gonadotropin-releasing
hormone) has shown a survival benefit at five years. When
the use of six months versus three years was evaluated,
patients who underwent three years of hormonal therapy
had an advantage in terms of biochemical progression-free
survival (PFS) (5).
Radical prostatectomy entails the removal of seminal
vesicles and ampullae of the vas as well as the prostate
with its capsule. Modifications in the surgical technique
have led to improved continence and potency rates (2,3).
Excluding patients with positive seminal vesicles or lymph
nodes, the five-year actuarial PFS is 87% for patients with
negative margins, 60% for those with focally positive margins, and 35% for those with extensive positive margins (6).
Several studies have shown that additional RT for patients
with pT3 prostate carcinoma improves biochemical failurefree survival, especially in patients with positive surgical
margins (7). A report on long-term follow-up in a study
from the South West Oncology Group (SWOG) of immediate

CANCER OF THE PROSTATE
Prostate cancer is the most common cancer (excluding skin
cancer) in men and the second leading cause of death from
cancer, exceeded only by lung cancer. It primarily affects
men over the age of 70 years.
In all, 89% of men diagnosed with prostate cancer
will survive at least five years and 63% will survive at least
10 years. Substantial controversy exists about the advisability and effectiveness of screening, the most appropriate staging evaluations, and the optimal management of
patients with all stages of prostate cancer. For metastatic
disease, hormonal androgen deprivation therapy has been
the mainstay of treatment for many years. Uncertainty
exists about optimal therapy and timing. For patients who
have become refractory to androgen ablation, chemotherapy
was recently recognized to prolong survival.

Staging
The International Union Against Cancer (UICC) 1997
tumor, node, metastasis (TNM) staging classification is
generally used for prostate cancer. Measurement of serum
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is useful both in diagnosis
and in staging.

Pathology
Over 90% of prostate cancers are adenocarcinomas. Other
histologic variants include small cell carcinoma, transitional,
and squamous cell carcinomas. Although several pathologic grading systems for adenocarcinoma of the prostate
have been developed, the Gleason grading system, based
on the glandular pattern of the tumor, has gained most
acceptance (Table 10.1). Both the predominant and the second most prevalent architectural patterns are identified
and assigned a grade from 1 (the most differentiated) to 5
(undifferentiated). Because both patterns are influential
in predicting prognosis, the Gleason score is obtained by
adding the sum of the primary and the secondary grades.

Localized Prostate Cancer
Due to the increasing use of screening and PSA, 60% of
all prostate cancers are discovered while they are still confined to the prostate. The five-year relative survival rate
for localized prostate cancer in the United States approaches
100%. Management options include radiation therapy (RT),
radical surgery, and conservative management. The ideal
approach for every individual patient remains unclear, as
prospective comparative data are limited. Few trials have
184

Chapter 10:

Table 10.1
Prostate
Score 1
Score 2
Score 3
Score 4
Score 5

Gleason Grading System for Adenocarcinoma of the

Lobular masses, uniform small glands, no invasion
Lobular masses, irregular glands, “broad front” invasion,
± cribriform pattern
Irregular glands, infiltrative invasion, cribriform pattern,
papillary pattern
Sheets of large cells with pale cytoplasm, infiltrative
invasion, ± glands (like renal cell carcinoma)
Sheets of anaplastic cells, ± foci of glands (like small cell
carcinoma)

RT versus observation in PT3 prostate cancer recently
demonstrated an overall survival benefit, 47% versus 37%.

Advanced Disease
Approximately 30% to 35% of patients with prostate cancer
will present with regional or metastatic tumors, whereas
an additional 25% will develop metastases in the course of
the disease. Metastases predominantly occur in the bone.
In patients presenting with metastatic disease and those
treated with androgen deprivation therapy, the median
survival is 2.5 years.

Hormone-Naive Disease
The mainstay of therapy is androgen deprivation, which is
palliative rather than curative. Hormonal therapy can produce objective tumor regression in soft tissue sites in more
than 80% of cases, normalization of PSA in 70%, and an
improvement in the bone scan in 30% to 50% of cases.
Despite the initially highly active androgen deprivation
therapy, eventually 90% of patients will die within three
years. Surgical castration (bilateral orchiectomy) has been
the gold standard of androgen deprivation therapy for many
years. Luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH)
agonists result in continuous stimulation of pituitary
receptors for LHRH, paradoxically resulting in decreased
secretion of LH and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH).
Testosterone production by the testis is then turned off
achieving serum levels of testosterone similar to those
obtained by orchiectomy. Antiandrogens interfere with
testosterone binding to the androgen receptor (AR).
The decision to use an LHRH analogue or to perform
orchiectomy as the initial hormone treatment for advanced
prostate cancer is based on the preferences of the patient
and the physician. LHRH agonists may cause an initial
increase in testosterone levels. In patients with widespread
metastatic disease, this can cause dangerous clinical sequela
and can be circumvented by concurrent administration of
antiandrogens during the initial weeks of therapy. Direct
LHRH antagonists are also being developed and may circumvent this flare phenomenon as these agents directly
inhibit the release of LH and FSH.
Combined androgen blockade (CAB) was conceived
as a means of blocking the adrenal androgens. It has been
evaluated by many investigators in patients with metastatic
prostate cancer with contradictory results. Although three
studies demonstrated a positive effect with CAB, numerous trials have failed to demonstrate any benefit to CAB.
A meta-analysis including 27 published randomized trials
showed no survival benefit at two years.

Cancers of the Genitourinary Tract

185

The antiandrogens are generally divided into steroidal and nonsteroidal compounds. The nonsteroidal antiandrogens (flutamide, nilufamide, and biculatamide) are the
most frequently used agents. These agents are thought
to be therapeutically equivalent, with clinical differences
primarily related to adverse-effect profiles and half-lives.
Of note, the antiandrogens alone do not result in castrate
levels of testosterone and are generally not considered
sufficient treatment for use in overt metastatic disease.
The advantage to using these agents alone, though, is the
potential for preserving sexual potency, and for this reason,
these agents are used as initial therapy in patients with
biochemical (PSA) failure after local treatment. The timing
of treatment of patients with evidence of biochemical
failure remains controversial (8).

Hormone-Refractory Prostate Cancer
Hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC) is defined as
a progressive disease despite serum castration levels of the
testosterone. The development of hormonal resistance predictably occurs after androgen deprivation. HRPC reflects
a heterogeneous patient population. Formerly, HRPC consisted of symptomatic patients with impaired performance status. Now, due to intensive PSA-guided follow-up,
patients may have HRPC without having extensive macroscopic disease. The knowledge that tumor has escaped
preliminary hormonal control (rising PSA) is disturbing to
most patients and further therapies are usually requested (8).
This term is gradually being replaced by the term castrationresistant prostate cancer (CRPC), as patients may still
respond to hormonal maneuvers after failing initial hormonal therapy.
The median time to progression following androgen deprivation therapy is 18 months. Median survival of
patients with HRPC in older studies was approximately
12 months. Due to stage migration, this is no longer entirely
realistic and different categories of patients must be taken
into account in the interpretation of the results of trials in
HRPC and individual patient management. An American
study recently developed a prognostic model, based on
lactic dehydrogenase (LDH), PSA, alkaline phosphatase,
Gleason sum, ECOG performance status, hemoglobin, and
presence of visceral metastases, that discriminated between
four risk groups, the worst group having a median survival duration of 7.5 months and the best group surviving
a median of 27 months.
In addition, interpretation of trials in advanced prostate cancer has been confounded by the lack of measurable
disease. Bone is the dominant site of metastases in 90% of
patients with metastatic prostatic cancer. For this reason,
objectively measurable criteria for response evaluation are
lacking in a majority of patients. In many patients, bone
pain and decreased performance status are predominant
and relief from these symptoms is as important as the
prolongation of survival. Use of surrogate end points, such
as reduction in PSA or improvement in pain, has been used
to evaluate new therapies. Although the value of PSA
decline as a measure of therapeutic benefit has not been
definitively established, recent studies have indicated that
a >30% decrease in PSA at three months is the best surrogate measure for survival (9,10) associated with prolonged survival. New guidelines have been developed for

186

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

the conduct of clinical trials based upon some of these
considerations (11).

Second-Line Hormonal Therapy
Second-line hormonal treatment may exert its effects by
diminishing circulating adrenal androgens causing tumor
regression by suppressing any remaining hormone-dependent
prostatic cancer cells. A variety of hormonal therapies,
including both nonsteroidal and steroidal antiandrogens,
have been used as second-line therapy with modest results.
Measurable disease regression is rare and responses are of
brief duration. An alternative agent that blocks the adrenal
production of testosterone by CYP17 blockade is ketoconazole. However, ketoconazole is a rather weak CYP17 inhibitor, and a much more potent agent with this target is
abiraterone. Recent data indicate that this agent is well
tolerated and highly efficacious in HRPC. Randomized
studies are planned incorporating the addition of dexamethasone to augment the effect of the drug.
An interesting and clinically meaningful observation
is the “antiandrogen withdrawal syndrome.” Up to 40% of
patients failing CAB will respond when the antiandrogen
is discontinued. This paradoxical response was first documented with flutamide withdrawal, but was subsequently
shown to occur with other nonsteroidal antiandrogens such
as bicalutamide and nilutamide. Long-term androgen ablation with antiandrogens may lead to increased expression
and activity and mutation of ARs. This may explain why
discontinuation of the antiandrogen may lead to a decrease
in PSA. It should be pointed out that no second-line hormonal manipulation has been proven to have led to an
increase in survival.

Chemotherapy
Clinical results of chemotherapy in HRPC have been disappointing for many years. The objective response rate to
chemotherapy in a total of 26 studies conducted between
1987 and 1991 was only 8.7% (95% CI 6.4–9.0%). In those
years, clinical investigators were reluctant to treat asymptomatic patients, especially if the disease could not be evaluated using standard measurability criteria. Consequently,
the majority of patients enrolled in studies had widespread
disease that had already caused impaired performance status, which had an additional negative impact on the effectiveness of any type of systemic treatment.
With the recognition that PSA levels were correlated
with survival and could serve as a surrogate end point for
evaluable disease, and the development of “palliative measurement scales” by Canadian investigators (pain, analgesic consumption, performance status, and quality of life,
QOL), prospective clinical studies were designed to enroll
hormone-refractory patients earlier in the course of their
disease.
Using these parameters, a randomized study in
Canada and a study in the United States showed mitoxantrone plus prednisone or hydrocorticone to be beneficial.
Although there was no measurable improvement in survival,
the mitoxantrone–prednisone combination was accepted
standard treatment for HRPC.
In the same time frame, proof-of-concept trials were
being conducted using the taxanes. Several docetaxel-based
regimens were investigated: a three-weekly (q3w) regimen,

a weekly (q1w) regimen (due to the assumption that this
regimen would be better tolerated in an elderly population), and combinations of docetaxel and estramustine.
Promising objective response rates and median survival
prompted the initiation of two large randomized Phase III
studies, TAX 327 and SWOG 99-16, that were designed to
test for a survival benefit (12,13).
TAX 327 was a three-arm study in which 1006 patients
were randomized to receive either q3w docetaxel (75 mg/m2)
plus low-dose prednisone (10 mg daily), docetaxel q1w
(30 mg/m2 for five of six weeks) plus prednisone, or mitoxantrone (12 mg/m2 q3w) plus prednisone (12). The treatment duration was 30 weeks in all three arms. Patients
who received the docetaxel q3w regimen had significantly
longer survival and higher PSA and pain response rates
compared with those who received mitoxantrone. The
median survival was 18.9 months in the q3w docetaxel arm
compared with 16.5 months in the mitoxantrone arm; a
2.4-month survival benefit that corresponded to a 24%
reduction in the risk of death [hazard ratio (HR) of death
0.76 (95% CI 0.62–0.92)]. The docetaxel q1w regimen showed
a trend toward survival benefit compared with mitoxantrone, but this did not reach statistical significance. A significantly greater proportion of patients who were treated
with q3w docetaxel experienced a reduction in pain (35%
vs. 22%, p = 0.01), a ≥50% reduction in PSA (45% vs. 32%,
p < 0.001), and an improvement in QOL (22% vs. 13%,
p = 0.009) compared with patients who received mitoxantrone. Grade 3/4 toxicity was infrequent other than neutropenia (32%), but the incidence of febrile neutropenia during
the entire course of chemotherapy was, at most, 3%.
An updated survival analysis from the TAX 327 study
showed that the significant improvement in survival associated with the q3w docetaxel regimen compared with the
mitoxantrone regimen was sustained at three years (19.2
vs. 16.3 months, HR 0.79, p = 0.004) (14). The updated
analysis also confirmed previous findings that the survival
benefit associated with q3w docetaxel is relevant in all
investigated subgroups; the HR for overall survival favored
docetaxel regardless of age (<68 years, ≥68 years) and pain
versus no pain, and for those with baseline PSA above and
below the median value of 115 ng/ml.
The SWOG 99-16 study was designed on the premise
that the combination of two cytotoxic agents, docetaxel with
estramustine, would have a greater efficacy than the combination of one cytotoxic agent with a steroid (13). As such,
SWOG 99-16 was a head-to-head comparison of docetaxel
(60 mg/m2, day, q3w) plus estramustine (280 mg, TID, days
1–5, q3w) with mitoxantrone (12 mg/m2, day 1, q3w) plus
prednisone (10 mg daily). The patient characteristics were
quite similar to those of the TAX 327 study, as were the
survival outcomes; patients who received the docetaxel plus
estramustine regimen experienced a significant improvement in overall survival of 1.9 months compared with
those who received mitoxantrone plus prednisone (17.5 vs.
15.6 months, p = 0.02).
The addition of estramustine to docetaxel, though,
was associated with a significant increase in grade 3–5
gastrointestinal and cardiovascular toxicity compared
with mitoxantrone plus prednisone. The most frequent cardiovascular toxicities were thrombosis and pulmonary
embolism that were attributed to the estrogenic effects of
estramustine.

Chapter 10:

The results of these two studies clearly demonstrate
that chemotherapy is an effective approach for patients
with metastatic HRPC. Three-weekly docetaxel with lowdose prednisone was associated with the most favorable
outcomes; q1w docetaxel was possibly inferior in terms of
efficacy and did not appear to be better tolerated than q3w
administration in terms of nonhematological toxicities. The
use of estramustine combined with docetaxel was associated with increased toxicity and did not appear to have
improved efficacy compared with the q3w docetaxel plus
prednisone regimen. As such, the docetaxel q3w plus lowdose prednisone is now considered the standard treatment
for patients with metastatic HRPC (15).
The TAX 327 and SWOG 99-16 results were the first
demonstration of a survival advantage for chemotherapy
with docetaxel in patients with metastatic HRPC. Some
physicians interpret these data with caution, and indeed it
is often asked whether a 2.5-month increase in survival is
enough to warrant the use of chemotherapy in an elderly
patient population. Although in isolation this may appear
to be a reasonable argument, it is important to consider
two key facts about these results that are not immediately
apparent. First, the increase in overall survival gained by
the use of q3w docetaxel was not a 2.5-month increase
compared with no therapy, but it was in fact, a 2.5-month
increase over the benefit provided by the comparator arm,
which also comprised effective chemotherapy (i.e., mitoxantrone), which was considered the standard of care. Second,
in both trials, up to 40% of patients who were randomized
to the mitoxantrone arm of the study crossed over to receive
docetaxel after failure on mitoxantrone therapy. These
patients were not excluded from the survival analysis.
Despite the confounding effect of second-line treatment using
the more effective therapy, the survival benefit associated
with the q3w docetaxel regimen remained significant (16).
Many physicians support the notion that chemotherapy should be deferred until the disease becomes symptomatic in order to delay the exposure of patients to the
potential side effects of chemotherapy. Although this may
be a suitable approach in some patients with indolent
disease, there are many patients in whom further disease
progression and the development of symptoms is more
imminent and for whom the start of chemotherapy should
not be postponed. A secondary analysis of the Tax 327
cohort evidenced that pretreatment PSA and PSA doubling
time (PSADT) were both independent predictors of survival (17). Also, patients with a short PSADT (<55 days)
had a lower chance of survival compared with patients
who had a more indolent PSADT. A multivariate analysis
was conducted that also incorporated these PSA kinetics.
It was found that well-established prognostic factors such
as the presence or absence of pain, performance status, the
number of metastatic sites (three or more), presence of liver
metastases, baseline hemoglobin and alkaline phosphatase,
and type of progressions at baseline (measurable soft tissue
disease or bone scan progression vs. PSA only or nonmeasurable disease progression) all had independent prognostic importance for survival. Also, the baseline PSA
concentration remained highly statistically significant (p <
0.001). PSADT remained borderline statistical significant in
the multivariate model (17).
The consideration of prognostic parameters for survival is extremely informative and could facilitate treatment

Cancers of the Genitourinary Tract

187

decisions. Nomograms are useful tools in this setting and
one such item has been constructed using the above multivariate factors for survival from the TAX 327 results (17).
Through assessment of a number of factors including PSA
concentration, PSADT, pain at baseline, the presence of
new metastatic sites, alkaline phosphatase, and hemoglobin, a patient’s disease status can be assigned points that
can be translated into one-, two-, and five-year probabilities of survival for that patient. The use of nomograms
could facilitate the tailoring of therapy to suit the pattern
of disease on an individual basis. Those patients who have
no actual symptoms, but are more likely to develop symptoms in the near future because of bone scan progression
and/or unfavorable PSA kinetics should be considered as
candidates for docetaxel chemotherapy (Table 10.2).
Secondary analyses using the TAX 327 and SWOG
99-16 databases have also revealed that both PSA decline
and pain response are only modest surrogate measures
for benefit and survival, especially during the first three
months of chemotherapy (16). As both PSA and pain may
increase during the initial cycles of chemotherapy before the
start to decrease, these early changes may best be ignored
unless there is clinically compelling evidence of disease
progression (11,16).
It is important to note that the docetaxel Phase 3 data
were obtained in patients with documented metastatic
disease. Therefore, these results cannot be extrapolated
to earlier disease in patients with rising PSA without
evidence of metastases.
As it is assumed that in the setting of HRPC some
clones of the tumor spread may have retained their sensitively to hormonal manipulations, patients with HRPC are
usually kept on androgen ablation therapy, even during
cytotoxic treatment.

Radiation Therapy
Bone pain is often a debilitating component of metastatic
prostate cancer. Single 8 Gy fractions are convenient both
for administration and for pain relief (18). The β-emitting
radioisotope 89Strontium is an alternative means of palliating bone pain but may cause prolonged myelosuppression,
which may prevent the use of chemotherapeutic options.
Table 10.2
Cancer

Treatment Algorithm for Hormone-Refractory Prostate

HRPC
- Failing LHRH (+ castrate level)
or
- Failing MAB + AA withdrawal attempt

Further hormonal
manipulations

- Some cases of asymptomic
PSA progression

- All symptomatic cases
Docetaxel

- Bone scan progression if
accompanied by unfavorable PSA
kinetics

188

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Bisphosphonates
Bisphosphonates are primarily known for their ability to
inhibit osteoclast-mediated bone resorption and are widely
used to delay skeletal complications in patients with breast
cancer and multiple myeloma. Conventional bisphosphonates failed to show objective benefit in patients with prostate cancer and (mostly) osteoblastic bone lesions. New
generation bisphosphonates, however, have shown to be
more potent osteoblast mediators. Zoledronic acid significantly reduced the proportion of patients who experienced
skeletal complications and extended the time to first skeletal complications. Other promising agents to prevent
skeletal-related events include monoclonal antibodies to
RANK-ligand (densumab).

New Developments
Increased insight into the biology of prostate cancer has
led to new developments in immunotherapy, dendritic cell
therapy, and gene vaccination therapy (19). Molecular targeted small molecule therapy and monoclonal antibodies
that target signaling cascades in tumor growth have been
identified, and antiangiogenesis agents such as bevacizumab and VEGF-TRAP are being evaluated in combination with docetaxel in large Phase IIII clinical trials. So too
are endothelin A antagonists (atrasentan A and ZD 4504)
under evaluation in combination with docetaxel or prior to
docetaxel in clinical trials. Novel chemotherapeutic agents
that work at different points in the cell cycle are other
options for preclinical and clinical development. Also, a
number of trials are in progress to investigate docetaxel
chemotherapy earlier in the course of the disease, that is, in
the neoadjuvant setting or noncastrate metastatic disease.
Abiraterone acetate is an emerging agent that inhibits
17 α-hydroxylase and C17,20-lyase, and has been demonstrated to decrease serum androgen to undetectable levels.
It has been studied both in patients with metastatic HRPC
who have progressed on docetaxel and in patients who have
not received chemotherapy (20). A Phase III trial is comparing placebo-prednisolone with abiraterone-prednisolone
in patients progressing after docetaxel.
Prostate cancer continues to rely on AR signaling,
which remains a target of hormonal therapy. Modifications
of the AR via mutations, amplification, phosphorylation,
and changes in AR cofactors are implicated in the activation of AR signaling. The development of new strategies
and drugs that can abrogate AR signaling may result in
benefits. MDV 3100 is a small molecule that blocks nuclear
translocation of AR, DNA binding without agonist activity
when AR is overexpressed. Ongoing trials are evaluating
BMS-641988 and MDV3100, which are novel and potent
AR antagonists.

bladder cancer is found at a localized superficial stage, the
five-year survival rate is 94%. Seventy-five percent of all
bladder cancers are superficial at presentation, limited to the
mucosa, submucosa, or lamina propria. Recurrence rates
after initial treatment are 50% to 80%, with progression to
muscle-invading tumor in 10% to 25%. For superficial disease, prevention of recurrence and progression are the primary issues. In muscle-invading bladder cancers, there is
a 50% risk of distant metastases.

Pathology
In the Western world, the majority of bladder carcinomas
are transitional cell carcinoma (TCC), whereas squamous
cell carcinoma and adenocarcinomas account for 5% and
2%, respectively. Squamous cell carcinomas are often associated with chronic irritation or infection. The distinct variants of squamous cell carcinomas, with diverse etiologies
and biology, are beyond the scope of this chapter.

Clinical Presentation
The diagnosis can be elusive as bladder cancer can mimic
urinary tract infection or prostatitis. In an adult, especially over 50 years of age, with asymptomatic hematuria
or irritative voiding symptoms, this diagnosis should be
considered.

Staging
Evaluation of a patient with potentially muscle invasive
bladder cancer should include computerized axial tomography (CT scan) or nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)
to evaluate the lymph nodes and stratified transurethral
resection of the bladder (TURB) of the bladder.

Superficial Bladder Cancer
Superficial bladder cancers are usually low grade. They
rarely become invasive, but locally recur in approximately
50% of patients within 6 to 12 months. The risk of progression is related to grade and stage of the cancer. The rate
of progression for Grade I is approximately 2%, 11%
for Grade II, and 45% for Grade III; approximately 4%
with Ta progress, compared with 30% of patients with T1
tumors.
Carcinoma in situ (CIS) is a flat, nonpapillary, noninvasive, anaplastic epithelium closely resembling highgrade TCC. The association of CIS with low-stage,
low-grade tumors has been linked with increased risk of
subsequent progression and muscle invasion.

Treatment of Superficial Bladder Cancer

CANCER OF THE BLADDER
Bladder cancer is the fifth most common cancer in men
and the seventh in women, The male to female occurrence
is three to one. Smoking is a significant risk factor. It is
primarily a disease of the elderly, with 80% of cases in the
50 to 79 years age group.
In cases involving regional spread or distant spread,
five-year survival rates are 49% and 6%, respectively. When

Intravesical therapy provides close proximity of the drug
with the tumor, thus avoiding the toxicity of systemic
therapy. No therapy is recommended for patients with low
risk for recurrence, that is, patients with solitary Stage Ta,
grade 1–2 TCC. For patients at intermediate risk, those
with infrequent recurrence of grade 1–2, Stage Ta tumor,
no treatment may be required. For those who require therapy, BCG (Bacillus Calmette Guerin) is used in the United
States, although urologists in Europe use either BCG or
intravesical chemotherapy, mostly mitomycin. Patients at

Chapter 10:

high risk of disease progression should be treated with
intravesical BCG. High-risk patients are defined as those
with CIS, Grade 3 TCC, Stage 1 TCC, or positive postresection urinary cytology. BCG is the most effective intravesical agent for the prevention of recurrence and progression
of bladder cancer (21).

Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer
Although radical cystectomy has been the treatment of
choice for patients with muscle-invading tumors in the
United States, RT has been a standard alternative therapeutic option in Europe and Canada. Predictors for relapse
after cystectomy include the depth of invasion, the involvement of adjacent viscera (perivesicular fat, vascular invasion,
prostate, vagina), and the presence of nodal metastases.
Recurrence is related to stage and nodal status. High-grade,
high-stage (pT3–4) tumors are frequently (40–60%) found
to have lymph node involvement (pN+) at the time of
radical cystectomy. Current selected studies indicate a 15%
to 20% five-year survival after cystectomy in patients with
nodal metastases. With direct invasion into the adjacent
viscera, cure is obtained in less than 10%. Other known
prognostic factors include histology, grade, presence or
absence of ureteral obstruction, and the extent of surgical
resection.

Surgery
Radical cystectomy implies the removal of the bladder and
pelvic lymph nodes, and in male patients the prostate and
the seminal vesicles. In the female patient, radical cystectomy means the removal of the bladder, female urethra,
and pelvic lymph nodes. It also involves the removal of the
uterus, fallopian tubes, and ovaries, and a variable amount
of the upper vagina. This surgery is associated with considerable morbidity and mutilation and requires adaptation
of lifestyle. It is only offered to patients in good medical
condition.
Several techniques of bladder substitution have been
described, which recently have also included female patients.
The patient’s enhanced self-image following continent urinary diversion is the major advantage of this type of
surgery.

Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy
Following cystectomy for muscle invasive bladder carcinoma, up to 50% of patients may develop metastases. This
most often occurs within two years. Most patients relapse
in distant sites; only one-third of patients relapse in the
pelvis alone. Response rates of 40% to 70% with combination chemotherapy regimens have led to investigation of
their use for locally invasive disease in combination with
conventional modalities of treatment, either as neoadjuvant
or classic adjuvant therapy.
There have been many single arm, nonrandomized
pilot studies that have established the feasibility and safety
of administering neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The overall
response rates of 60% to 70% with CR rates in the 30% range
have been frequently reported. These trials have demonstrated that neoadjuvant chemotherapy can produce tumor
“downstaging.”

Cancers of the Genitourinary Tract

189

The International EORTC/MRC trial of chemotherapy prior to cystectomy or radiotherapy versus cystectomy
or radiotherapy is the largest trial of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The trial enrolled 976 patients. In this trial, first
published in the Lancet, a 15% reduction in the risk of
death, which translated into a three-year survival difference of 5.5% (50% in the no chemotherapy arm) was
observed. Looking at the HR of 0.85 (95% CI 0.71–1.02),
this difference was not statistically significant. The median
length of follow-up for patients alive was four years.
These results have been updated to 7.4 years (22). With
more events, the data have just reached statistical significance (HR = 0.85; 95% CI 0.72–1.00; p = 0.048) in favor of
patients treated with CMV chemotherapy. The five-year
survival rate was 44% versus 50%, and the seven-year
survival rate was 37% versus 43%. Hence, the 2002 results
provide longer follow-up, but no real change in absolute
benefit.
Also, a SWOG Intergroup trial reported the benefits
of three cycles of neoadjuvant M-VAC chemotherapy prior
to cystectomy versus cystectomy alone (23). This trial evaluated 307 patients and reported a difference in median
survival in favor of M-VAC chemotherapy. According to
an intent-to-treat analysis, the authors reported that median
survival was 46 months for the cystectomy patients as compared to 47.7 months in M-VAC-treated patients. Five-year
survival was 42.1% for cystectomy alone versus 57.2% for
M-VAC-treated patients. In view of limited sample size,
these results reached only borderline statistical significance,
p = 0.06.
These results show a trend in favor of neoadjuvant
chemotherapy. In a recent meta-analysis including data
from 2688 patients from 10 available randomized trials,
the use of combination chemotherapy showed a 5% absolute benefit at five years (24). It is important to emphasize that the survival benefit by optimal surgery, that
is, radical cystectomy plus extensive pelvic lymphadenectomy is greater than the modest benefit provided by
neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The approach of neoadjuvant
chemotherapy is therefore only a justifiable approach
if followed by radical surgery including state-of-the-art
lymphadenectomy.

Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy
and Bladder Preservation
As orthotopic bladder substitution has become available,
many urologists prefer early definitive therapy with this
ideal form of continent urinary diversion. Bladder preservation is a second option, also used in the treatment of
other solid tumors.
Following neoadjuvant chemotherapy, or radiochemotherapy, bladder preservation may be possible in highly
selected cases. Pathologically complete responses in the cystectomy specimen (pT0) were obtained in 38% of M-VACtreated patients in the SWOG trial. Likewise, the pT0 rate
in patients in the EORTC/MRC trial who underwent surgery was 33% for patients who had CMV chemotherapy, as
compared to 12% for those who had TURB and cystectomy
alone without chemotherapy. Bladder sparing in selected
patients on the basis of response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy is a feasible approach that must be confirmed in
prospective randomized trials (25).

190

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Metastatic Disease

the two most important independent prognostic factors
that had an impact on median survival. Median survival
times for patients who had zero, one, or two risk factors
were 33, 13.4, and 9.3 months, respectively (p = 0.0001).
Even in patients who are still in good clinical condition, M-VAC causes clinically significant myelosuppression, with up to a 25% incidence of granulocytopenic fever
at any time during the course of M-VAC therapy, and a
3% drug-related mortality.
The EORTC conducted a randomized Phase III trial
comparing classical M-VAC to a schedule-intensified regimen every two weeks, using G-CSF support during all
cycles (28). There were differences in complete response
rate, PFS, and survival at two years in favor of the escalated M-VAC schedule. However, this did not translate
into an improved median survival, which was 14.5 months
on escalated M-VAC versus 14.1 months on classic M-VAC.
Consequently, escalated M-VAC therapy remains an investigational approach.
In view of the toxicity associated with M-VAC, particularly in patients with impaired renal function, carboplatin has been substituted for cisplatin in various combinations.
Single-agent activity of carboplatin derived from pooled
data from seven Phase II studies is 12% (range 6–21%),
appears inferior to that obtained with cisplatin. The combination of carboplatin with methotrexate and vinblastine
(Carbo-MV) has shown response rates of 30% to 40% and
a median survival of 8 to 10 months, and again these
results appear inferior to those obtained with M-VAC (27).

Following the recognition in the 1980s of the chemosensitivity of urothelial cell cancer, with Phase II studies
demonstrating the activity of cisplatin, methotrexate, adriamycin, vinblastine in advanced and/or metastatic disease,
the next step to the development of effective therapy was
to combine the most effective agents known at that time
into two-, three-, and four-drug combinations.
In 1985, investigators from Memorial Sloan Kettering
Cancer Center (MSKCC) reported on a four-drug regimen
that was built by combining the two active two-drug regimen studies at MSKCC, cisplatin plus doxorubicin and
methotrexate plus vinblastine (M-VAC). The initial study
on 24 patients gave an overall response rate of 71%.
With increasing experience, the overall worldwide
response rate became slightly lower, ranging from 40%
to 57%, but the median survival of 12 to 13 months was
maintained. Subsequent randomized Phase III trials demonstrated the superiority of M-VAC compared to single
agent cisplatin, and to CISCA (cisplatin/cyclophosphamide/
adriamycin), in terms of both response rates and overall
survival (27).
Unfortunately M-VAC therapy is associated with
significant morbidity. The median age of patients presenting with metastatic urothelial cell cancer is 70 years, and
because of smoking as an associated risk factor, many
patients have pulmonary and/or cardiovascular diseases.
In addition, many patients have impaired renal function that
hampers the safe administration of cisplatin-based chemotherapy. Previous studies have also shown that impaired
performance status, weight loss, high alkaline phosphate,
and visceral metastases are adversely related with response
to chemotherapy. In a report on 199 patients treated with
M-VAC at MSKCC, investigators were able to identify performance status and the presence of visceral metastases as

In the past decade, with new agents becoming available,
substantial single agent activity has been demonstrated
for the antifolate piritrexim, the multitargeted antifolate
(MTA), the taxanes paclitaxel and docetaxel, and gemcitabine (27,29). Responses in Phase II trials with piritrexim
and Phase II trials with either paclitaxel or docetaxel in
patients not previously treated with chemotherapy ranged
from 25% to 40%. In patients who have previously been
treated with cisplatin-based chemotherapy though, these
agents appear considerably less effective. Initial Phase II
studies of two-drug combinations of docetaxel, or paclitaxel,
with cisplatin, have shown activity in untreated patients,
with response rates that are in the same range as those
obtained with M-VAC, but to date there are no comparative data. Several studies have tested the combination of
paclitaxel with carboplatin, but again, in view of reported
median survival figures as low as 8.5 to 9.5 months, there
is concern as to whether carboplatin should be substituted
for cisplatin in those patients who are potentially fit to
tolerate a cisplatin-based regimen.
Gemcitabine is an antimetabolite. Interestingly, the
overall 27% response rate appears not to be influenced
by previous cisplatin-based chemotherapy, suggesting that
there is no complete cross-resistance between these agents.
Three Phase II studies of the GC (gemcitabine and cisplatin) combination have demonstrated the feasibility of the
two-drug combination and have produced response rates
similar to that obtained with M-VAC (27,29).
A large multinational Phase III trial comparing GC
with M-VAC was conducted (30). The study was designed
to detect a four-month improvement in the median

Adjuvant Chemotherapy
The principal advantage of adjuvant chemotherapy over
the neoadjuvant approach is that the cystectomy specimen is immediately available for pathologic evaluation.
Prognostic factors for relapse and/or metastases can be
determined. Patients can then be selected to receive chemotherapy who may benefit most. As the cystectomy is
performed immediately, there is no delay in definitive
treatment.
The disadvantage to adjuvant chemotherapy is the
delay in giving systemic therapy for occult metastases
whereas treatment for the primary tumor is emphasized.
In addition, it is difficult to administer the chemotherapy
shortly after a cystectomy.
There have been few randomized trials evaluating
adjuvant chemotherapy. The trials have been difficult to
interpret because of problems such as small sample size
and early closure. Some trials have suggested that there
may be a benefit for adjuvant chemotherapy, whereas others have shown differing results (26). The EORTC attempted
to enlist 660 patients in a study of adjuvant chemotherapy.
This study evaluating four cycles of immediate chemotherapy (Gemcitabine/Cisplatin, MVAC, or HD-MVAC)
versus therapy at the time of relapse in high-risk patients
with pT3–pT4 or node positive disease was unfortunately
closed to accrual after only 298 patients were entered.

New Active Agents and Combinations

Chapter 10:

survival with GC. A total of 405 patients were entered.
With a median follow-up of 19 months, overall survival
was found to be similar on both arms, GC 13.8 months,
M-VAC 14.8 months (HR 1.04; 95% CI 0.82–1.32, p = 0.75),
as were time to progressive disease (7.4 months on both
arms) and overall response (GC, 49%; MVAC, 46%). Fewer
patients on GC, compared with M-VAC patients, had neutropenic fever (2% vs. 14%), neutropenic sepsis (1% vs.
12%), and grade 3/4 mucositis (1% vs. 22%).
Although the study failed to detect a significant difference in survival, which was the primary end point, the
favorable risk–benefit ratio has led many investigators to
consider GC as first-line therapy for advanced urothelial
cancer. This can be justified by the easier administration
of GC, its lower toxicity, fewer hospitalizations related to
sepsis and mucositis, and use of fewer medical resources.
GC can be considered a valuable alternative for the vast
majority of patients with metastatic bladder cancer in whom
GC may achieve a similar clinical response to M-VAC, but
with the benefit of fewer adverse effects (27).
Investigators in Spain have conducted Phase I/II
trials of the triplet combination of paclitaxel, cisplatin,
gemcitabine in a total of 61 patients. The studies gave an
overall response rate of 78% and a median survival time
for the Phase I and the Phase II part of the study of 24
and 16 months, respectively. An international trial, led by
the EORTC, recently investigated this triplet combination
in a Phase III randomized trial versus the cisplatin, gemcitabine study. The study accrued 627 patients from 2001
to 2004. The initial trial results showed a higher overall
response rate and slightly better survival in the triplet arm
(15.7 vs. 12.8 months), but in view of the trial design to test
for a four-month survival benefit, this did not reach statistical significance (HR 0.86; 95% CI 0.72–1.03; p = 0.12) (31).
Improved understanding of the molecular biology of
urothelial malignancies may enable us to define the role
of new prognostic indices, which can direct appropriate
therapeutic options. There is a strong scientific and clinical rationale to combine new molecular targeted agents
with chemotherapy combinations in the treatment of locally
advanced or metastatic TCC of the bladder. Several strategies including EGFR and VEGFR inhibition are now
being initiated, combining chemotherapy with these new
compounds.

CANCER OF THE KIDNEY
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) accounts for 3% of adult malignancies, with a male to female ratio of 2:1. It is most commonly seen between the ages of 50 and 70 years. During
the early 1990s, studies demonstrated that the Von Hippel–
Lindau (VHL) tumor suppressor gene was inactivated in
a majority of patients with sporadic clear cell renal carcinomas through mutation or methylation (32). Functional
VHL encodes a protein that targets hypoxia inducible factor
(HIF) for degradation. Inactivation of VHL leads to upregulation of HIF-1H, and as a result, it leads to transcription
of multiple genes involved in tumorigenesis including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), platelet-derived
growth factor (PDGF), and fibroblast growth factor (FGF).
Subsequent studies demonstrated that the protein mTOR
(mammalian target of rapamycin) also plays an important

Cancers of the Genitourinary Tract

191

role in promoting the translation of HIF-1H mRNA (33).
Based on this work, several novel targets emerged for anticancer therapy in renal carcinoma.
Patients with localized tumors can usually be cured
by surgery. However, one-third of patients present with
metastatic disease and another 30% to 40% will eventually
develop distant metastases. These patients have a median
survival that was 12 months, with 5% to 10% five-year
survival. This may be changing because of earlier diagnosis
and novel therapies that have reached the clinic.

Clinical Presentation
There appears to have been an increase in the proportion
of patients diagnosed with RCC at an earlier stage; this has
led to an improvement in five-year survival. Both trends
are likely because of improvements in diagnostic capabilities. The classic triad of hematuria, abdominal mass, and
costovertebral pain nowadays occurs in a small percentage
of patients. At least one of these symptoms, most commonly hematuria, may be present in up to 50% of patients.
Other symptoms include weakness, weight loss (28%), anemia (21%), and fever (7%). Paraneoplastic syndromes may
occur in up to 25% of patients. These include Cushing’s
syndrome, polycythemia (3%), hypercalcemia (3%), and
hepatic dysfunction (7%).

Pathology
The most prevalent form of sporadic RCC is clear cell
carcinoma that occurs in 75% of patients with renal carcinoma. It is 15% who develop papillary ca, of whom 5% is
Type 1 and 10% is Type 2. cMET pertains to type 1 (thus
5%) FH and cMYC to type 2 (thus 10%). Other types of
RCC include chromophobe (5%) and oncocytoma (5%) (34).
Whereas most RCCs are of proximal tubular epithelial origin, less common subtypes, including collecting duct carcinomas, chromophobe cell carcinoma, and papillary
cystadenocarcinoma, probably arise from distal parts of the
nephron. Distinctions as to histologic subtype of RCC are
fundamental (35).
Better survival is reported for tumors confined to the
kidney, with five-year survival rates from 80% to >90%
following radical nephrectomy for T1-2 tumors (36). The
grade of the primary tumor and size are important prognostic variables that may impact upon survival. The presence of lymph node metastases has a significant adverse
effect on survival, with reports of 10% to 25% five-year
survival.
The incidence of positive nodes depends on tumor
stage. Positive nodes are found in 5% to 10% of tumors
confined to the renal capsule, in 30% of tumors extending through the renal capsule, and in 50% with distant
metastases.

Surgery
There has been an overall increase in the frequency in
which surgery is utilized as the primary treatment for RCC.
Partial nephrectomy rather than total nephrectomy can be
considered in patients with Stage I RCC, a solitary kidney,
or in bilateral kidney cancer (36). Radical nephrectomy
is indicated for tumors that are locally advanced or large
tumors that have not invaded adjacent organs. A large

192

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

randomized study has shown that lymphadenectomy did
not increase survival in patients with negative nodes on
CT scan.
Tumors with penetration of the perirenal fat, positive
margins, or regional nodal metastases are at higher risk
for local and distant recurrence. Neither adjuvant RT nor
adjuvant systemic therapy has an established role (37).

Metastatic Disease
Prognostic Factors
Several independent prognostic factors are associated with
survival in patients with metastatic disease, metastatic RCC
(mRCC). At MSKCC, a prognostic model was made based
on five variables that predicted a short survival: low KPS,
high LDH, low Hb, high corrected serum calcium, and time
from initial RCC diagnosis to treatment of <1 year. Patients
were assigned to three risk groups: those with 0 risk factors
(favorable risk), those with 1–2 (intermediate risk), and
those with ≥3 (poor risk). Median survival in the favorable
risk group was 30 months, intermediate risk group was
14 months, and poor risk group was 5 months (38).
Investigators at the Cleveland Clinic have added the
number of metastatic sites to this model and French investigators favor a more simplified model that includes only
PS and the number of metastatic sites.

Surgery
Surgery is appropriate in select patients with solitary or a
small number of metastatic lesions. This usually indicates
patients with pulmonary lesions and a good performance
status. Five-year survivals ranging from 25% to 35% have
been reported. Spontaneous regressions following nephrectomy have been reported in 1% to 4% of patients, primarily those with minimal pulmonary metastases. Most have
not been histologically documented. Nephrectomy on this
basis is not justified. Two large randomized trials have
shown that radical nephrectomy before interferon (IFN)based immunotherapy delays time to progression and
improves survival of patients with mRCC who present with
good performance status, compared to IFN-based therapy
alone (39,40).

Chemotherapy
The results of chemotherapy in the treatment of RCC
are consistently disappointing. In a review of 83 trials of
63 single agents and 20 combinations in 4093 patients with
advanced disease, only 6% responded (35). It is likely that
multiple mechanisms of drug resistance are involved in the
intrinsic resistance of RCC to chemotherapeutic agents. The
only single agents with some efficacy are the fluorinated
pyrimidines fluorouracil (5-FU), capecitabine, floxuridine
(FUDR), and gemcitabine (41).

Interferon (IFN)
Since successful treatment of RCC by IFN was described
in 1983, IFN has become the most widely accepted treatment
for metastatic RCC. IFNs are natural glycoproteins with
antiviral, antiproliferative, and immunomodulatory properties. IFN-α appears to be the most active in the treatment
of RCC, with IFN-β and IFN-γ being less useful. IFN-α has

a response rate (RR) of approximately 15%. An intermediate dose is probably best, consisting of approximately
9 million IU subcutaneously three times weekly. Principal
side effects include flu-like symptoms such as fever, myalgia, and asthenia. Occasionally, confusion, depression, liver
dysfunction, and myelosuppression may occur. Toxicity
leads to dose reduction or discontinuation in 20% to 40%
of patients. Patient selection is important, with up to a 30%
RR in selected patients with a good PS and pulmonary
metastases. IFN has less activity in bone, liver, and brain
metastases.
Immunotherapy for RCC was submitted to a systematic Cochrane database literature review comparing both
IFN-α and high dose interleukin-2 (HD-IL-2) to other
options. Forty-two studies involving 4216 patients were
eligible in terms of response and 26 studies reported survival outcome (3089 patients). This analysis concluded that
IFN-α provided a modest survival benefit compared to
other commonly used treatments and could be considered
for the control arm of trials with other systemic agents.
IL-2 was not validated in controlled randomized studies.

Interleukin-2 (IL-2)
IL-2 is a cytokine secreted by activated T lymphocytes,
which in addition to producing IL-2 also increase the
expression of high affinity IL-2 receptors. The mechanism
of action of IL-2 is the induction and activation of T lymphocytes and natural killer cells, and the secondary release
of cytokines such as IFN-gamma, tumor necrosis factor,
granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor, IL-1,
and IL-6, which in turn stimulate the activity of other cells
in the immune system, such as the monocyte-macrophage
lineage (42).
High dose IL-2 at a dose of 600,000 or 720,000 IU/
kg as an i.v. bolus in 15 minutes every 8 hours was the
only approved therapy for metastatic RCC in the United
States. This approval was based on results in 255 patients
in 7 clinical trials, with 12 complete (5%) and 24 partial
(9%) responses. The overall median duration of response
was 20 months when approved, and in an update was 84+
months and not yet reached (NYR) at >5 years follow-up (35).
Toxicity included a vascular leak syndrome characterized
by a generalized increase in capillary permeability, fluid
accumulation, and hypotension. As a result of this toxicity,
high-dose IL-2 is infrequently used and should be used in
patients who express CA-IX (43). A review of phase I and
II trials in over 1400 patients treated with combinations of
IFN or IL-2 have revealed response rates of 20% to 21%,
with CR in 3% to 5%.

Novel Single Agents in Advanced
Renal Carcinoma
Multiple novel agents have been approved for use in RCC
or are under review by regulatory agencies based on the
results of well-conducted Phase III trials completed over
the past five years.
Bevacizumab. Bevacizumab is a monoclonal antibody
that binds and neutralizes VEGF-A. In a “proof of concept”
trial by Yang, 166 patients with mRCC (refractory to IL-2)
were randomized to bevacizumab at two different dose levels
(10 mg/kg every two weeks or 3 mg/kg every two weeks)

Chapter 10:

versus placebo (44). The objective response rate and the time
to disease progression were the primary end points. The trial
was stopped early after an interim analysis demonstrated a
doubling in the time to disease progression in the 10 mg/kg
bevacizumab treated group compared with placebo. There
was no significant difference in survival among the three
groups in this small hypothesis generating Phase II trial.
Two randomized Phase III trials (CALGB-90206 and
the European AVOREN study) subsequently compared
IFN-α plus bevacizumab to IFN-α alone as first-line treatment in mRCC. The AVOREN trial randomized 649 patients
to IFN-α (9 million IU subcutaneously three times weekly)
plus bevacizumab (10 mg/kg every two weeks) or IFN-α
plus placebo (45). Although the primary end point of the
trial was overall survival, the study was unblinded after a
preplanned final analysis of PFS demonstrated a significant
improvement. Patents were encouraged to cross over to
the bevacizumab arm. At the time of unblinding, the duration of PFS was significantly longer in the combination arm
than in the IFN arm (10.2 vs. 5.4 months; HR 0.63; 95% CI
0.52–0.75; p = 0.0001). The most common side effects in
the bevacizumab group were fatigue and asthenia. Based
on these data, bevacizumab plus IFN-α has already been
approved in Europe.
CALGB 90206 utilized a similar (although not
placebo-controlled) design and identical dosing regimen as
the AVOREN trial (46). In a preliminary report after
732 patients were enrolled, the median time to progression
was 8.5 months for patients receiving bevacizumab plus
IFN-α compared to 5.2 months with IFN-α monotherapy
(HR 0.71; 95% CI 0.61–0.83; p < 0.0001). Toxicity was greater
in the bevacizumab plus IFN-α arm, including Grade
3 hypertension (9% vs. 0%), anorexia (17% vs. 8%), fatigue
(35% vs. 28%), and proteinuria (13% vs. 0%).
Sunitinib. Sunitinib is an orally bioavailable potent
inhibitor of multiple receptor tyrosine kinases (tyrosine
kinase inhibitor, TKI) including VEGFR types 1–3 and
PDGF. Two Phase II trials explored the activity of sunitinib
in mRCC patients who had progressed on prior cytokines
(47,48). In both trials, sunitinib was given at a dose of
50 mg orally daily for four weeks followed by two weeks
rest. In a pooled analysis of both trials including 186
patients, the RR was 34% (95% CI 25–44%) with a median
PFS of 8.3 months. Adverse events associated with sunitinib included fatigue, diarrhea, neutropenia, elevation of
lipase, anemia, hand-foot syndrome, and thyroid function
abnormalities. Given the activity in cytokine refractory
patients, sunitinib is approved for the treatment of mRCC.
A randomized Phase III trial subsequently compared
sunitinib with IFN-α in untreated patients with advanced
clear cell RCC (49). Sunitinib revealed a significant improvement in PFS compared with IFN-α (11 vs. 5 months; HR
0.415; p < 0.000001). Patients treated with sunitinib also
reported better QOL. All risk groups appeared to benefit.
Based on these results, sunitinib has become a standard firstline treatment for patients with mRCC. Updated results
presented at ASCO 2008 demonstrated an improvement in
survival with sunitinib compared with IFN-α, despite crossover with a HR of 0.82 (95% CI 0.67–1.001; p = 0.051) (50).
Sorafenib. Sorafenib is another potent orally bioavailable multitargeted TKI with activity against Raf, VEGFR2,

Cancers of the Genitourinary Tract

193

PDGFR, Flt3, and c-KIT. A novel trial design was initially
used to explore the activity of sorafenib in mRCC (51). In
this randomized discontinuation trial, patients were treated
with sorafenib 400 mg orally twice daily for an initial treatment period. After restaging, patients achieving an objective response continued treatment, those who progressed
were taken off study, and those with stable disease were
randomized to sorafenib versus placebo. The last group,
enriched for patients with a uniform natural history,
provided a statistically sound assessment of the potential
cytostatic nature of sorafenib. Of the 202 patients enrolled,
73 patients achieved an objective response whereas
65 patients had stable disease at 12 weeks and were randomized to continue sorafenib versus placebo. At 24 weeks,
50% of the sorafenib-treated patients were progression free
versus 18% of the placebo-treated patients (p = 0.0077).
Adverse events associated with sorafenib included fatigue,
hand-foot syndrome, diarrhea, and hypertension.
Based on the promising results of this trial, a randomized Phase III trial compared sorafenib to placebo as
second-line therapy (after cytokines or chemotherapy) in
patients with good and intermediate risk clear cell advanced
RCC (52). The TARGET trial enrolled 905 patients. After a
planned interim analysis, the median PFS was 5.5 months
in the sorafenib group and 2.8 months in the placebo
arm (HR = 0.44; 95% CI 0.35–0.55; p < 0.01). Sorafenib is
approved for the treatment of advanced RCC.
A randomized Phase II trial of sorafenib versus
IFN-α as first-line therapy has been completed (53). The
primary end point was PFS and the study did include an
option of dose escalation to sorafenib 600 mg twice daily
at the time of progression or cross-over from IFN-α to
sorafenib at progression. The median PFS was 5.7 months
(95% CI 5.0–7.4 months) versus 5.6 months (95% CI 3.7–
7.4 months) for sorafenib versus IFN-α. This trial unfortunately enrolled patients with very poor prognostic features
and may not have been a fair test of sorafenib as first-line
therapy. There has been a suggestion of a potential benefit
from sorafenib dose escalation in other trials.
Temsirolimus. Temsirolimus is an inhibitor of mTOR.
In a randomized Phase II trial, three dose levels of weekly
temsirolimus (25, 75, and 250 mg given i.v.) were evaluated
in patients with cytokine-refractory RCC (54). Temsirolimus resulted in an objective RR of 7% (1 CR), a minor
response rate of 26% and median survival of 15 months.
The most frequent adverse events were skin toxicity
(maculopapular rash), mucositis, asthenia, nausea, hyperglycemia, hyperphosphatemia, and hypertriglyceridemia.
Neither toxicity nor efficacy was associated with the dose
level of temsirolimus. A retrospective analysis compared
actual outcomes based on MSKCC risk grouping and suggested that patients with poor risk disease benefited the
most from temsirolimus.
After this subgroup analysis, a Phase III study compared temsirolimus versus IFN-α versus the combination
in 626 patients with modified MSKCC poor-risk prognostic
features (55). Treatment with single-agent temsirolimus
was associated with a survival benefit compared to IFN-α
alone (10.9 vs. 7.3 months; HR 0.73; p < 0.007), whereas the
combination regimen was not superior to IFN-α (8.4 months;
HR 0.95; p = 0.69). Patients with nonclear cell cancer
also appeared to benefit. Temsirolimus is approved for the

194

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

treatment of advanced RCC. An ongoing Phase III trial is
comparing temsirolimus with sorafenib in patients with
disease progression after first-line treatment with sunitinib.
Another trial is planned comparing bevacizumab combined
with either IFN-α or temsirolimus.

treatment has completed accrual, and results from this trial
are awaited. Another Phase III head-to-head trial is planned
comparing pazopanib to sunitinib in previously untreated
patients with mRCC.

Everolimus. With the widespread use of the multitargeted TKIs as first-line therapy for mRCC, the optimal
management of patients progressing on these agents has
remained unclear. To prospectively evaluate the efficacy of
an mTOR inhibitor in patients with clear cell RCC progressing on sunitinib, sorafenib, and/or bevacizumab, a Phase
III trial of the oral mTOR inhibitor everolimus (RAD-001)
versus placebo was completed. In February 2008, the study
was stopped after interim analysis demonstrated a significantly better PFS in patients who received everolimus.
These data were presented at ASCO in 2008; 410 patients
were enrolled and treatment was associated with a significant improvement in PFS compared with placebo, the primary end point of the trial (4.0 vs. 1.9 months; HR 0.30;
95% CI 0.22–0.40; p < 0.001) (56). Additionally, all risk
groups appeared to benefit.

Novel Combinations in Advanced
Renal Carcinoma

Other New Agents
There are a multitude of other new agents with novel mechanisms of action for patients with RCC including perifosine,
axitinib, and pazopanib.
Axitinib. Axitinib is a slightly more selective multitargeted TKI than sorafenib or sunitinib with predominant
activity against VEGFR-1, VEGFR-2, and VEGFR-3. A Phase
II study explored the activity of axitinib in patients with
cytokine refractory RCC (57). There were two complete and
21 partial responses for an overall response rate (RRe) of
44.2% (95% CI 30.5–58.7). The median time to progression
was 15.7 months, and the median overall survival was
29.9 months. The most common treatment-related adverse
events included diarrhea, hypertension, fatigue, nausea, and
hoarseness. Axitinib is currently being compared with
sorafenib in a randomized Phase III trial in patients with
mRCC who have progressed on prior treatment with
sunitinib.
Pazopanib. Pazopanib is an orally administered
multitargeted inhibitor of the VEGF receptors, PDGFR-α,
PDGFR-β, and c-kit. To explore the activity of pazopanib
in patients with mRCC, a multinational randomized discontinuation Phase II trial was performed (58). Patients
received pazopanib 800 mg orally daily for 12 weeks.
Responding patients continued treatment, progressing
patients were discontinued from treatment, and those
patients with stable disease were randomized 1:1 to continue pazopanib versus placebo. Two hundred and twentyfive patients were enrolled. Due to significant activity with
this agent, with an objective RR of 40% and stable disease
rate of 42% at week 12, an independent monitoring committee recommended discontinuing the randomized portion of the trial. The most common treatment-related
adverse events included transaminase elevation, diarrhea,
fatigue, and nausea.
A multicenter international Phase III study evaluating pazopanib in patients with locally advanced or metastatic RCC who are untreated or have failed prior cytokine

The optimal strategies for combining targeted therapies are
the subject of ongoing research and current approaches
have focused on both inhibiting different receptor tyrosine
kinases with diverse functions such as the combination
of sunitinib and erlotinib inhibiting at different points
upstream and downstream in the same pathway such as
the combination of bevacizumab and sunitinib. Virtually
every combination of available agents has been evaluated
or is planned for study. In an effort to determine the benefit of combination therapy, ECOG 2804 trial (also known
as BEST for Bevacizumab, Sorafenib, Temsirolimus) is randomizing 240 untreated patients with advanced RCC either
bevacizumab monotherapy or combination therapy with
bevacizumab plus sorafenib versus bevacizumab plus temsirolimus versus temsirolimus plus sorafenib. The primary
end point of this trial is PFS.
Based on a better understanding of the pathogenesis
of advanced RCC, the past decade has brought a host of
advances rapidly translated from the bench to the bedside.
Several new classes of agents have been approved for the
treatment of mRCC with additional molecules demonstrating exciting activity in current Phase II trials. Over the next
several years, the optimal sequence and/or combination of
these agents will be a major focus of clinical research. Early
efforts at combination therapy have shown some promise,
but the ability to combine “noncytotoxic” therapies, with
often varying and cumulative toxicities, has proven challenging. Additional safety and efficacy data of combination
therapy is needed before these regimens become a part of
the rapidly expanding armamentarium for renal carcinoma.
Studies evaluating targeted agents in high-risk
patients in the adjuvant postoperative setting are underway and include the MRC led and EORTC SORCE trial of
adjuvant sorafenib one versus three years versus placebo,
the U.S. led ASSURE trial of sunitinib versus sorafenib
versus placebo for one year, and the pharmaceutical industry sponsored STAR trial of adjuvant of sunitinib versus
placebo.
There is a strong rationale for targeting angiogenesis
and multiple pathways in patients with advanced RCC.
Novel targeted agents have demonstrated an increase in
PFS in first and second line and an increase in survival in
poor risk therapy naive patients and in first-line patients
treated with sunitinib.
They are better tolerated than cytokines, but there is
toxicity associated with these agents. The effect of the novel
targets in the neoadjuvant setting on the primary tumor and
whether or not nephrectomy is still required in metastatic
patients is under evaluation.

CANCER OF THE TESTIS
Although testis cancer accounts for only 1% of tumors in
males, with an incidence of 3 per 100,000 men per year, it
is the most common malignancy in men from age 15 to

Chapter 10:

35 years. Remarkable progress has been achieved in the
past 20 years, rendering testicular cancer one of the most
curable solid tumors. Better understanding of prognostic
risk factors, radiologic techniques, the availability of serum
markers, effective multidrug chemotherapy regimens, and
ramifications in surgical approaches have led to considerable improvements. In the early 1970s, less than 10% of
patients with distant metastases survived; today cure is
obtained in 70% to 90% of patients with metastatic disease.

Epidemiology and Etiology
There has been a steady increase in the incidence of testicular cancer (59). The highest incidence of testis cancer is
in white males from the United States, Scandinavia, and
Western Europe. A white male has a 1 in 500 chance of
developing testicular cancer. The peak incidence of nonseminomatous germ cell tumor (NSGCT) is between the
ages of 20 and 40. Pure seminomas and combined tumors
(seminoma plus NSGCT) typically occur a decade later.
About 10% of patients with testicular cancer have a
prior history of cryptorchism. The relative risk of developing testis cancer in patients with maldescent is 8.8. Orchidopexy prior to age 10 seems to reduce the risk. Of note,
5% to 10% of patients with a history of cryptorchism develop
testis cancer in the contralateral normal testis. This may
represent carcinoma in situ (CIS) or hormonal dysfunction.
Dysgenetic gonads or almost any condition associated with
abnormal gonadal development, including those related to
sex chromosomal abnormalities, have been associated with
an increased incidence of testicular tumors.
Patients with testis cancer are at increased risk of
developing a metachronous testicular cancer on the contralateral side, with a risk 25 times higher than that of the
normal age-matched population.
The unusual cytogenetic abnormality of an isochrome of the short arm of chromosome 12, (12p) is found
in the majority of testis cancers and in CIS cells. This
occurs more frequently in nonseminoma (81%) than in
seminoma (30%) (59).

Clinical Presentation
Most patients with testis cancer present with a testicular
primary, the remainder present with metastatic disease, such
as a neck mass, respiratory symptoms, abdominal, or back
pain. The characteristic finding on exam is a tumor that
is solid and usually not nodular. About 10% to 15% may
present with pain, which may lead to a mistaken diagnosis
of epididymo-orchitis. Gynecomastia is sometimes seen,
related to increased serum levels of human chorionic gonadotrophin (HCG). A sonogram of the testis is a rapid method
for distinguishing hydrocele or epididymitis from testis
cancer.
Histologic diagnosis is confirmed by inguinal orchiectomy. The testis is removed intact. The dense membrane
of the tunica albuginea tends to limit local spread of tumor.
Local recurrence is exceptionally rare. NSGCT is often associated with the presence in the serum of tumor marker
products, i.e, alphafetoprotein (AFP) and the beta subunit
of HCG in the serum as tumor marker products. The halflife of HCG, following surgery for removal of the primary
tumor or metastases, or following the initiation of chemotherapy is 24 to 36 hours. The half-life of AFP is five to

Cancers of the Genitourinary Tract

195

seven days. During the first two weeks after the start of
chemotherapy, however, the pattern in the decline of AFP
and HCG is unpredictable and may even transiently
increase. The mechanism of this so-called surge phenomenon is not known. Initially it was assumed that such
transient increase was due to the huge release of these
glycoproteins from necrotic cells, but there is one report
that, at least for AFP, a surge is an adverse prognostic sign.
Also, the prognostic importance of speed of decline of HCG
and AFP has been investigated by a number of groups.
Although prolonged half-lives of both HCG and AFP
were reported as adverse prognostic features, this could
not be confirmed by others and to date has remained a
controversial issue (60).

Pathology
More than 95% of testicular cancer is of germ cell origin and
approximately 50% are NSGCT and 50% are seminoma.
Germinal elements are responsible for 93% of testis cancers,
with 38% representing pure histological types and 62%
mixed types. Sex-cord stromal tumors arising from Sertoli
or Leydig cells account for 4% to 6% of testis cancers;
metastases from these occur only rarely.
Recent interest in CIS as the premalignant phase of
NSGCT has been stimulated by investigators in Denmark
who performed testicular biopsies on the contralateral testis of 500 patients with testis cancer. Of 27 who were found
to have CIS, progression to invasive cancer was 50% within
five years. There is controversy, however, if biopsy of the
contralateral testis is necessary in all patients and most
investigators do not proceed with such biopsy routinely (61).

Staging
In a patient with suspected diagnosis of testis cancer, serum
AFP and HCG levels are obtained and radiological examinations include CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis.
Patients with central nervous system symptoms or those
with multiple pulmonary metastases or very high levels of
HCG (>20,000 IU, which is typically seen in patients with
predominantly choriocarcinoma elements) are investigated
by either a CT or NMR scan of the brain.
The American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and
the UICC have provided a new universal staging system for
all stages of disease. Stage I can now be divided into tumors
with or without lymphatic/vascular invasion and those with
persistently elevated AFP or B-HCG in the absence of clinical or radiologic evidence of disease. Stage II includes retroperitoneal disease without distant metastases, with or
without increased markers. Stage III disease includes only
distant metastases or elevated marker levels.
Many investigators in Europe use the Royal Marsden
Hospital Classification as it easily categorizes extent and
sites of disease; stages II and III reflect retroperitoneal
and mediastinal nodal disease, A-D reflects size of the
metastases, and Stage IV indicates visceral metastases.
In addition, multiple classifications have attempted
to categorize patients into risk groups, regarding treatment
outcome following cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy. Most of these classifications incorporated both the
bulk and site of the metastatic tumor load, as well as concentrations of AFP, HCG, and LDH in the serum, but

196

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

minor and major differences between categories were
rendering it impossible to compare trial results.
An international consensus classification was defined
after an international group of investigators analyzed prognostic factors in 5202 patients with NSGCT and 660 with
advanced seminoma treated with cisplatin-based chemotherapy (62). This classification divides patients into three
clinical groups. Definitions of good, intermediate, and poor
prognosis are found in Table 10.3. For reasons of simplicity
of the model, both NSGCT and seminoma are included.
There is separation of mediastinal from nonmediastinal primary (i.e., testis, retroperitoneal, or unknown) primary sites. Nonpulmonary visceral disease such as liver,
bone, brain, and skin are included as adverse features.
There is heavy reliance on tumor marker estimations (AFP,
HCG, and LDH), which are the only factors to distinguish
good and intermediate risk patients. The proportion of
patients falling into each category is as follows: good 60%
of all patients, intermediate 26%, and poor 14% of patients.
Survival at five years for good risk patients is 90%, 78%
for intermediate risk, and 48% for poor risk patients.
This classification represents an important advance in the
interpretation of trial results and provides a means for
international collaboration. Ninety percent of patients with
metastatic seminoma is in the good prognosis group,
although there is controversy if seminoma patients with
very high levels of LDH may be considered good risk (63).

Table 10.3 Testis Cancer Classification by the International Germ
Cell Cancer Collaborative Group

Treatment for Clinical Stage I NSGCT

*,aNonpulmonary visceral disease refers to liver, bone, brain, and skin.

The definitive procedure for pathologic diagnosis and local
treatment is removal of the testis by an inguinal approach.
Clinical Stage I is defined as tumor confined to the testis
with no clinical or radiological evidence of metastatic spread
and with normal (or normalized) serum markers.
Modern radiological techniques and serum markers,
coupled with the experience that metastatic disease from
earlier occult spread can be effectively treated has led to
various ways of managing clinical Stage I disease. Current
options include retroperitoneal lymph node dissection
(RPLND), surveillance, and chemotherapy (64). In the United
States, the standard approach to patients with clinical Stage
I has been RPLND. Those in favor of RPLND note that up
to 30% of patients who are clinical Stage I are found to be
pathologic Stage II at RPLND, and the operation itself can
be curative. RPLND is the most reliable method for staging
purposes. The most important disadvantage of RPLND has
been induction of retrograde ejaculation caused by autonomic nerve dissection in the region of the aortic bifurcation. Modifying the technique has reduced the morbidity
and incidence of ejaculatory dysfunction. After right-sided
RPLND, retrograde ejaculation occurs rarely. Following leftsided RPLND, problems may arise in up to one-third of
patients. These techniques are time consuming and require
considerable experience.
With survival rates of more than 95%, emphasis has
been on reducing the toxicity of therapy, while maintaining
high curability. Surveillance alone following orchiectomy
has become increasingly popular. The strategy is based
upon thorough clinical assessment after orchiectomy and
early detection of metastases, with regular tumor marker
estimations, chest x-rays, and CT scans of the chest/abdomen
and pelvis during the first two years (64).

Good prognosis
Nonseminoma
Testis/retroperitoneal primary AND
Good markers* AND
No nonpulmonary visceral mets

*Good markers
AFP <1000 ng/ml AND
HCG <1000 ng/ml (<5000 lU/l)
AND LDH <1.5 × N
(N = upper limit of normal)

Seminoma
Any primary site AND
Any markers AND
No nonpulmonary visceral mets
Intermediate prognosis
Nonseminoma
Testis/retroperitoneal primary AND
Intermediate markers* AND
No nonpulmonary visceral mets

*Intermediate markers
AFP 1000–10,000 ng/ml OR
HCG 1000–10,000 ng/ml
(5000–50,000 lU/l) OR
LDH 1.5–10 × N

Seminoma
Any primary site AND
Any markers AND
Nonpulmonary visceral metsa
Poor prognosis
Nonseminoma
Mediastinal primary site or testis/
retroperitoneal with either:
Nonpulmonary visceral metsa
OR Poor markers*

*Poor markers
AFP >10,000 ng/ml OR
HCG >10,000 ng/ml
(>50,000 lU/l) OR
LDH >10 × N

Results of numerous surveillance studies conducted
throughout the world are now available. Of 1771 patients
culled from the literature in such programs, the median
follow-up is 54 months, with a range from 3 to 144 months.
In all, 28% (500 patients) relapsed and 54% of the relapses
were in the retroperitoneal lymph nodes. The median time
to relapse in most series is six months (0–58 months) after
orchiectomy. Patients who relapsed were generally treated
by chemotherapy. The overall survival (98%) is comparable
to that seen in surgical series. Presence of vascular (either
blood vessel or lymphatic vessel) invasion indicates a
higher risk of recurrence after orchiectomy alone. Patients
with evidence of vascular invasion in the primary tumor
have a 40% risk of harboring occult metastatic spread; for
those patients who have no vessel invasion, the risk is 15%
to 20%. A “wait-and-see” policy, if conducted properly, is
clearly an alternative option in patients at low risk for
relapse, that is, in those with no vascular invasion. Patient
compliance is essential, and this method of careful observation has been widely accepted, particularly in Europe, as
an alternative option to RPLND (64).
Although a wait-and-see policy is also a viable option
in patients having vascular invasion, and studies have indicated that patients may prefer such policy as long as the
relapse risk does not exceed 50%, several centers in Europe
proceed with adjuvant chemotherapy in these patients.
This mostly consists of two cycles of chemotherapy and
may be better accepted than initial RPLND or the alternative option of three cycles of chemotherapy and possible
RPLND at the time of relapse. Chemotherapy studies in
clinical Stage I have shown that two cycles of BEP appear

Chapter 10:

to be sufficient treatment to prevent recurrence of metastatic
disease in more than 95% of the patients (65,66). To date,
there have been no randomized trials of adjuvant chemotherapy against RPLND to test for therapeutical equivalence or patient preferences. However, there is increasing
concern with the cardiovascular morbidity in testis cancer
survivors following cisplatin-based chemotherapy (67–69).
The most recent and extensive data indicate a two-fold
excess acute myocardial infarction rate because of cardiovascular disease. Also, there is accumulating evidence of
an increased incidence of second solid malignancies in testis cancer survivors after chemotherapy (69,70). In light of
these concerns, the use of even two cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy in over 50% of patients who do not need any
chemotherapy is becoming debatable (64).

Treatment for Clinical Stage II NSGCT
Clinical Stage II is defined as metastatic disease limited to
the retroperitoneal lymph nodes. With regard to disease
management, in the United States, RPLND remains an
option in Stage II A (0–2 cm) and Stage IIB (2–5 cm) nodal
disease, with two courses of additional chemotherapy if
macroscopic nodal involvement is found, whereas in Europe
initial chemotherapy for patients with clinical Stage II disease has become the standard approach (71) in the hope
of avoiding surgery altogether. Postchemotherapy surgery
is then reserved to those patients who have postchemotherapy and residual radiographic abnormalities. Recent
reports though, that up to a third of patients deemed radiological Stage II upon lymph node dissection were found
pathological Stage I (72), as well as high rates of postchemotherapy surgery to resect residual mature teratoma, following chemotherapy for Stage II A, B disease, may shift the
pendulum back to primary definitive surgery, especially in
patients with Stage II A disease and/or those who do not
have elevated serum tumor markers (73).

Chemotherapy in Metastatic Disease
Good Prognosis Metastatic Disease
For patients with good prognosis disease, the main goal is
to continue to achieve good results with the least amount
of toxicity. A number of randomized trials in Europe and
in the United States have been conducted with this purpose. Using the gold standard regimen of four cycles of
cisplatin, etoposide, bleomycin (BEP) as a framework (74),
modifications have included the deletion of bleomycin (to
reduce the risk of pulmonary fibrosis and sometimes fatal
pneumonitis), the substitution of carboplatin for cisplatin,
and to reduce the chemotherapy by one cycle (3 BEP). The
standard BEP regimen comprises of cisplatin at 20 mg/m2,
days 1–5 (100 mg/m2 per cycle); etoposide is given at
100 mg/m2, days 1–5 (500 mg/m2 per cycle); and bleomycin
is given at 30 mg/week. The regimen is scheduled every
three weeks.
Two studies have investigated three cycles versus
four cycles (74). The largest study that was conducted by
the EORTC and MRC was designed to show therapeutical
equivalence and enrolled 812 patients (75). PFS (90% on 3
BEP, 89% on 4 cycles) and survival were similar. The study
also investigated in a 2 × 2 factorial design whether the
chemotherapy could be delivered over three days (using

Cancers of the Genitourinary Tract

197

the same total dose of the chemotherapy per cycle), instead
of the usual five days. Also, this comparison showed therapeutical equivalence. However, in those patients receiving
four cycles over three days, more ototoxicity was reported.
Hence, the three-day regimen can be considered for patients
for whom three cycles is sufficient therapy. For those
patients scheduled to receive four cycles, the standard
five-day regimen is advised.
Several studies have demonstrated that bleomycin
cannot be deleted from regimens that were used in the 1980s,
and that may be considered suboptimal therapy today;
cisplatin, vinblastine, bleomycin (PVB) and four cycles of
BE360P, (comprising of a reduced dose of etoposide of
360 mg/m2 per cycle) (74).
It is likely that bleomycin can be omitted from four
cycles of BE500P in good prognosis disease. Long-term
follow-up data from 289 patients, treated at MSKCC with
four E500P and who could be reclassified good prognosis
according to the international consensus criteria have shown
PFS in 93% of patients, which is similar to PFS obtained in
the above EORTC/MRC study, indicates therapeutical identical results for 4 EP and 3 BEP (76). A study that was recently
reported on a direct comparison of 3 BEP versus 4 EP was
underpowered to provide a more definitive answer (77). To
date, available data suggest that if there are reasons for concern against the use of bleomycin (sportsmen on one hand
and existing pulmonary comorbidity/cigarette smoking/age
above 40 on the other hand), four cycles of E500P is a valid
alternative treatment option (78).
A study conducted by EORTC and MRC that showed
a significant inferior treatment outcome in patients receiving carboplatin-based chemotherapy (CEB vs. BEP) conclusively terminated the use of carboplatin in patients with
metastatic germ cell cancer.

Postchemotherapy Surgery
Postchemotherapy RPLND should be performed in patients
with residual radiographic abnormalities and normal serum
markers after chemotherapy for nonseminoma. The presence
of elevated markers is usually, but not always, considered
a contraindication to adjunctive surgery after chemotherapy, as in selected cases, patients may be rendered diseasefree by such surgery. At surgery, necrotic debris or fibrosis
is found in 40% to 50% of specimens, mature teratoma
in 40%, and viable germ cell tumor in the remaining 10%
to 20%. PET scanning in the evaluation of postchemotherapy masses has shown conflicting data and remains
investigational.
Viable tumor found at surgery is associated with
an adverse prognosis despite complete resection. Mature
teratoma should be removed as it may grow and become
unresectable. In due course, there is also the risk of possible
malignant transformation to immature teratoma or nongerm
cell malignancies, including sarcoma or adenocarcinoma,
which may not satisfactorily respond to chemotherapy.

Treatment of Patients in Specialized Centers
Differences in chemotherapy dose and schedule adherence
by oncologists working in specialized centers, as well as
the precise radiological recognition of postchemotherapy
residuals and appropriate resection of such residuals, are
important factors that are associated with a significant

198

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

better treatment outcome of patients treated by physicians
who have obtained the routines and skills in the management of germ cell cancer patients (79).

Intermediate and Poor Prognosis (IGCCCG)
For patients with intermediate or poor-risk NSGCT, the
potential cure rate is lower. Studies have addressed alternating chemotherapy, increasing the dose and schedule
intensity of cisplatin, using upfront ifosfamide (VIP) and
various combinations of these approaches (74). As yet,
there is no evidence from randomized studies of improved
results compared to treatment with four cycles of standard
BEP. Research efforts must focus upon this group of patients
with intermediate and poor prognosis. The approach that
is currently investigated in a randomized study in Europe
is the incorporation of paclitaxel (Taxol) in the standard
BEP regimen (T-BEP). The alternative approach of doseintensified VIP chemotherapy plus autologous progenitor
cell support that was recently being studied in Europe as
upfront therapy in patients presenting with poor prognosis
disease was stopped in light of a study report from investigators in the United States that did not show a survival
benefit by using two cycles of BEP followed by two cycles
of high dose chemotherapy, versus conventionally dosed
BEP alone (80).

Salvage Chemotherapy
In the salvage setting, approximately 40% to 50% may attain
disease-free status, but long-term PFS has been reported as
20% to 25% or less, although the outlook may recently be
improving. An incomplete response to first-line treatment
is a poor prognostic factor. It is important to note that
pre- or postchemotherapy debulking surgery is a key element of successful salvage therapy, particularly for localized
disease (81).
For more than a decade, ifosfamide-based chemotherapy was considered standard first-line salvage therapy.
Vinblastine, ifosfamide, and cisplatin (VeIP) was able to
achieve a CR in 56 patients (45%) with 29 (23%) alive and
continuously disease-free at 27 months. New agents such
as paclitaxel have been shown to have activity in relapsed
NSGCT, and paclitaxel, ifosfamide, and cisplatin (TIP)
regimens have recently been assessed as alternative first-line
salvage regimens (82). Other new active agents that may
be considered for use in the salvage setting are gemcitabine
and oxaliplatin.
High-dose chemotherapy with autologous peripheral
blood progenitor cell support has been investigated as salvage treatment for patients who failed first- or second-line
chemotherapy (83,84). Data from Europe and the United
States on 283 patients revealed a prognostic classification
based on four independent variables: remission status prior
to high-dose therapy, primary mediastinal NSGCT, sensitivity to cisplatin, and HCG >1000 U/l. Patients who are
deemed “relapsed good risk” may be salvaged successfully with conventional dose chemotherapy comprising
one or two new agents such as TIP, or with reinduction
conventional dose chemotherapy followed by one single
cycle of high-dose therapy. Patients who are in the
“relapsed poor risk” category have a dismal prognosis (5%
PFS), unless repetitive (2–3) cycles of high-dose therapy are
being utilized (85,86). Hence, in relapsed poor risk disease,

dose intensification may appear a more favorable approach
than incorporating new agents in conventional dose
regimens.

Side Effects of Therapy
Apart from acute side effects of chemotherapy, including
cisplatin-induced emesis, alopecia, and a modest risk of
mucositis and neutropenic complications, BEP chemotherapy is usually well tolerated. Most of the patients
return to ordinary daily life within a few months after the
completion of therapy. Some patients complain of prolonged fatigue that may be because of chemotherapy or
anxiety over the possibility of a disease relapse (which may
recur especially during the first 1–2 years after treatment).
In addition, patients may develop sensory neuropathy, ototoxicity, and/or Raynaud’s phenomenon. These symptoms
frequently diminish within one year. The risk of bleomycin-induced acute and late severe pulmonas toxicity and
death, especially with the use of 3 BEP (cumulative dose
of bleomycin 270 mg), has become rare. Even when the
360 mg total dose is administered (4 BEP), bleomycinrelated death had decreased to less than 1% of patients.
In addition, although pulmonary function tests during or
shortly after the completion of four BEP cycles reveals
abnormalities in approximately 25% of patients, clinical
sequelae are infrequent and these changes have shown to
be mostly reversible within one to two years, especially
in nonsmokers. In the 1980s, anecdotal observations of
perioperative pulmonary complications have been attributed to bleomycin-induced pneumonitis (BIP), elicited by
high inspired oxygen fractions during surgery. Today,
such pulmonary symptoms would be categorized as the
multifactorial adult respiratory distress syndrome, and the
paradigm of avoiding high inspired oxygen fractions forever after previous bleomycin exposure has been largely
abandoned (87).
One of the most disturbing long-term effects identified is the increased risk for cardiovascular morbidity in
testis cancer survivors who have received chemotherapy
(67–69). Several risk factors have been identified, including hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, microalbuminuria,
hormonal alterations, as well as an increased body mass
index and decreased physical activity. As many of these
factors can be notably improved by changes in lifestyle
habits, patients should be encouraged to resume physical
activity after completion of treatment (88).
Men with testicular cancer are at elevated risk for
second neoplasms. Treatment for testicular cancer may be
associated with secondary solid tumors attributed both
to chemotherapy and to RT (69,70). Secondary leukemias
have also been associated with chemotherapy.
Although spermatogenesis does recover in the majority of patients who have normal sperm counts before
chemotherapy, a compensated insufficiency of the function
of Leydig cells may be observed up to 60 months after
therapy.

Seminoma
Seminoma occurs most frequently in the fourth decade
of life. Approximately, 75% of patients with seminoma
present with Stage I disease.

Chapter 10:

Cancers of the Genitourinary Tract

199

Stages I and IIA, IIB

Stages ≥IIC Metastatic Seminoma

Survival rates of >90% have been reported for patients with
clinical Stage I and low Stage II (<5 cm), with orchiectomy
followed by RT to the retroperitoneal and ipsilateral pelvic lymph nodes. Seminoma is radiosensitive and relapses
rarely occur within the radiation field. Local control is
achieved in 92% to 98% of patients (89). The majority of
relapsing patients are successfully salvaged with chemotherapy, with an overall survival of >95%.
In the past, 35 Gy was traditionally used. Today, in
most centers, 25 Gy are given. The MRC conducted a randomized study in 478 men with Stage I (T1–T3) seminoma
to evaluate the optimal field size of adjuvant abdominal
RT. Conventional “dog leg” RT (para-aortic lymph nodes
and ipsilateral iliac lymph nodes) was compared to reduced
field RT to the para-aortic lymph nodes alone. The dose in
both arms was 30 Gy in three weeks. At a median follow-up
of 36 months, the recurrence rate was 4% with equal numbers of relapses in both arms. Toxicity was less in the
reduced field arm. In patients with undisturbed lymph node
drainage, adjuvant RT confined to the para-aortic nodes is
recommended as a standard treatment approach.

RT has an unacceptably high failure rate of 40% to 80% in
bulky Stage II (>5 cm) seminoma. For these patients and
all seminoma patients who present with Stage III nodal or
visceral metastasis, cisplatin-based chemotherapy is highly
effective. BEP is the standard regimen, but bleomycin needs
to be used cautiously in older patients. In elderly patients
the alternative option is four cycles of EP.
In patients with advanced seminoma, 90% of patients
still fall into the good risk category and the remaining 10%
are intermediate prognosis (Table 10.3). They are never in
the poor prognosis group.
Controversy exists as to the best strategy for patients
who present with bulky seminoma and have persistent
radiographic abnormalities on CT scan after cisplatin-based
chemotherapy. Seminoma differs from NSGCT in that residual teratoma is rare and RPLND is usually technically
demanding due to extensive fibrosis in response to chemotherapy. The majority of residual lesions may shrink in
time, and a policy of observation, with intervention if resolution does not occur, has been adopted in many centers.
If the abnormality is >3 cm, options include surgery or
continued observation. The use of a postchemotherapy PET
scan may also help to discriminate between fibrotic remains
and viable tumor.

Surveillance for Stage I Seminoma
In the United Kingdom, Scandinavia, and Canada, investigators have questioned whether RT is necessary in all
patients. The concern is that the majority of patients are
overtreated with RT and there has also been a preoccupation
over the increased number of second cancers in patients
15 to 20 years after RT (69,70,90). Surveillance has, therefore, been explored as an alternative, but it has not been
adopted in the same way as for nonseminomatous germ
cell cancer (NSGCT), partly because of the lack of serum
tumor markers, as well as recurrences occurring more frequently beyond two years, as compared with NSGCT. It
has also been more difficult to identify consistently useful
prognostic factors for Stage I seminoma; the main risk factors appear to be size of the primary tumor and the presence or absence of rate testis invasion and to a lesser extent
the presence or absence of vascular invasion.
The main advantage of surveillance is that >80% of
patients can be spared overtreatment. The main disadvantage is the need for long-term follow-up that is expensive
and stressful to the patient. Good patient compliance, mandatory to an observation policy, is often difficult on a
long-term basis (64).
To date, in view of the recognized risk of late toxicity, there may be an increasing role for surveillance in
Stage I seminoma, especially in patients with small tumors
(less than 4 cm) and no rate testis invasion (59).

Adjuvant Carboplatin for Stage I Seminoma
The MRC and EORTC investigated one cycle of carboplatin with adjuvant RT in a study involving 1477 clinical
Stage I seminoma patients. The relapse-free survival rates
at three and five years were similar, 95% on carboplatin,
and 96% on RT (64 and updated report presented at ASCO
2008). As most relapses in the carboplatin group occurred
below the diaphragm and hence an identical strict radiological follow-up is mandatory as when opting for surveillance, many investigators today still prefer RT for high-risk
seminoma and surveillance for low-risk patients.

CONCLUSIONS
Significant improvements have been made during the past
few decades with respect to the understanding and treatment in all four major genitourinary cancers. Chemotherapy has become a feasible option in CRPC. More effective
and less toxic chemotherapy regimens have been developed
in bladder cancer. There have been significant advances
and approval of novel targeted agents in renal cell cancer,
and testis cancer has become a model for a curable solid
cancer.

REFERENCES
1. Holmberg L, Bill-Axelson A, Helgesen F et al. A randomized
trial comparing radical prostatectomy with watchful waiting
in early prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2002; 347: 781–9.
2. Linton KD, Hamdy FC. Early diagnosis and surgical management of prostate cancer. Cancer Treat Rev 2003; 29: 151–60.
3. Parker CC, Dearnaley DP. Radical radiotherapy for prostate
cancer. Cancer Treat Rev 2003; 29: 161–9.
4. Bolla M, van Tienhoven G, de Reijke THM et al. and EORTC
Radiation Oncology and Genitourinary Tract Cancer Groups.
Concomitant and adjuvant androgen deprivation (ADT) with
external beam irradiation (RT) for locally advanced prostate
cancer: 6 months versus 3 years ADT – Results of the randomized EORTC Phase III trial 22961. Proc Annu Meet Am Soc
Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 238s.
5. D’Amico AV, Denham JW, Bolla M et al. Short- vs long-term
androgen suppression plus external beam radiation therapy
and survival in men of advanced age with node-negative
high-risk adenocarcinoma of the prostate. Cancer 2007; 109:
2004–10.
6. Epstein JI, Pizov G, Walsh PC. Correlation of pathologic findings with progression after radical retropubic prostatectomy.
Cancer 1993; 71: 3582–93.
7. van der Kwast TH, Bolla M, Van Poppel H et al. Identification
of patients with prostate cancer who benefit from immediate

200

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.
20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
postoperative radiotherapy: EORTC 22911. J Clin Oncol 2007;
25: 4178–86.
Dreicer R. Controversies in the systemic management of
patients with evidence of biochemical failure following radical prostatectomy. Cancer Treat Rev 2002; 28: 189–94.
Petrylak DP, Ankerst DP, Jiang CS et al. Evaluation of prostatespecific antigen declines for surrogacy in patients treated on
SWOG 99-16. J Natl Cancer Inst 2006; 98: 516–21.
Armstrong AJ, Garrett Mayer E, Ou Yang YC et al. Prostatespecific antigen and pain surrogacy analysis in metastatic
hormone-refractory prostate cancer. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25:
3965–70.
Scher HI, Halabi S, Tannock I et al. Design and endpoints of
clinical trials for patients with progressive prostate cancer
and castrate levels of testosterone: recommendations of the
Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group (PCWG2).
J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 1148–59.
Tannock IF, de Wit R, Berry WR et al. Docetaxel plus
prednisone or mitoxantrone plus prednisone for advanced
prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2004; 351: 1502–12.
Petrylak DP, Tangen CM, Hussain MH et al. Docetaxel and
estramustine compared with mitoxantrone and prednisone
for advanced refractory prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2004;
351: 1513–20.
Berthold DR, Pond GR, Soban F et al. Docetaxel plus
prednisone or mitoxantrone plus prednisone for advanced
prostate cancer: updated survival in the TAX 327 study.
J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 242–5.
de Wit R. Shifting paradigms in prostate cancer: docetaxel
plus low-dose prednisone — finally an effective chemotherapy.
Eur J Cancer 2005; 41: 502–7.
Berthold DR, Pond GR, Roessner M et al. Treatment of
hormone-refractory prostate cancer with docetaxel or mitoxantrone: relationships between PSA, pain and quality of life
response and survival in the Tax-327 Study. Clin Cancer Res
2008; 14: 2763–7.
Armstrong AJ, Garrett-Mayer ES, Yang YC et al. A contemporary prognostic nomogram for men with hormone-refractory
metastatic prostate cancer: a TAX327 study analysis. Clin
Cancer Res 2007; 13: 6396–403.
van den Hout WB, van der Linden YM, Steenland E et al.
Single- versus multiple-fraction radiotherapy in patients with
painful bone metastases: cost-utility analysis based on a randomized trial. J Natl Cancer Inst 2003; 95: 222–9.
Nelson GW, De Marzo AM, Isaacs WB. Mechanisms of
disease: prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2004; 349: 366–81.
Attard G, Reid AH, Yap TA et al. Phase I clinical trial of a
selective inhibitor of CYP17, abiraterone acetate, confirms
that castration-resistant prostate cancer commonly remains
hormone driven. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 4563–71.
Oosterlinck W, Lobel B, Jakse G et al. European association
of urology guidelines on bladder cancer. Eur Urol 2002; 41:
105–12.
Hall, R. R. Updated results of a randomised controlled trial
of neoadjuvant cisplatin (C), methotrexate (M) and vinblastine
(V) chemotherapy for muscle-invasive bladder cancer. Intl
Collaboration of Trialists of the MRC Advanced Bladder
Cancer Group. Proc Annu Meet Am Soc Clin Oncol 2002;
21: 178a.
Grossman HB, Natale RB, Tangen CM et al. Neoadjuvant
chemotherapy plus cystectomy compared with cystectomy
alone for locally advanced bladder cancer. N Engl J Med
2003; 349: 859–66.
Advanced Bladder Cancer Meta-analysis Collaboration. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy in invasive bladder cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet 2003; 361: 1927–34.
Sternberg CN, Pansadoro V, Calabrò F et al. Can patient
selection for bladder preservation be based on response to
chemotherapy? Cancer 2003; 97: 1644–52.

26.

27.
28.

29.

30.

31.

32.
33.
34.

35.
36.

37.
38.

39.

40.

41.

42.
43.

44.

Stockle M, Meyenburg W, Wellek S. Adjuvant polychemotherapy of nonorgan-confined bladder cancer after radical cystectomy revisited: long term results of a controlled prospective
study and further clinical experience. J Urol 1995; 153: 47–52.
de Wit R, Bellmunt J. Chemotherapy in metastatic urothelial
cancer. Am J Cancer 2002; 1: 23–31.
Sternberg CN, de Mulder PHM, Schornagel JH et al. Randomized phase III trial of high dose intensity methotrexate,
vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin (MVAC) chemotherapy and recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating
factor versus classic MVAC in advanced urothelial tract
tumors: European Organization for Research and Treatment
of Cancer. Protocol No. 30924. J Clin Oncol 2001; 19: 2638–46.
Sternberg CN, Vogelzang NJ. Gemcitabine, paclitaxel, pemetrexed and other newer agents in urothelial and kidney
cancers. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol 2003; 46(Suppl): S105–15.
von der Maase H, Hansen SW, Roberts JT et al. Gemcitabine
and cisplatin versus methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin,
and cisplatin in advanced or metastatic bladder cancer:
results of a large, randomized, multinational, multicenter,
phase III study. J Clin Oncol 2000; 18: 3068–77.
Bellmunt J, von der Maase H, Mead GM et al. Randomized
phase III study comparing paclitaxel/cisplatin/gemcitabine
and gemcitabine/cisplatin in patients with locally advanced
or metastatic urothelial cancer without prior systemic therapy: EORTC 30987/intergroup study. Proc Annu Meet Am
Soc Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 242s.
Kim WY, Kaelin WG. Role of VHL gene mutation in human
cancer. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 4991–5004.
Hanna SC, Heathcote SA, Kim WY. mTOR pathway in renal
cell carcinoma. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther 2008; 8: 283–92.
Linehan WM, Vasselli J, Srinivasan R et al. Genetic basis of
cancer of the kidney: disease-specific approaches to therapy.
Clin Cancer Res 2004; 10: 6282S–6289S.
Vaishampayan U. A review of current and future treatment
options in renal cancer. Am J Cancer 2003; 2: 201–10.
Novick AC. Current surgical approaches, nephron-sparing
surgery and the role of surgery in the integrated immunologic approach to renal cell carcinoma. Semin Oncol 1995; 22:
29–33.
Glaspy JA. Therapeutic options in the management of renal
cell carcinoma. Semin Oncol 2002; 29: 41–6.
Motzer RJ, Bacik J, Murphy BA et al. Interferon-alfa as a
comparative treatment for clinical trials of new therapies
against advanced renal cell carcinoma. J Clin Oncol 2002; 20:
289–96.
Mickisch GH, Garin A, Van Poppel H et al. and European
Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)
Genitourinary Group. Radical nephrectomy plus interferonalfa-based immunotherapy compared with interferon alfa
alone in metastatic renal-cell carcinoma: a randomised trial.
Lancet 2001; 358: 966–70.
Flanigan RC, Salmon SE, Blumenstein BA et al. Nephrectomy
followed by interferon alfa-2b compared with interferon
alfa-2b alone for metastatic renal-cell cancer. N Engl J Med
2001; 345: 1655–9.
Mertens WC, Eisenhauer EA, Moore M et al. Gemcitabine
in advanced renal cell carcinoma. A phase II study of the
national cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group.
Ann Oncol 1993; 4: 331–2.
Margolin KA. Interleukin-2 in the treatment of renal cancer.
Semin Oncol 2000; 27: 194–203.
Sandlund J, Oosterwijk E, Grankvist K et al. Prognostic
impact of carbonic anhydrase IX expression in human renal
cell carcinoma. BJU Int 2007; 100: 556–60.
Yang JC, Haworth L, Sherry RM et al. A randomized trial of
bevacizumab, an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor antibody, for metastatic renal cancer. N Engl J Med 2003; 349:
427–34.

Chapter 10:
45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

59.

60.

61.
62.

63.

Escudier B, Pluzanska A, Koralewski P et al. Bevacizumab
plus interferon alfa-2a for treatment of metastatic renal cell
carcinoma: a randomised, double-blind phase III trial. Lancet
2007; 370: 2103–11.
Rini B, Halabi S, Rosenberg JE et al. CALGB 90206: a phase
III trial of bevacizumab plus interferon-alpha versus interferonalpha monotherapy in metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Genitourinary Cancer Symposium San Francisco, CA, 2008.
Motzer RJ, Michaelson MD, Redman BG et al. Activity of
SU11248, a multitargeted inhibitor of vascular endothelial
growth factor receptor and platelet-derived growth factor
receptor, in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma.
J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 16–24.
Motzer RJ, Rini BI, Bukowski RM et al. Sunitinib in patients
with metastatic renal cell carcinoma. JAMA 2006; 295:
2516–24.
Motzer RJ, Hutson TE, Tomczak P et al. Sunitinib versus
interferon alfa in metastatic renal-cell carcinoma. N Engl J
Med 2007; 356: 115–24.
Figlin R, Hutson TE, Tomczak P et al. Overall survival with
sunitinib versus interferon-alfa as first-line treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Proc Annu Meet Am Soc Clin
Oncol 2008; 26: abstract 5024.
Ratain MJ, Eisen T, Stadler WM et al. Phase II placebocontrolled randomized discontinuation trial of sorafenib in
patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma. J Clin Oncol
2006; 24: 2505–12.
Escudier B, Eisen T, Stadler WM et al. Sorafenib in advanced
clear-cell renal-cell carcinoma. N Engl J Med 2007; 356:
125–34.
Szcylik C, Demkow T, Staehler M et al. Randomized phase
II trial of first-line treatment with sorafenib versus interferon
in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma: final results.
Proc Annu Meet Am Soc Clin Oncol 2007; 25: abstract
5025.
Atkins MB, Hidalgo M, Stadler WM et al. Randomized phase
II study of multiple dose levels of CCI-779, a novel mammalian target of rapamycin kinase inhibitor, in patients with
advanced refractory renal cell carcinoma. J Clin Oncol 2004;
22: 909–18.
Hudes G, Carducci M, Tomczak P et al. Temsirolimus, interferon alfa, or both for advanced renal-cell carcinoma. N Engl
J Med 2007; 356: 2271–81.
Motzer R, Escudier B, Oudard S et al. Efficacy of Everolimus
in advanced renal cell carcinoma: a double-blind, randomised,
placebo-controlled phase III trial. Lancet 2008; 372: 449–56.
Rixe O, Bukowski RM, Michaelson MD et al. Axitinib treatment in patients with cytokine-refractory metastatic renal-cell
cancer: a phase II study. Lancet Oncol 2007; 8: 975–84.
Hutson TE, Davis ID, Machiels JP et al. Pazopanib (GW786034)
is active in metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC): interim
results of a phase II randomized discontinuation trial (RDT).
Proc Annu Meet Am Soc Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 242s.
Jones RH, Vasey PA. New directions in testicular cancer;
molecular determinants of oncogenesis and treatment success. Eur J Cancer 2003; 39: 147–56.
Toner GC. Early identification of therapeutic failure in nonseminomatous germ cell tumors by assessing serum tumor
marker decline during chemotherapy: still not ready for routine clinical use. J Clin Oncol 2004; 19: 3842–5.
Herr HW. Is biopsy of the contralateral testis necessary in
patients with germ cell tumors? J Urol 1997; 158: 1331–4.
International Germ Cell Cancer Collaborative Group. International germ cell consensus classification: a prognostic factor
based staging system for metastatic germ cell cancers. J Clin
Oncol 1997; 15: 594–603.
Fossa SD, Oliver RTH, Stenning SP et al. Prognostic factors
for patients with advanced seminoma treated with platinumbased chemotherapy. Eur J Cancer 1997; 33: 1380–7.

Cancers of the Genitourinary Tract

201

64. de Wit R, Fizazi K. Controversies in the management of
clinical stage I testis cancer. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 5482–92.
65. Klepp O, Dahl O, Flodgren P et al. Risk-adapted treatment
of clinical stage 1 non-seminoma testis cancer. Eur J Cancer
1997; 33: 1038–44.
66. Horwich A, Cullen MH, Stenning SP. Primary chemotherapy
after orchidectomy for stage I and II nonseminoma. Semin
Oncol 1998; 25: 154–9.
67. Huddart RA, Norman A, Shahidi M et al. Cardiovascular
disease as a long-term complication of treatment for testicular cancer. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 1513–23.
68. Van den Belt-Dusebout AW, Nuver J, de Wit R et al. Longterm risk of cardiovascular disease in 5-year survivors of
testicular cancer. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 467–75.
69. Van den Belt-Dusebout AW, de Wit R, Gietema JA et al.
Treatment-specific risks of second malignancies and cardiovascular disease in 5-year survivors of testicular cancer. J Clin
Oncol 2007; 25: 4270–378.
70. Travis LB, Fossa DS, Schonfeld SJ et al. Second cancers among
40,576 cancer patients: focus on long-term survivors. J Natl
Cancer Inst 2005; 97: 1354–65.
71. Culine S, Theodore C, Court BH et al. Evaluation of primary
standard cisplatin-based chemotherapy for clinical stage II
non-seminomatous germ cell tumours of the testis. Br J Urol
1997; 79: 258–62.
72. Stephenson AJ, Bosl GJ, Motzer RJ et al. Non-randomized
comparison of primary chemotherapy and retroperitoneal
lymph node dissection for clinical stage II A and II B nonseminomatous germ cell testicular cancer. J Clin Oncol 2007;
25: 5597–602.
73. de Wit R. Optimal management of retroperitoneal metastatic
nonseminomatous testicular cancer; towards better selection
between scalpel and needle. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 5550–2.
74. de Wit R. Treatment of disseminated non-seminomatous
testicular cancer: the european experience. Semin Surg Oncol
1999; 17: 250–6.
75. de Wit R, Roberts JT, Wilkinson P et al. Equivalence of three
or four cycles of bleomycin, etopposide, and cisplatin chemotherapy and of a 3- or 5-day schedule in good-prognosis germ
cell cancer: a randomized study of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Genitourinary
Tract Cancer Cooperative Group and the Medical Research
Council. J Clin Oncol 2001; 19: 1629–40.
76. Kondagunta GV, Bacik J, Bajorin DF et al. Etoposide and
cisplatin chemotherapy for metastatic good-risk germ cell
tumors. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 9290–4.
77. Culine S, Kerbrat P, Kramar A et al. Refining the optimal
chemotherapy regimen for good-risk metastatic nonseminomatous germ-cell tumors: a randomized trial of the GenitoUrinary Group of the French Federation of Cancer Centers
(GETUG T93BP). Ann Oncol 2007; 18: 917–24.
78. de Wit R. Refining the optimal chemotherapy regimen in
good prognosis germ cell cancer; interpretation of the current
body of knowledge. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 4346–9.
79. Collette L, Sylvester RJ, Stenning SP et al. Impact of the treatment institution on survival of patients with “poor-prognostic”
metastatic nonseminoma. J Natl Cancer Inst 1999; 91: 839–46.
80. Motzer RJ, NIchols CJ, Margolin KA et al. Phase III randomized
trial of conventional-dose chemotherapy with or without highdose chemotherapy and autologous hematopoietic stem-cell
rescue as first-line treatment for patients with poor prognosis
metastatic germ cell tumors. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 239–40.
81. Fizazi K, Tjulandin S, Salvioni R et al. Viable malignant cells
after primary chemotherapy for disseminated nonseminomatous germ cell tumors: prognostic factors and role of postsurgery chemotherapy—results from an international study
group. J Clin Oncol 2001; 19: 2647–57.
82. Kondagunta GV, Bacik J, Donadio A et al. Combination of
paclitaxel, ifosfamide, and cisplatin is an effective second-line

202

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

therapy for patients with relapsed testicular germ cell tumors.
J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 6549–55.
83. Rick O, Kollmannsberger C, Beyer J et al. Current aspects of
high-dose chemotherapy in germ-cell tumors. Crit Rev Oncol
Hematol 2003; 47: 237–48.
84. Bokemeyer C, Harstrick A, Beyer J et al. The use of doseintensified chemotherapy in the treatment of metastatic nonseminomatous testicular germ cell tumours. German Testicular
Cancer Study Group. Semin Oncol 1998; 25(2 Suppl 4): 24–32.
85. Motzer RJ, Mazumdar M, Sheinfeld J et al. Sequential doseintensive paclitaxel, ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide
salvage therapy for germ cell tumor patients. J Clin Oncol
2000; 18: 1173–80.

86. Bhatia S, Abonour R, Porcu P et al. High-dose chemotherapy
as initial salvage chemotherapy in patients with relapsed
testicular cancer. J Clin Oncol 2000; 18: 3346–51.
87. de Wit R, Sleijfer S, Kaye SB et al. Bleomycin and scuba
diving; where is the harm? Lancet Oncol 2007; 8: 954–5.
88. Meinardi MT, Gietema JA, Graaf van der WTA et al. Cardiovascular morbidity in long-term survivors of metastatic testicular cancer. J Clin Oncol 2000; 18: 1725–32.
89. Schultz HP, von der Maase H, Rorth M et al. Testicular
seminoma in Denmark 1976–1980. Acta Radiol Oncol 1984;
23: 263–9.
90. Zagars GK, Ballo MT, Lee AK et al. Mortality after cure of
testicular seminoma. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 640–7.

11
1
Sarcomas
Jean-Yves Blay and Isabelle Ray-Coquard

differences revealed by immunohistochemical analysis or
molecular markers specific for different histological subtypes. Other histopathological or molecular entities will
likely be identified through the ongoing development of
novel molecular biology techniques (4,5).
Despite the increasing knowledge of the molecular
alteration of these tumors, prognosis is still based on a
simple histological grading of the tumor. Among several
grading systems available, the most widely accepted is the
classification initially proposed by the Sarcoma Group of
the French Federation of Cancer Centers now used in the
WHO classification (6,7). Tumors are classified according
to three parameters: the mitotic index, the presence of
necrosis, and cell differentiation. This classification has
demonstrated prognostic value for predicting the risk of
local relapse, metastatic spread or death, with five-year
survival rates of 95%, 75%, and 45% in patients with grade
1, 2, or 3 tumors, respectively (6).

Soft tissue sarcomas (STS) represent a group of rare tumors,
accounting for less than 2% of all adult malignancies and
10% to 15% of children malignancies. They constitute a
heterogeneous group of rare tumors arising from the resident
cells of connective tissues (1). The overall yearly incidence
of sarcoma from all sites is not well known, but has likely
been underestimated and probably ranges between 5 and
7 new cases/100,000/year (2).
In adults, 50% of the patients will relapse into their
disease. A careful clinical management by a multidisciplinary team of experienced cancer specialists is crucial in
these diseases. Patient survival is dependent on the quality
of care provided, at any stage of patient management, from
diagnosis to treatment. This chapter describes the major
diagnostic features and the natural history of sarcomas,
summarizes strategies for the clinical management of the
disease, and describes ongoing development in the systemic
treatments of this disease.

MOLECULAR BIOLOGY OF SARCOMAS

HISTOPATHOLOGY OF SOFT TISSUE SARCOMAS

There is a wide variety of DNA alterations observed in
sarcoma. These tumors can be classified into distinct
molecular and pathological entities: six molecular subgroups of connective tissue tumors may be distinguished
as of now, keeping in mind that this is a rapidly evolving
classification (4,5,8–18):

STSs are a heterogeneous group of diseases with distinct
histological, cytological, and molecular features. Tumors
originate from mesodermal or, more rarely, ectodermal
tissues and are classified histologically according to the
soft tissue cell that they resemble: in leiomyosarcomas, for
instance, cells have cytological and phenotypical characteristics also observed in smooth muscle cells. At macroscopic
examination, STS generally present as tan-white masses
with a fish-flesh appearance with frequent focal hemorrhage and necrosis, the two features considered relevant
for prognosis.
The histological classification of sarcomas has been
revisited recently (3). Each type may be divided into several subtypes depending on genetic abnormalities and
large differences in disease history. Well-differentiated
liposarcomas, for instance, are slow-growing, localized
tumors that may acquire additional genetic alteration and
become dedifferentiated; conversely, myxoid and round
cell liposarcomas are associated with aggressive local and
metastatic behavior and have a completely different set of
genetic alterations; finally, pleomorphic liposarcoma represents a third subtype of liposarcoma with an even more
aggressive clinical presentation and a third different set of
genetic alterations. Some of the major histological subtypes
described in the previous large series, such as malignant
fibrous histiocytomas (MFHs), have been redistributed into
other subtypes following the identification of phenotypic

1. Sarcomas with specific translocations generating fusion
gene whose protein products modulate transcription
or may act as growth factors (e.g., EWS/Fli1 in Ewing
family of tumors, PDGF-col1a1 in DFSP). These translocations give rise to fusion genes whose protein products often exert transcriptional regulatory activity. These
translocations are specific for nosological entities and
were identified initially by cytogenetic approaches
(4,5,8,9). Now they can be identified using polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) or fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for diagnostic purposes. The most frequent
translocations are described in Table 11.1.
2. Sarcomas with mutated activated kinases (e.g., KIT in
gastrointestinal stromal tumor, GIST). These alterations
affect genes coding for cytokines or cytokine tyrosine
kinase receptors. GISTs, for instance, are characterized
by frequent mutations of KIT, the gene encoding for
the stem cell factor receptor, or platelet-derived growth
factor receptor alpha (PDGFRA) whose activated protein products play an important role in the oncogenic
process of these tumors (10–12).
203

204

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 11.1

Translocations in Sarcomas

Tumor

Translocation

Fusion gene

Incidence (%)

Ewing/PNET

t(11;22)(q24;q12)
t(21;22)(q22;q12)
t(7;22)(p22;q12)
t(17;22)(q12;q12)
t(2;22)(q33;q12)
t(11;22)(p13;q12)
t(12;16)(q13;p11)
t(12;22)(q13;q12)
t(9;22)(q22;q12)
t(12;22)(q13;q12)
t(X;18)(p11.23;q11)
t(X;18)(p11.21;q11)
t(2;13)(q35;q14)
t(1;13)(p36;q14)
t(17;22)(q22;q13)
t(12;15)(p13;q25)

EWS-FLI1
EWS-ERG
EWS-ETV1
EWS-E1AF
EWS-FEV
EWS-WT1
TLS-CHOP
EWS-CHOP
EWS-CHN
EWS-ATF1
SYT-SSX1
SYT-SSX2
PAX3-FKHR
PAX7-FKHR
COL1A1-PDGFB
ETV6-NTRK3

85
10
Rare
Rare
Rare
95
95
5
75
Unknown
65
35
75
10
Unknown
Unknown

DSRCTa
Myxoid liposarcoma
Extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma
Clear cell sarcoma
Synovialosarcoma
Alveolar
Rhabdomyosarcoma
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans
Congenital fibrosarcoma
a

Desmoplastic small round cell tumor.

3. Sarcomas with deletion of tumor suppressor genes such
as NF1 in sarcomas associated with Recklinghausen
disease or rhabdoid tumors (INI1) (13,14).
4. Sarcomas with simple genetic alterations [mdm2/cdk4
amplification in well differentiated/dedifferentiated
(WD/DD) liposarcomas] (15,16).
5. Sarcomas with gross genetic alterations, including
amplifications and deletion of large chromosome segments (e.g., leiomyosarcomas) (17). These alterations
frequently involve the Rb gene.
6. Closely linked to sarcoma are connective tissue tumors
with locoregional spreading behavior with alterations of
the intercellular adhesion pathways, for example, aggressive fibromatosis with APC alterations—in Gardner’s
syndrome—or beta catenin mutations (18).

EPIDEMIOLOGY OF SOFT TISSUE SARCOMAS
STSs are known to be a collection of rare diseases, but
altogether, these rare tumors are not that infrequent. Overall, the incidence of soft tissue, bone, and visceral sarcomas
is probably close to 6/100,000/year. However, this is the
overall incidence of all 50+ subtypes, and for some subtypes
the incidence may be as low as 1/1,000,000/year (2).
The etiology of these diseases is not known for most
patients (1). Several predisposing genetic abnormalities
have been identified, such as constitutional mutations of
the genes Rb (hereditary retinoblastoma), p53 (Li–Fraumeni
syndrome), APC (Gardner syndrome), NF1 (neurofibromatosis), WRN (Werner syndrome), or c-kit (familial GIST).
Exposure to ionizing radiation is a well-established
extrinsic risk factor for the disease. Sarcomas often develop
at the site of radiation. This holds true independent of the
part of the body that is affected, although most studies
have investigated sarcomas developing after breast cancer
treatment, mainly osteosarcomas, angiosarcomas, and MFH.
Chronic lymphedema (Stewart–Treves syndrome) has also
been identified as a major risk factor, just as exposure to
toxic substances such as some herbicides and food preservatives (phenoxyacetic acids and chlorophenols), thorotrast

or vinyl chloride has been shown to increase the risk of
developing sarcoma. Finally, retrospective studies frequently mention a history of previous injuries as a possible
triggering factor for the disease, though no clear causative
link has yet been demonstrated.

CLINICAL PRESENTATION OF SOFT TISSUE SARCOMAS
A sarcoma should be suspected in any patient presenting
with a superficial or deep tumor of unidentified histological type, larger than 5 cm, arising in the soft tissues.
More than 70% of STS are larger than 5 cm at initial diagnosis (6). The diagnostic procedure of sarcoma, including
specific imaging and biopsy by an expert surgeon or radiologist should be considered in this case, ideally following
a multidisciplinary consultation (19,20).
STS can occur at any age, in any part of the body.
However, histological type varies with age: synovial sarcomas, rhabdomyosarcomas, and Ewing’s sarcomas are more
likely to occur in young adults, whereas MFH and leiomyosarcomas are more frequent in the elderly, and liposarcomas are generally diagnosed in patients between the ages
of 40 and 50. These ranges are only meant as a rough guide,
and any STS subtype may arise at virtually any age.
The sites most frequently involved are the lower
(40%) and upper (15%) extremities, the abdomen and retroperitoneum (15%), the viscera (uterus, gastrointestinal
track, lung, kidney, etc.) (20%), the thorax (5%), and the
head and neck (5%).
Disease progression is first local with invasion of
neighboring structures and possible dissemination to adjacent tissue compartments (fascia, skin, organ, cortical bone,
vessels, nerves, etc.). Tumors are rarely metastatic at initial
diagnosis and 80% to 90% of tumors are discovered in the
localized phase. Distant spread of malignant cells occurs
through the bloodstream to other organs; this occurs in 50%
of the patients principally to the lung (the most common
metastatic site for extraabdominal tumors), less frequently
to the liver or bones. Intraabdominal or retroperitoneal
sarcomas are generally associated with local and regional

Chapter 11:

relapses, with metastases developing in the abdomen, the
peritoneal cavity, or the liver. Metastases to the soft tissues
or the brain also occur in patients with end-stage disease
or with specific histological subtypes of STS. In all cases,
nodal involvement is rare.

Sarcomas

205

Young age, female gender, low histological grade, and
Stage 1 tumors are associated with good prognosis and
low invasiveness, whereas the prognosis for patients with
high-grade (Grade 3) Stage 2 tumors, positive (R1 or R2)
resection margins, local relapses, or aggressive histological
subtypes (leiomyosarcoma, neurosarcoma, or synovial
sarcoma) is generally poor.

MORPHOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT AND INITIAL BIOPSY
Morphological assessment is performed to evaluate disease
extension, notably to identify a possible extension of the
tumor to the vascular system or to the adjacent bone structures and organs. Morphological imaging may also guide
in determining the tumor type and in making treatment
decisions.
Precise histological examination of a tumor specimen
is required to confirm the diagnosis before treatment is
initiated. For all soft tissue tumors of unknown etiology
larger than 5 cm, it is essential to have a careful review of
the biopsy tissue performed by an experienced pathologist.
If performed by a surgeon, the biopsy should always be
obtained by the surgeon who will eventually remove the
tumor. A small incision, oriented parallel to the long axis
of the extremity, is required so that the biopsy trajectory
and scar are encompassed by the subsequent definitive
resection of the tumor. After histopathological examination,
samples are processed and stored for molecular analysis.
In collaboration with the clinicians involved in the surgical
management of the patients, skilled imaging specialists
should obtain tissue biopsies for histopathological examination and diagnosis of malignancy (19–22). For GISTs,
preoperative biopsy is not uniformly recommended in
consensus guidelines (23).
Morphological assessment includes computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
MRI is the technique of choice for limb localizations,
whereas CT scan examination is preferred for tumors
arising in the abdomen or the chest. Preoperative staging
is based on thoracic CT scan, and for some subtypes (GIST,
abdominal, and pelvic sarcomas), abdominal and pelvic CT
scan. Other investigations may be required according to
the specific clinical signs and symptoms of each patient.
Unfortunately, in most European countries, the
majority of patients is not treated according to these guidelines and are referred to expert centers following the initial
locoregional treatment. A retrospective study suggested a
detrimental impact on patient survival in case of noncompliance to clinical practice guidelines and treatment outside
networks or expert centers (20).

STAGING AND PROGNOSTIC FACTORS
FOR SOFT TISSUE SARCOMAS
Clinicopathological staging of the tumor is essential for
determining the most effective treatment strategy. The classification systems most frequently used are based on the
size (T1 < 5 cm, T2 > 5 cm) and histological grade (1–3) of
the tumor and also differentiate between superficial (above
the superficial fascia) and deep lesions (6,7). The risks of
local recurrence, metastatic relapse, or disease-related death
depend on several factors, including the type and location
of the tumor and patient clinical management (1,6,7).

TREATMENT OF SOFT TISSUE SARCOMAS
STSs are heterogeneous diseases that require multidisciplinary clinical management combining surgery, radiation
oncology, and chemotherapy, based on accurate radiological
and histological diagnosis.

Surgery
Surgical excision of the primary tumor is the treatment of
choice for patients with a soft tissue or visceral sarcoma
diagnosed on initial biopsy (1,19,21). It should be the first
treatment option when conservative resection is both feasible in agreement with clinical practice guidelines, that
is, en bloc, macro- and microscopically complete surgical
excision of the gross tumor encompassing the biopsy scar
(this defines an R0 resection). The persistence of microscopic
residual disease (R1 resection) is associated with a higher
risk of relapse, and re-resection should be considered when
technically feasible. Patients with macroscopically incomplete
surgery will all relapse and secondary surgical excision of
residual disease is therefore mandatory unless the medical
condition of the patients makes it unfeasible.
Microscopically complete resection (R0) can be difficult at some sites (sarcomas of the retroperitoneum, for
instance). Multidisciplinary team collaboration is therefore
essential at all stages of the surgical process (biopsy, initial
surgery, secondary resection). Most experienced teams perform systematic secondary surgery when the above criteria
are not met.
For sarcomas of the extremities, an adequate surgery
may require amputation, a complete resection of the tumor
bed or wide local excision with negative tissue margins.
The optimal extent of these resection margins is currently
debated. The procedure most frequently used is conservative limb-sparing local surgery; amputation is less frequently proposed in recent years following the publication
of the results of a randomized trial showing similar outcome in patients treated with amputation versus conservative surgery and radiotherapy (24). In the case of a tumor
with a locoregional extent that would not allow for any
conservative treatment, neoadjuvant chemotherapy may be
proposed by experienced teams after a careful consideration of the operability of the patients; in some patients,
this strategy may aid in proposing a conservative treatment
if sufficient shrinkage of the tumor can be obtained (25).
Combination with hyperthermia has been reported to
improve local tumor control in a single randomized trial
reported by Issels et al. at ASCO 2007 (26). This technique
is however available only in a limited number of centers
in some countries (26).
Amputation is still considered in cases of local
relapse following an optimal locoregional treatment. However, in some European centers, isolated limb perfusion

206

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

with tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is used as a rescue treatment, as it has been demonstrated to induce tumor shrinkage
enabling complete resection of the relapsing tumor without
amputation in up to 70% of the cases (27,28).

Radiation Therapy
This is the second option for the local treatment of STS.
Radiation therapy alone at the classical 60 Gy dose per 2 Gy
fractions is insufficient to achieve local control of the disease. It is generally used in combination with conservative
surgery for patients with R0 or R1 tumors, notably lesions
with microscopically positive margins or residual disease
(R1) for which secondary resection is not feasible. Several
randomized trials have shown that radiation therapy,
either brachytherapy or external beam radiotherapy,
improves local tumor control (29–31). The total radiation
dose is usually between 50 and 60 Gy, given in 1.8- to 2-Gy
daily fractions delivered to a target volume encompassing
the tumor and safety margins. A randomized trial of preoperative radiotherapy versus postoperative radiotherapy
showed no significant difference in tumor control, but a
significantly higher early toxicity in the preoperative arm,
with however a higher rate of late complications in the
postoperative arm (31).
Patients with macroscopically positive margins (R2)
must undergo secondary resection to achieve R0 or R1
before receiving radiation therapy. If not feasible, radiation
therapy may be given with a palliative intent in this setting. Proton beam therapy and carbon ion therapy have
been reported to yield encouraging results in these clinical
situations. In a study reported on 57 patients, Kamada
et al. reported an overall local control rate of 73% at three
years, with three-year overall survival (OS) rates 82% and
46%, respectively (32).

Chemotherapy
In 2000, three drugs were considered to have a proven
efficacy against STS: doxorubicin, ifosfamide, and dacarbazine (DTIC). Still in 2008, most first-line regimens contain
doxorubicin either used as a single agent (A) at an optimal
dose of 75 mg/m2 or a combination of doxorubicin and
ifosfamide (AI) possibly associated with dacarbazine (MAID).
Higher response rates are obtained with combined chemotherapy regimens, but Phase III comparative studies have
not demonstrated any survival benefit of the combination
of drugs over single-agent doxorubicin (33).
Four types of approaches are used in patients with
STS: adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy, isolated limb
perfusion, and chemotherapy for metastatic disease.

Adjuvant Chemotherapy
Sixteen randomized Phase III trials have evaluated the
benefit of postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy to prevent
local relapse in high-risk STS patients with localized disease.
Because STS is a rare disease, most trials have involved
relatively small patient populations. In a majority of cases,
a reduction of the risk of local recurrence has been observed
among patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy. Some
other studies have shown a lower risk of metastatic progression, whereas only few have reported improved survival.
A meta-analysis of all published studies has confirmed a

significant reduction of the risk of relapse, either local or
metastatic, but with a nonsignificant reduction of the risk
of death (–4%) (34). A more recent trial from the Italian
Sarcoma Group showed a significant improvement in OS
for patients with high-risk sarcoma of the extremities
receiving adjuvant chemotherapy with ifosfamide (35), but
the OS benefit was not sustained with additional follow-up.
Individual variations in the risk of relapse, respect of dose
intensity, variable dosing of drugs, as well as other, yet
unknown, factors may account for these discrepancies. In
2007, the largest adjuvant trial of chemotherapy with doxorubicin and ifosfamide in STS performed with the EORTC
STBSG presented at ASCO 2007 and 2008 meetings failed
to demonstrate a significant survival benefit for adjuvant
chemotherapy (36).
Therefore, with the exception of Ewing’s sarcoma of
the soft parts (see under “Ewing family of tumors”) and
alveolar or embryonal rhabdomyosarcomas of the soft
tissues, adjuvant chemotherapy cannot be considered a
standard option for patients with STS and treatment must
be tailored to the needs of each individual patient (13).

Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy
As mentioned above, neoadjuvant chemotherapy is used
prior to surgery to control microscopic residual disease and
shrink the size of the tumor in order to allow complete
“oncological” surgical resection (R0, or at least R1). This
strategy is used for the treatment of “locally advanced”
tumors. The chemotherapy regimens most commonly used
in the neoadjuvant setting are combinations of drugs
because of the superior response rates observed in several
of the randomized trials (33). The exact benefit of this
strategy and in particular the percentage of patients achieving conservative tumor resection with this strategy has
however not been prospectively addressed. Again, a multidisciplinary approach is advised for these patients. Finally
it should be noted that the only randomized trial comparing
neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by surgery versus
surgery only, which was reported by the EORTC STBSG
failed to demonstrate a significant tumor control rate or
survival advantage (37).

Isolated Limb Perfusion with TNF and Melphalan
The technique previously mentioned in the surgery section
combines surgery and drug treatment. Tumor necrosis
factor, a cytokine able to disrupt tumor neovascularization
and the cytotoxic drug melphalan are delivered directly
into the limb after temporary isolation of its vasculature to
spare the rest of the body from the side effects of treatment.
Surgical resection of the residual tumor mass is performed
after two or three months. This treatment strategy achieves
effective local control of the disease and makes limb-sparing
surgery possible for patients with local relapse or locally
advanced tumors of the extremities (27,28).

Chemotherapy for Metastatic Disease:
Individualization in Progress
Since 2000, treatment of advanced sarcoma has undergone
major changes. In the setting of advanced disease, chemotherapy with a doxorubicin-based regimen is the treatment
of choice for most histological subtypes, although response

Chapter 11:

rates are in most series in the 25% to 35% range with
doxorubin and ifosfamide combinations, with median
progression-free survival (PFS) and OS of 6 and 12 months,
respectively (38). These features have shown little or no
improvement over the past 20 years and most regimens
have been considered too toxic, while in most cases failing
to show a survival advantage over single agent doxorubicin.
Of note, regardless of the regimen, a small proportion of
patients with advanced disease will be long-term survivors;
the proportion reaches 20% for patients achieving CR, but
ranges from 3% to 4% of patients with PR and SD as best
response to first line treatment (39). Advanced sarcoma
should therefore be considered as a potentially curable
disease, even though the proportion of cured patients still
remains very low in 2008.
There is therefore room for improvement in advanced
STSs, and most innovative treatments for sarcomas are
currently developed for metastatic disease. Emerging drugs
for the treatment of sarcomas can be divided into two large
groups of agents: cytotoxic agents (i.e., chemotherapy) and
molecular targeted agents (i.e., targeted therapies).

New Cytotoxic Agents in Sarcomas
Different cytotoxic agents have now shown activity in sarcomas, including taxanes, trabectedin, and other agents still
under evaluation.
The taxanes, docetaxel, and paclitaxel enhance microtubule assembly and inhibit the depolymerization of tubulin
when given at high doses in vitro; they act through disruption of microtubule dynamics at therapeutic doses in vivo.
The activities of docetaxel and gemcitabine remain limited
as single agents in the treatment of sarcomas. However,
docetaxel when combined with gemcitabine has shown
high activity (18.4% objective response rate in STS and up
to 53% in leiomyosarcoma) in first- and second-line chemotherapy with a rather favorable toxicity profile (40). A randomized Phase II study demonstrated improved PFS with
G + D as compared to G, with an original Bayesian statistical methodology (41). Of note this is the first ever published randomized trial showing improvement in OS in
advanced sarcoma. At ASCO 2008, however, a small randomized study by the French sarcoma group, including
only patients with leiomyosarcomas and comparing the
same two options, failed to confirm the advantage of G +
D over G, possibly because of limited power of the study
(42). Interestingly, in the rare subset of angiosarcomas,
paclitaxel has been reported to induce remarkable activity
in retrospective studies, in particular in lesions of the head
and neck and the scalp, a disease considered generally as
chemo resistant after failure of doxorubicin (43,44).
Trabectedin (ecteinascidin 743, ET-743), is a marinederived compound that binds covalently to the DNA minor
groove, blocking G2/M progression, inducing p53 independent apoptosis, and blocking transcription of inducible
genes. The recommended dose is 1.5 mg/m2 as a 24-hour
continuous infusion. Several Phase II trials assessing the
efficacy and toxicity of ET-743 in patients with advanced
STS failing first-line chemotherapy have been published
(45–47): all trials have shown rather low response rates
(4%, 8%, and 8%, respectively), but a high rate of prolonged
stable disease (six months PFS = 24%, 29%, and more than
20%, respectively). Toxicities in these trials were mainly

Sarcomas

207

hepatic and hematological and they were mild with less
than 10% febrile neutropenia, no febrile neutropenia in the
American trial, about 20% grade 3–4 thrombocytopenia,
and 40% to 50% of patients experiencing AST and/or ALT
elevation. ET-743 has therefore an interesting activity in
advanced sarcoma with a manageable toxicity profile. Preliminary results of a randomized Phase II trial, STS201,
comparing ET743 1.5 mg/m2/day 24 CI every 21 days
versus 0.58 mg/m2 as a three-hour weekly infusion three
weeks out of four, showed an improvement in PFS and a
trend for OS benefit with the three-weekly schedule (47).
ET-743 may be particularly efficient for the treatment of
some molecular subtypes of sarcomas, in particular myxoid
liposarcomas (46).
Brostallicin is a new cytotoxic agent that binds to the
DNA minor groove with specificity for TA rich sequences.
Phase II of brostallicin has recently been published (48)
showing promising activity of this compound in STS. In
non-GIST STS (n = 43) (patients failing first-line chemotherapy), two PRs were seen (ORR = 5%) and six months
PFS was 22%. Based on these results, a randomized EORTC
Phase II study of brostallicin versus doxorubicin as first-line
chemotherapy in patients with advanced or metastatic STSs
was initiated and completed in 2008.

Molecular Targeted Agents: Successes and Failures
of Rationally Based Approaches
The development of specific agents in histotypes has been
guided by the known molecular biology of these tumors. Not
unexpectedly, the identification of a driver—or consistent—
molecular alteration in a specific histotype has been more
efficient to identify active treatment than the sole expression
of a specific marker.

Dermatofibrosarcoma Protuberans (DFSP)
DFSP is a rare skin neoplasm with essentially a locally
malignant behavior (9). Its molecular hallmark is a translocation juxtaposing the col1A1 gene with the PDGFA gene,
resulting in a fusion protein overproduced in tumor cells
with autocrine growth activities (9). Several retrospective
and prospective studies based on the inhibitory activities
of imatinib on PDGFRA have reported on a significant
antitumor effect of imatinib in the disease in both localized
and locally advanced disease and metastatic diseases (49).
Two Phase II trials have been completed within EORTC
(62027) and SARC, and the drug is already registered in
many countries for this rare indication in which no agent
has previously demonstrated any efficacy.

Imatinib in Pigmented Villonodular
Synovitis-Tenosynovial Giant Cell Tumor
Pigmented villonodular synovitis (PVNS), also known as
tenosynovial giant cell tumor (TGCT), is a rare pathological
entity affecting the synovium in young adults. Initially
considered as an inflammatory reactive process, recent
observations have shown that this disease may actually be
a neoplastic process with specific genetic alterations and
rare metastases (50). Indeed, a specific t(1;2) translocation,
involving the collagen 6A3 gene (on 2q35) and the M-CSF
(a.k.a CSF1) gene (on 1p13), is present in a fraction of

208

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

tumor cells in PVNS/TGCT. This fusion gene expressed by
a fraction of the cells encodes for a fusion protein that
attracts nonneoplastic cells expressing M-CSFR, through a
paracrine—“landscape”—effect. PVNS/TGCT is generally
treated by surgery alone. However, relapses may occur and
reexcision may be needed with possible important functional impairment. In addition to its inhibitory activity on
bcr-abl, KIT, and PDGFRA, imatinib has recently been
reported to block M-CSFR activation at therapeutic concentration (50). These observations prompted us to evaluate
imatinib in a patient with recurrent and symptomatic
PVNS/TGCT following surgery: a complete remission was
observed in this patient, and additional studies are required
to confirm its antitumor activity (50).

cell environment and the tumor cells, though a RANKL/
RANK paracrine pathway. Very limited agents have antitumor activity in this disease. In a trial reported at ASCO
2008, denosumab, an anti-RANKL Ab showed impressive
antitumor activity, promoting metabolic response, bone
reconstruction, and reduction of the number of size of
the metastasis in 85% of patients in a small cohort of
patients (54).

Imatinib in Chordoma
Chordoma cells express PDGFR at the cell surface in an
activated phosphorylated form (55). Imatinib was tested in
this disease and was found capable of inducing prolonged
stabilization in some patients (55). A clinical trial exploring
a combination with cytotoxic (CDDP) is underway.

HER1 in Sarcomas
Both gene expression profile analysis and tissue microarrays have shown that several sarcoma histotypes, in particular synovial sarcomas and malignant peripheral nerve
sheath tumors (MPNSTs), express high levels of EGFR.
Two Phase II studies testing EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors in advanced STS, gefitinib, in synovial sarcoma, and
erlotinib in MPNST, respectively, were reported and both
showed no efficacy of the investigational drug in these
settings (51). This is a good example of a model where the
expression of the target does not imply a role in tumor
progression.

Hormonal Manipulation of Endometrial
Stromal Sarcomas
Estrogen and progesterone receptors are observed in a subset of uterine sarcoma, the low-grade endometrial stromal
sarcomas (52). These sarcomas are characterized by frequent
hormone receptor expression and a t(7;17) translocation. In
several retrospective analysis of patients with advanced
ESS treated with aromatase inhibitors (AIs) (anastrozole
and letrozole), long-lasting responses were reported (52).

IGF1R in Ewing’s Sarcomas and Other Sarcomas
Ewing’s sarcomas are characterized by fusion genes that
encode for transcription factors regulating a number of
genes; among these the IGFBP3 gene has been found
downregulated by the fusion protein. IGFBP3 regulates
the IGF1/IGF1R pathway by interacting with IGF1, and
the recombinant IGFBP3 inhibits the proliferation of ES
cells and promote apoptosis in Ewing’s sarcoma cell lines
(8). With this strong biological rationale, phase I and II
trials of IGF1R Ab are underway, and preliminary results
suggest 40% to 50% rates of tumor control in patients with
refractory diseases in very preliminary results (53).
Despite its rarity (incidence <3/1,000,000/year) several
clinical trials have been initiated with IGF1R antibodies
in this tumor.

RANK Ligand Antibody in Giant Cell Tumor
of the Bone
Giant cell tumor of the bone is a rare primary neoplastic
lesion of the bone, most often with a locoregional behavior
but occasionally causing metastases. Giant cell growth is
promoted by a complex interaction between the reactive

Molecular Targeted Agents: Empirical Approaches
Although a growing numbers of sarcomas exhibit molecular
alterations on proteins whose function can be modulated,
the majority of subsets still has not yet a druggable “driver”
molecular alteration. In these cases, targeting a biological
pathway shared by different histotypes can still be a proposed strategy. Trials exploring inhibitors of mTOR, of
VEGFR, and modulators of heat shock proteins can be
grouped within such an empirical approach.

Estrogens Antagonists and Imatinib
in Desmoids Tumors
Desmoids tumors are infiltrating tumors composed of
fibroblasts and myofibroblasts, which have a significant
potential for local and locoregional relapses but which
most often do not metastasize (56). Until recently, their
biology was largely unknown and developments of agents
have therefore followed empiric approaches or were guided
by low levels of evidence. These tumors exhibit characteristic molecular alterations on the beta catenin and APC
pathway: beta catenin mutations (18). Initially considered
as a low-grade sarcoma, a significant proportion of these
tumors may have a very prolonged indolent course, or
even spontaneous regression, resulting in very heterogeneous treatment strategies in the literature. However, a
proportion of these tumors will progress and ultimately
may lead to patient death, in particular for tumors of the
trunk (56). Several systemic treatments have a reported
antitumor activity in this disease: NSAIDS, antiestrogens,
low dose or standard dose cytotoxics, and more recently,
imatinib (56), which has demonstrated antitumor activity
in this disease with 15% response rates and a one-year PFS
of 40% and 65% in the two reported trials (57). The biological mechanisms of the antitumor activity of imatinib in
this disease remain unknown.

Inhibitors of mTOR
The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a serinetheronine kinase playing a central role in several pathways involved in cancer progression, including functions
such as survival, metabolism, proliferations, translation, ribosome biogenesis, and autophagy. Three inhibitors of mTOR
are currently in clinical development: CCI-779 (temsirolimus), RAD-001 (everolimus), and AP23573-deforolimus

Chapter 11:

(Ariad Pharmaceuticals, Los Angeles, California). The most
documented for the treatment of sarcomas is deforolimus
with the initial results of a large Phase II trial being
reported in 2006 by Chawla et al. (ASCO abstract) and
completed this year by a phase study or an oral formulation of the same agent (58). In the initial trial with an IV
formulation, the ORR was only 2.5% (5/193 evaluable
patients), but clinical benefit (i.e., CR + PR + SD by
RECIST criteria for more than four months) was observed
for 54 patients (28%), confirming again (as for trabectedin)
that objective response is probably not the most relevant
end point to identify efficient drugs in sarcomas. This molecule is now under evaluation in a Phase 3 trial testing
maintenance following response or stable disease in first
to third line of treatment.

Agents Targeting Angiogenesis
Most of the currently available treatments targeting angiogenesis block VEGF (bevacizumab, VEGF-trap) or the VEGF
receptors (tyrosine kinase inhibitors sunitinib, sorafenib).
Several antiangiogenic agents have been reported to induce
limited response rates but prolonged stabilizations beyond
the reported rate of “active agents” reported in the EORTC
database (59). Bevacizumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody to human VEGF, was combined in a Phase II trial
with doxorubicin in chemotherapy-naïve patients with
advanced sarcoma (59). Objective response rate was only
12%, close or similar to the usual doxorubicin single agent
response rate, and toxicity was found substantial since 6
of 17 patients experienced grade ≥2 cardiac toxicity.
Several small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors targeting angiogenesis are currently in clinical development,
some of them in patients with advanced STS. A Phase II
trial with VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor GW786034
(pazopanib) has completed accrual in patients with
advanced STS, stratified for histological subtypes (leiomyosarcoma, liposarcomas, synovial sarcomas, and others).
Antitumor activity was observed with a median PFS
beyond that of active agents according to the EORTC
model (60) for all subtypes but liposarcomas, with responses
in synovial sarcomas and leiomyosarcomas and four months
PFS >40% for all subgroups but LPS; some patients are still
experiencing prolonged PFS 30+ months after initiation of
the treatment (60). Similar encouraging results have been
reported with sorafenib and sunitinib in similar Phase II
trials enrolling patients in different strata according to
histotypes.

GIST AND TYROSINE KINASE INHIBITORS: A MODEL
OF TARGETED CHEMOTHERAPY FOR SOLID TUMORS
GIST is the most frequent sarcoma of the GI tract. These
tumors that derive from the precursors of the interstitial
cells of Cajal may occur anywhere in the GI tract, but most
often from the stomach and small intestine (12). Their incidence is estimated to be approximately 1.5/100,000/year
(61). Approximately 95% of GISTs are CD117/KIT positive
in immunohistochemistry (IHC). In 1998, Hirota et al. identified an activating mutation in the KIT gene, which encodes
for the stem cell factor (SCF) receptor (10), and it is now
recognized that 75% to 80% of GIST harbor a mutation of

Sarcomas

209

the KIT gene (12). These mutations are located mainly to
exons 11 and 9 (close to 2/3 and 10% respectively), mutations of exons 13, 14, and 17 being infrequent (0.5–1%
respectively) (12). More recently, a subset of GIST with no
KIT mutations was found to be driven by an activating
mutation in the gene encoding for PDGFRA (11). These are
present in 5% to 7% of advanced GIST, but may be more
frequent in localized forms, and are mutually exclusive
with KIT mutations, leaving approximately 12% to 15% of
GIST with no identified mutation. The latter are observed
particularly in pediatric forms, NF1, and Carney-associated
forms. Mutations of KIT and PDGFR have been found in
biopsies of early stage GIST, and more recently in the
incidental forms found in 30% of normal individuals in
autopsy series (12).
In 2008, surgery remains the only potentially curative
treatment for patients with localized GIST (21): optimal
surgery of a primary GIST requests complete excision of
the tumor without rupture in order to avoid seeding of
tumor cells, usually in the peritoneal cavity. Several prognostic factors have been identified in patients with localized GIST, two of them are the basis for the most common
prognostic classification: the size of the primary tumor and
the mitotic rate assessed per 50 high power fields. More
recently, the primary tumor site and possibly the nature
of mutations have also been found to influence the outcome
of these patients and will likely soon be integrated for
treatment decision purposes (62–64). In 2009, adjuvant imatinib was approved by US and EU health autorities for
GIST with a substantial risk of relapse.
Conversely, in advanced disease, surgery has no
established role yet, even though short-term remissions can
be observed following complete resection of metastases
(21,61,65). In advanced stages, imatinib mesylate (IM)
400 mg/day is therefore the standard upfront treatment
(66–69). The median time to progression under imatinib
therapy is two years, with 5% of patients exhibiting primary
resistance whereas the majority of patients will be developing secondary resistance, either early within one year or
later (66–69). At progression, imatinib 800 mg/day enables
transient tumor control in 30% to 35% of the patients with
a median PFS of four months (70). Following the report of
the meta-analysis of the two randomized studies comparing
imatinib 400 mg/day to 800 mg/day, the dose of imatinib
800 mg/day is now recognized to induce a longer PFS than
400 mg/day in patients with exon 9 mutation, and this dose
is now recommended as the standard first-line treatment
in the ESMO 2008 guideline (21,23,71). Treatment interruption in advanced setting associated with a median PFS of
6 months as demonstrated in the BFR14 trial, in which
imatinib interruption was randomized vs continuation at
1 year and 3 years (69). Even though most patients
responded again upon treatment reintroduction, the impact
of treatment interruption on OS remains unknown. In 2006,
sunitinib malate was approved for patients failing imatinib
therapy because of toxicity or disease progression (72).
These treatments enable tumor control, that is, CR-PR or
SD in 8% and 60% of patients, respectively, in imatinibresistant patients. Median PFS with sunitinib after imatinib
failure is close to six months (72). Other agents targeting
KIT and PDGFRA have shown very promising results, such
as nilotinib, which was developed as a second-line therapy
for IM-resistant chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and

210

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

seems to show a high efficiency in GISTs failing imatinib
therapy, combined with a favorable toxicity profile (49,50).
A phase I/II trial reported a CR/PR/SD rate of 65% with
a median TTP of 23 weeks in imatinib- and sunitinibresistant patients; a Phase III trial of nilotinib in imatinib
(IM)-resistant GIST has recently completed accrual.
The role of imatinib in the adjuvant setting is currently under active investigation in four trials in Europe,
United States, and Japan comparing one year adjuvant
imatinib 400 mg/day versus placebo (ACOSOG-Z9001), two
years adjuvant imatinib 400 mg/day versus no treatment
(EORTC 62024), one year adjuvant imatinib 400 mg/day
versus three years (SSG/AIO), one year adjuvant imatinib
400 mg/day versus six months (Japanese trial). These trials
investigate the role of imatinib versus placebo after complete excision in patients classified as having a larger than
3 cm tumor (ACOSOG) and in patients with GIST of the
intermediate to high risk of relapse (EORTC, SSG/AIO,
Japanese group). In the latter group, the long-term risk
of relapse is in the range of 60% to 70%. The preliminary
results of the ACOSOG trial presented at ASCO 2007 (73)
showed a dramatic reduction of the risk of relapse; whether
adjuvant imatinib prevents or delays relapse is unknown;
the impact of adjuvant treatment on the response to imatinib
at the time of metastatic relapse is neither known. Conversely, the identification of groups of patients with a >85%
risk of relapse (60) prompts the discussion of a more prolonged (five years, lifelong?) treatment with imatinib in the
adjuvant setting, given the results of the BFR14 trial.

BONE SARCOMAS
Bone sarcomas include a wide variety of histological subtypes and are 10-fold less frequent than STSs. Osteogenic
sarcomas and Ewing’s sarcomas (Ewing family of tumors,
EFTs) are the most frequent histotypes, followed by chondrosarcomas (74–77). Osteogenic sarcoma have an overall
incidence of two to three new cases/1,000,000/year and
occur mostly between the ages of 10 and 30. They occur
most often in the metaphysis of a long bones, in the lower
femur or upper tibia; iliac bone, vertebrae, or craniofacial
bones lesions are observed most often in older adults
patients (76). EFT of the bone is the not only the second
most common primary malignant bone cancer in children
and adolescents, but it is also seen in adults up to 70. In all,
20% of patients have EFT of the pelvic bones, 50% show
extremity tumors; 20% originate from soft tissues, in particular in adults. Chondrosarcomas represent the third
group of malignant bone tumors and are observed most
often in adults.

Diagnosis
Bone tumors are revealed most often by pain and swelling,
with bone radiographs showing highly suspect osteolytic
lesions, sometimes with extraosseous bone formation. At
this stage, referral to an expert center is highly advised.
The primary tumor must be evaluated by plain radiographs in two planes. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
for long bones with CT scans for axial and craniofacial
lesions should be performed before biopsy when the diagnosis is suspected. The whole involved bone as well as

the adjacent joints must be analyzed on the MRI and/or
CT scan.
Biopsy is mandatory for definitive diagnosis and
should be performed only after a multidisciplinary assessment of the lesion, with the pathologist, the surgeon, and
the radiologist. Inappropriate biopsies reduce the possibilities for limb salvage and cure. By definition, the malignant
cell population of an osteogenic sarcoma produces osteoïd
tissue. In more than 80% of the cases, osteogenic sarcoma
are high-grade malignancies; different histological subtypes
are distinguished (osteoblastic, chondroblastic, and fibroblastic) but these are currently managed similarly. Conversely, low-grade osteosarcomas, in particular periosteal,
parosteal, or intramedullary low-grade osteosarcomas,
have a distinct prognosis and are generally treated without
systemic treatment (76). EFTs are small, blue round-cell
tumors, expressing CD99 (MIC2)-positive, and all are highgrade malignancies. All EFTs, from bone or from the soft
tissues and organs, share a common gene rearrangement
involving the EWS gene on chromosome 22. In most cases,
a reciprocal translocation t(11;22)(q24;q12) is found, but
t(21;22)(q22;q12) and others may also occur (78).
Systemic staging should include chest X-rays, a CT
scan of the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis and a radionuclide
bone scan; in case of secondary bone lesions, X-rays, MRI,
or CT scans of affected areas are recommended. In EFTs,
bone marrow aspirates and biopsies taken at sites distant
from the primary tumor are recommended.
There are no specific tumor markers for bone sarcoma [alkaline phosphatase (AP) and LDH are nonspecific]. A biological evaluation of liver and renal function,
blood cell count, evaluation of LVEF using either radionuclide ventriculography or echocardiography is standard
practice. Collection and storage of sperm before the initiation of treatment is recommended for male patients of
reproductive age.

Treatment
Osteogenic Sarcomas
Patients with osteogenic sarcoma should be treated in
specialized centers where therapy is usually given within
prospective multi-institutional trials. Curative treatment
for high-grade osteogenic sarcoma consists of surgery and
chemotherapy.
Two randomized trials have demonstrated that
adjuvant and/or neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy of
high-grade osteosarcoma increases disease-free survival
probabilities from only 10% to 20% to more than 50%
(76,77). Adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy have been
reported to be similarly effective, in a small size randomized trial (79,80), as well as in the different large prospective trials reported to date (78,81,82). The goal of surgery
is the complete removal of the tumor (including the biopsy
tract) with the aim to preserve limb function. Radiotherapy
has a limited role and is generally reserved for inoperable
situations and for specific sites such as the craniofacial
sites, which are generally associated with a higher risk of
locoregional relapses (83).
Active cytotoxic agents in osteogenic sarcomas include
doxorubicin, cisplatin, ifosfamide, and high-dose methotrexate with leucovorin rescue for children and adolescents
(79–85). The optimal combination is currently investigated in

Chapter 11:

Sarcomas

211

multicentric trials. Dose intensification of dose dense regimens with hematopoietic growth factors have so far failed
to improve survival (82). Recently, muramyl tripeptide
(MTPPE) added to chemotherapy was found to yield an
improved OS in a single randomized trial (86). Histological
response to preoperative chemotherapy is a major prognostic information, along with proximal extremity or axial
tumor site, large tumor volume, elevated serum ALP or
LDH, and foremost detectable primary metastases (85). It is
however not demonstrated whether altering postoperative
chemotherapy in poor responders improves outcomes. Lowgrade central and parosteal osteogenic sarcoma are treated
by surgery only. Importantly, the conclusions obtained from
multidisciplinary treatment principles were generated in
children and young adults with high-grade central osteogenic sarcoma. The applicability of these observations for
extraosseous osteogenic sarcoma is unknown and these are
often managed like STSs without adjuvant or neoadjuvant
chemotherapy if the primary tumor is deemed resectable.
In this case, adjuvant radiotherapy may be proposed.
Similarly, the role of chemotherapy has not been defined
for craniofacial osteosarcoma.
A curative approach should also be undertaken for
primary metastatic osteogenic sarcoma as for localized
disease; surgical removal of all metastatic lesions must
however be performed. Twenty percent of all patients with
osteogenic sarcoma with lung metastasis and close to 30%
of those who achieve a complete surgical remission become
long-term survivors (87). The prognosis is much less favorable for patients with bone metastasis. In the case of
recurrence, the prognosis is poor with long-term survival
under 20%. Patients with recurrent osteogenic sarcoma to
the lung with completely potentially resectable disease
should be considered as curable, and complete removal of
all metastases should be attempted whenever possible.
There is no standard regimen for the treatment of relapsing osteosarcoma, even though the addition of chemotherapy was associated with an improved outcome in
some studies (88).

ment of metastases, with surgery and/or radiotherapy (78).
Two groups of patients should be distinguished: those with
lung only metastases and those with bone or bone marrow
metastases, with a much worse prognosis. The EuroEwing
trial is currently assessing the value of more intensive,
high-dose chemotherapy approaches, followed by autologous stem cell rescue in the first group of patients. Patients
with bone or bone marrow metastases are deemed incurable (93). Chemotherapy regimens in relapsing EFT are not
standardized and are commonly based on topoisomerase
inhibitors (topotecan or irinotecan) (94). As mentioned
above, several trials are also investigating the role of antiIGF1R antibody treatment in second or more line settings
with encouraging preliminary results.

Ewing Family of Tumors

4.

In EFT, multidisciplinary treatments including combination
chemotherapy and surgery and/or radiotherapy also represent the standard of care (78). The ongoing clinical trials
include most often six cycles of initial chemotherapy after
biopsy, followed by local therapy and another six to eight
cycles of chemotherapy usually applied at three-week
intervals. The most active agents are cyclophosphamide,
ifosfamide, vincristine, dactinomycin, and etoposide. Most
regimens include four or more of these agents, with at least
one alkylating agent (78,89–91). Recently a dose dense regimen given at two weeks intervals was reported to improve
OS. Following neoadjuvant treatment, complete surgery,
where feasible, is regarded as the best modality for achieving local control. Radiotherapy should be applied if radical
surgery is impossible, and in the adjuvant setting if complete histological response is not achieved. Radiotherapy
is applied at doses of 40 to 45 Gy for microscopic residues
and 50 to 60 Gy for macroscopic disease with 1.8 to 2 Gy
fractions (92).
Patients with metastatic EFT receive the same treatment as for localized disease with appropriate local treat-

CONCLUSIONS
Sarcomas represent a family of cancers with heterogeneous
histological and molecular patterns. Multidisciplinary
management, in particular proper diagnostic procedures,
surgery by an expert physician, and adequate systemic
treatments are essential from the very first steps of the
management of patients. Advances in the molecular characterization of these tumors have led to the introduction
of effective targeted treatment strategies, as shown in GIST
using imatinib. Other examples of targeted treatment on
driver mutations in connective tissue tumors are now being
developed.

REFERENCES
1.
2.

3.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.
10.

Clark MA, Fisher C, Judson I et al. Soft-tissue sarcomas in
adults. N Engl J Med 2005; 353: 701–11.
Toro JR, Travis LB, Wu HJ et al. Incidence patterns of
soft tissue sarcomas, regardless of primary site, in the surveillance, epidemiology and end results program, 1978–2001:
An analysis of 26,758 cases. Int J Cancer 2006; 119: 2922–30.
Fletcher CD. The evolving classification of soft tissue
tumours: an update based on the new WHO classification.
Histopathology 2006; 48: 3–12.
Helman LJ, Meltzer P. Mechanisms of sarcoma development.
Nat Rev Cancer 2003; 3: 685–94.
Mitelman F, Johansson B, Mertens F. The impact of translocations and gene fusions on cancer causation. Nat Rev Cancer
2007; 7: 233–45.
Coindre JM, Terrier P, Bui NB et al. Prognostic factors in
adult patients with locally controlled soft tissue sarcoma. A
study of 546 patients from the French Federation of Cancer
Centers Sarcoma Group. J Clin Oncol 1996; 14: 869–77.
Coindre JM, Terrier P, Guillou L et al. Predictive value of
grade for metastasis development in the main histologic
types of adult soft tissue sarcomas: a study of 1240 patients
from the French Federation of Cancer Centers Sarcoma
Group. Cancer 2001; 91: 1914–26.
Prieur A, Tirode F, Cohen P et al. EWS/FLI-1 silencing and
gene profiling of Ewing cells reveal downstream oncogenic
pathways and a crucial role for repression of insulin-like
growth factor binding protein 3. Mol Cell Biol 2004; 24:
7275–83.
McArthur G. Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans: recent clinical
progress. Ann Surg Oncol 2007; 14: 2876–86.
Hirota S, Isozaki K, Moriyama Y et al. Gain-of-function
mutations of c-kit in human gastrointestinal stromal tumors.
Science 1998; 279: 577–80.

212
11.

12.
13.

14.
15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.
25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
Heinrich MC, Corless CL, Duensing A et al. PDGFRA activating mutations in gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Science
2003; 299: 708–10.
Corless CL, Fletcher JA, Heinrich MC. Biology of gastrointestinal stromal tumors. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 3813–25.
Biegel JA, Rousseau-Merck MF, Fiette L et al. Chromosome
mechanisms and INI1 inactivation in human and mouse
rhabdoid tumors. Cancer Genet Cytogenet 2005; 157:
127–33.
Korf BR. Diagnosis and management of neurofibromatosis
type 1. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep 2001; 1: 162–7.
Sirvent N, Coindre JM, Maire G et al. Detection of MDM2CDK4 amplification by fluorescence in situ hybridization in
200 paraffin-embedded tumor samples: utility in diagnosing
adipocytic lesions and comparison with immunohistochemistry and real-time PCR. Am J Surg Pathol 2007; 31:
1476–89.
Italiano A, Cardot N, Dupré F et al. Gains and complex rearrangements of the 12q13-15 chromosomal region in ordinary
lipomas: the “missing link” between lipomas and liposarcomas?
Int J Cancer 2007; 121: 308–15.
Idbaih A, Coindre JM, Derré J et al. Myxoid malignant fibrous
histiocytoma and pleomorphic liposarcoma share very similar
genomic imbalances. Lab Invest 2005; 85: 176–81.
Kotiligam D, Lazar AJ, Pollock RE et al. Desmoid tumor: a
disease opportune for molecular insights. Histol Histopathol
2008; 23: 117–26.
Casali PG, Jost L, Sleijfer S et al. ESMO Guidelines Working
Group. Soft tissue sarcomas: ESMO clinical recommendations
for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol 2008;
19(Suppl 2): ii89–93.
Ray-Coquard I, Thiesse P, Ranchere-Vince D et al. Conformity
to clinical practice guidelines, multidisciplinary management
and outcome of treatment for soft tissue sarcomas. Ann Oncol
2004; 15: 307–15.
Casali PG, Jost L, Reichardt P et al. ESMO Guidelines Working
Group. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors: ESMO clinical recommendations for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann
Oncol 2008; 19(Suppl 2): ii35–8.
Ray-Coquard I, Ranchere-Vince D, Thiesse P et al. Evaluation
of core needle biopsy as a substitute to open biopsy in
the diagnosis of soft-tissue masses. Eur J Cancer 2003; 39:
2021–5.
Demetri GD, Benjamin RS, Blanke CD et al. NCCN Task
Force. NCCN Task Force report: management of patients
with gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST)—update of the
NCCN clinical practice guidelines. J Natl Compr Canc Netw
2007; 5(Suppl 2): S1–29, quiz S30.
Yang JC, Rosenberg SA. Surgery for adult patients with soft
tissue sarcomas. Semin Oncol 1989; 16: 289–96.
Hohenberger P, Wysocki WM. Neoadjuvant treatment of
locally advanced soft tissue sarcoma of the limbs: which
treatment to choose? Oncologist 2008; 13: 175–86.
Issels RD, Lindner LH, Wust P et al. Regional hyperthermia
(RHT) improves response and survival when combined with
systemic chemotherapy in the management of locally advanced,
high grade soft tissue sarcomas (STS) of the extremities, the
body wall and the abdomen: a phase III randomised pros.
J Clin Oncol (ASCO Annual Meeting Proceedings Part I) 2007;
25(18S June 20 Suppl): 10009.
Grünhagen DJ, de Wilt JH, ten Hagen TL et al. Technology
insight: utility of TNF-alpha-based isolated limb perfusion to
avoid amputation of irresectable tumors of the extremities.
Nat Clin Pract Oncol 2006; 3: 94–103.
Bonvalot S, Laplanche A, Lejeune F et al. Limb salvage with
isolated perfusion for soft tissue sarcoma: could less TNFalpha be better? Ann Oncol 2005; 16: 1061–8.
Pisters PW, Harrison LB, Woodruff JM et al. A prospective
randomized trial of adjuvant brachytherapy in the manage-

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

ment of low-grade soft tissue sarcomas of the extremity and
superficial trunk. J Clin Oncol 1994; 12: 1150–5.
Yang JC, Chang AE, Baker AR et al. Randomized prospective
study of the benefit of adjuvant radiation therapy in the
treatment of soft tissue sarcomas of the extremity. J Clin
Oncol 1998; 16: 197–203.
O’Sullivan B, Davis AM, Turcotte R et al. Preoperative versus
postoperative radiotherapy in soft-tissue sarcoma of the
limbs: a randomised trial. Lancet 2002; 359: 2235–41.
Kamada T, Tsujii H, Tsuji H et al. Working Group for the
Bone and Soft Tissue Sarcomas. Efficacy and safety of carbon
ion radiotherapy in bone and soft tissue sarcomas. J Clin
Oncol 2002; 20: 4466–71.
Bramwell VH, Anderson D, Charette ML. Doxorubicin-based
chemotherapy for the palliative treatment of adult patients
with locally advanced or metastatic soft-tissue sarcoma: a
meta-analysis and clinical practice guideline. Sarcoma 2000;
4: 103–12.
Sarcoma Meta-analysis Collaboration. Adjuvant chemotherapy for localize resectable soft-tissue sarcoma of adults:
meta-analysis of individual data. Lancet 1997; 350: 1647–54.
Frustaci S, Gherlinzoni F, De PA et al. Adjuvant chemotherapy for adult soft tissue sarcomas of the extremities and
girdles: results of the Italian randomized cooperative trial.
J Clin Oncol 2001; 19: 1238–47.
Woll PJ, van Glabbeke M, Hohenberger P et al. Adjuvant
chemotherapy with doxorubicin and ifosfamide in resected
soft tissue sarcoma: interim analysis of a randomized phase
III trial. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2007: abstract 10008.
Gortzak E, Azzarelli A, Buesa J et al. E.O.R.T.C. Soft Tissue
Bone Sarcoma Group and the National Cancer Institute of
Canada Clinical Trials Group/Canadian Sarcoma Group. A
randomised phase II study on neo-adjuvant chemotherapy
for “high-risk” adult soft-tissue sarcoma. Eur J Cancer 2001;
37: 1096–103.
Van Glabekke M, van Oosterom AT, Oosterhuis JW et al.
Prognostic factors for the outcome of chemotherapy in
advanced soft tissue sarcoma: an analysis of 2,185 patients
treated with anthracycline-containing first-line regimens—a
European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer
Soft Tissue and Bone Sarcoma Group Study. J Clin Oncol
1999; 17: 150–7.
Blay JY, van Glabbeke M, Verweij J et al. Advanced softtissue sarcoma: a disease that is potentially curable for a
subset of patients treated with chemotherapy. Eur J Cancer
2003; 39: 64–9.
Bay JO, Ray-Coquard I, Fayette J et al. Docetaxel and gemcitabine combination in 133 advanced soft-tissue sarcomas: a
retrospective analysis. Int J Cancer 2006; 119: 706–11.
Maki RG, Wathen JK, Patel SR et al. Randomized phase II
study of gemcitabine and docetaxel compared with gemcitabine alone in patients with metastatic soft tissue sarcomas:
results of sarcoma alliance for research through collaboration
study 002. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 2755–63.
Duffaud F, Bui BN, Penel N et al. A FNCLCC French Sarcoma
Group—GETO multicenter randomized phase II study of
gemcitabine (G) versus gemcitabine and docetaxel (G+D) in
patients with metastatic or relapsed leiomyosarcoma (LMS).
Clin Oncol 2008; 26(May 20 suppl): abstract 10511.
Fata F, O’Reilly E, Ilson D et al. Paclitaxel in the treatment
of patients with angiosarcoma of the scalp or face. Cancer
1999; 86: 2034–7.
Penel N et al. Weekly paclitaxel for metastatic or unresectable
angiosarcoma. Results of a FNCLCC—French Sarcoma Group
Phase II trial, the ANGIOTAX Study. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26:
5269–74.
Le Cesne A, Blay JY, Judson I et al. Phase II study of ET-743 in
advanced soft tissue sarcomas: a European Organisation for
the Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Soft Tissue

Chapter 11:

46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

53.

54.

55.
56.

57.

58.
59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

and Bone Sarcoma Group Trial. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23:
576–84.
Grosso F, Jones RL, Demetri GD et al. Efficacy of trabectedin
(ecteinascidin-743) in advanced pretreated myxoid liposarcomas: a retrospective study. Lancet Oncol 2007; 8: 595–602.
Samuels BL, Rushing D, Chawla SP et al. Randomized phase
II study of trabectedin (ET-743) given by two different dosing
schedules in patients (pts) with leiomyosarcomas (LMS) or
liposarcomas (LPS) refractory to conventional doxorubicin
and ifosfamide chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol (ASCO Meeting
Abstracts) 2004; 22: 9000.
Leahy M, Ray-Coquard I, Verweij J et al. Brostallicin, an agent
with potential activity in metastatic soft tissue sarcoma: a
phase II study from the EORTC soft tissue and bone sarcoma
group. Eur J Cancer 2007; 43: 308–15.
Maki RG, Awan RA, Dixon RH et al. Differential sensitivity to
imatinib of 2 patients with metastatic sarcoma arising from dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans. Int J Cancer 2002; 100: 623–6.
Blay JY, El Sayadi H, Thiesse P et al. Complete response
to imatinib in relapsing pigmented villonodular synovitis/
tenosynovial giant cell tumor (PVNS/TGCT). Ann Oncol
2008; 19: 821–2.
Blay J, Le Cesne A, Whelan J et al. Gefitinib in second line
treatment of metastatic or locally advanced synovial sarcoma
expressing HER1: a phase II trial of EORTC Soft Tissue and
Bone Sarcoma Group. J Clin Oncol (2006 ASCO Annual Meeting Proceedings Part I) 2006; 24(18S June 20 Suppl): 9517.
Pink D, Lindner T, Mrozek A et al. Harm or benefit of
hormonal treatment in metastatic low-grade endometrial
stromal sarcoma: single center experience with 10 cases and
review of the literature. Gynecol Oncol 2006; 101: 464–9.
Hidalgo M, Tirado Gomez M, Lewis N et al. A phase I study
of MK-0646, a humanized monoclonal antibody against the
insulin-like growth factor receptor type 1 (IGF1R) in advanced
solid tumor patients in a q2 wk schedule. J Clin Oncol 2008;
26(May 20 suppl): abstract 3520.
Thomas D, Chawla SP, Skubitz K et al. Denosumab treatment of
giant cell tumor of bone: Interim analysis of an open-label phase
II study. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26(May 20 suppl): abstract 10500.
Casali PG, Stacchiotti S, Sangalli C et al. Chordoma. Curr
Opin Oncol 2007; 19: 367–70.
Janinis J, Patriki M, Vini L et al. The pharmacological treatment of aggressive fibromatosis: a systematic review. Ann
Oncol 2003; 14: 181–90.
Heinrich MC, McArthur GA, Demetri GD et al. Clinical and
molecular studies of the effect of imatinib on advanced
aggressive fibromatosis (desmoid tumor). J Clin Oncol 2006;
24: 1195–203.
Sabatini DM. mTOR and cancer: insights into a complex
relationship. Nat Rev Cancer 2006; 6: 729–34.
D’Adamo DR, Anderson SE, Albritton K et al. Phase II study
of doxorubicin and bevacizumab for patients with metastatic
soft-tissue sarcomas. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 7135–42.
Sleijfer S, le Cesne A, Scurr M et al. Phase II study of
pazopanib (GW786034) in patients (pts) with relapsed or
refractory soft tissue sarcoma (STS): EORTC 62043. J Clin
Oncol 2007; 25: 552s, abstract 10031.
Nilsson B, Bumming P, Meis-Kindblom JM et al. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors: the incidence, prevalence, clinical
course, and prognostication in the preimatinib mesylate
era—a population-based study in western Sweden. Cancer
2005; 103: 821–9.
Blay JY, Bonvalot S, Casali P et al. Consensus meeting for
the management of gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Report
of the GIST consensus conference of 20-21 March 2004, under
the auspices of ESMO. Ann Oncol 2005; 16: 566–78.
Fletcher CD, Berman JJ, Corless C et al. Diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors: a consensus approach. Hum Pathol
2002; 33: 459–65.

Sarcomas

213

64. Miettinen M, Lasota J. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors:
pathology and prognosis at different sites. Semin Diagn
Pathol 2006; 23: 70–83.
65. Raut CP, Posner M, Desai J et al. Surgical management of
advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors after treatment
with targeted systemic therapy using kinase inhibitors. J Clin
Oncol 2006; 24: 2325–31.
66. Demetri GD, von MM, Blanke CD et al. Efficacy and safety
of imatinib mesylate in advanced gastrointestinal stromal
tumors. N Engl J Med 2002; 347: 472–80.
67. Verweij J, Casali PG, Zalcberg J et al. Progression-free
survival in gastrointestinal stromal tumours with high-dose
imatinib: randomised trial. Lancet 2004; 364: 1127–34.
68. Blanke CD, Rankin C, Demetri GD et al. Phase III randomized, intergroup trial assessing imatinib mesylate at two dose
levels in patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors expressing the kit receptor tyrosine
kinase: S0033. Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 626–32.
69. Blay JY, Le Cesne A, Ray-Coquard I et al. Prospective
multicentric randomized phase III study of imatinib in patients
with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors comparing
interruption versus continuation of treatment beyond 1 year:
the French Sarcoma Group. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 1107–13.
70. Zalcberg JR, Verweij J, Casali PG et al. Outcome of patients
with advanced gastro-intestinal stromal tumours crossing
over to a daily imatinib dose of 800 mg after progression on
400 mg. Eur J Cancer 2005; 41: 1751–7.
71. Debiec-Rychter M, Dumez H, Judson I et al. Use of c-KIT/
PDGFRA mutational analysis to predict the clinical response
to imatinib in 575 patients with advanced gastrointestinal
stromal tumours entered on phase I and II studies of the
EORTC Soft Tissue and Bone Sarcoma Group. Eur J Cancer
2004; 40: 689–95.
72. Demetri GD, van Oosterom AT, Garrett CR et al. Efficacy
and safety of sunitinib in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumour after failure of imatinib: a randomised
controlled trial. Lancet 2006; 368: 1329–38.
73. DeMatteo R, Owzar K, Maki R et al. the American College
of Surgeons Oncology Group (ACOSOG) Intergroup Adjuvant GIST Study Team. Adjuvant imatinib mesylate after
resection of localised, primary gastrointestinal stromal
tumour: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Lancet 2009; 373: 1097–104.
74. Arndt CA, Crist WM. Common musculoskeletal tumors of
childhood and adolescence. N Engl J Med 1999; 341: 342–52.
75. Fletcher CDM, Unni KK, Mertens F, eds. WHO Classification
of Tumours. Pathology and Genetics of Tumours of Soft
Tissue and Bone. Lyon: IARC Press, 2002.
76. Link MP, Goorin AM, Miser AW et al. The effect of adjuvant
chemotherapy on relapse-free survival in patients with osteosarcoma of the extremity. N Engl J Med 1986; 314: 1600–6.
77. Eilber F, Giuliano A, Eckardt J et al. Adjuvant chemotherapy
for osteosarcoma: a randomized prospective trial. J Clin
Oncol 1987; 5: 21–6.
78. Bernstein M, Kovar H, Paulussen M et al. Ewing’s sarcoma
family of tumors: current management. Oncologist 2006; 11:
503–19.
79. Goorin AM, Schwartzentruber DJ, Devidas M et al. Presurgical chemotherapy compared with immediate surgery and
adjuvant chemotherapy for nonmetastatic osteosarcoma:
Pediatric Oncology Group Study POG-8651. J Clin Oncol
2003; 21: 1574–80.
80. Bramwell VH, Burgers M, Sneath R et al. A comparison of
two short intensive adjuvant chemotherapy regimens in
operable osteosarcoma of limbs in children and young
adults: the first study of the European Osteosarcoma Intergroup. J Clin Oncol 1992; 10: 1579–91.
81. Souhami RL, Craft AW, Van der Eijken JW et al. Randomised trial of two regimens of chemotherapy in operable

214

82.

83.
84.
85.

86.

87.

88.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
osteosarcoma: a study of the European Osteosarcoma Intergroup. Lancet 1997; 350: 911–17.
Lewis IJ, Nooij MA, Whelan J et al. Improvement in histologic
response but not survival in osteosarcoma patients treated
with intensified chemotherapy: a randomized phase III trial
of the European Osteosarcoma Intergroup. J Natl Cancer Inst
2007; 99: 112–28.
Carrle D, Bielack SS. Current strategies of chemotherapy in
osteosarcoma. Int Orthop 2006; 30: 445–51.
Grimer RJ, Cannon SR, Taminiau AM et al. Osteosarcoma
over the age of forty. Eur J Cancer 2003; 39: 157–63.
Bielack SS, Kempf-Bielack B, Delling G et al. Prognostic
factors in high-grade osteosarcoma of the extremities or
trunk: an analysis of 1,702 patients treated on neoadjuvant
cooperative osteosarcoma study group protocols. J Clin Oncol
2002; 20: 776–90.
Meyers PA, Schwartz CL, Krailo MD et al. Osteosarcoma: the
addition of muramyl tripeptide to chemotherapy improves
overall survival—a report from the Children’s Oncology
Group. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 633–8.
Ferrari S, Briccoli A, Mercuri M et al. Post-relapse survival
in osteosarcoma of the extremities: prognostic factors for
long-term survival. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 710–15.
Kempf-Bielack B, Bielack SS, Jürgens H et al. Osteosarcoma
relapse after combined modality therapy: an analysis of

89.

90.

91.

92.

93.

94.

unselected patients in the Cooperative Osteosarcoma Study
Group (COSS). J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 559–68.
Nesbit ME Jr, Gehan EA, Burgert EO et al. Multimodal therapy for the management of primary, nonmetastatic Ewing’s
sarcoma of bone: a long-term follow-up of the First Intergroup study. J Clin Oncol 1990; 8: 1664–74.
Burgert EO Jr, Nesbit ME, Garnsey LA et al. Multimodal
therapy for the management of nonpelvic, localized Ewing’s
sarcoma of bone: intergroup study IESS-II. J Clin Oncol 1990;
8: 1514–24.
Grier HE, Krailo MD, Tarbell NJ et al. Addition of ifosfamide
and etoposide to standard chemotherapy for Ewing’s sarcoma and primitive neuroectodermal tumor of bone. N Engl
J Med 2003; 348: 694–701.
Schuck A, Ahrens S, Paulussen M et al. Local therapy in
localized Ewing tumors: results of 1058 patients treated in
the CESS 81, CESS 86, and EICESS 92 trials. Int J Radiat Oncol
Biol Phys 2003: 55: 168–77.
Paulussen M, Ahrens S, Craft AW. Ewing’s tumors with
primary lung metastases. Survival analysis of 114 (European
Intergroup) Cooperative Ewing’s Sarcoma Study patients.
J Clin Oncol 1998; 16: 3044–52.
Wagner LM, McAllister N, Goldsby RE et al. Temozolomide
and intravenous irinotecan for treatment of advanced Ewing
Sarcoma. Pediatr Blood Cancer 2007; 48: 132–9.

12
1
Leukemias
Guido Marcucci, Meir Wetzler, John C. Byrd, Krzysztof Mrózek, and Clara D. Bloomfield

lymphoproliferative disorders and auto-immune diseases
(10,11). Patients with familial CLL do not seem to be genetically or clinically different from individuals with sporadic
CLL. To date, only a single germline mutation in the DAPK
gene has been convincingly shown to be related to familial
predisposition in a single CLL family (12).
Exposure to chemicals including benzene, petroleum
products, herbicides, pesticides, and tobacco smoking is
associated with the risk of developing AML (13,14), whereas
CLL is recognized as a service-related illness among Vietnam
War veterans who were exposed to Agent Orange. Notably,
the most common source of benzene exposure is cigarette
smoking; smoking has been associated with 1.2 to 2.3 times
increase in the incidence of AML (1,14).
Up to 10% of patients exposed to chemotherapy
eventually develop therapy-associated AML (15). Alkylating
agent–associated leukemias occur on average four to six
years after exposure and present commonly with monosomies or deletions of the long arms of chromosomes 5 or 7.
Topoisomerase II inhibitor–associated leukemias occur one
to three years after exposure, and affected individuals often
harbor balanced translocations, frequently involving band
11q23/MLL.
Warfare or occupational exposure to ionizing radiation predisposes to AML and ALL; CLL is the only leukemia
type whose incidence is not increased following exposure
to radiation. The risk of developing AML after therapeutic
radiation may increase following exposure to alkylating
agents (16,17).

Leukemias are malignant hematopoietic disorders characterized by increased proliferation, extended survival, and/
or disruption of differentiation of hematopoietic progenitors that result in clonal expansion of leukemic cells in the
bone marrow, blood, or other tissues. The most common
types of leukemia are acute myeloid leukemia (AML),
acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), chronic myelogenous
leukemia (CML), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL),
which differ with regard to the incidence, clinical presentation, disease course, and prognosis, as well as the
underlying biology and cytogenetic and molecular genetic
alterations (1–4).

INCIDENCE AND ETIOLOGY
The incidence and median age of patients at diagnosis of
the four major leukemia types in the United States are
presented in Table 12.1 (5). Although AML, CML, and CLL
are predominantly adult diseases, with median age at presentation >65 years, most patients with ALL are children
and adolescents, with median age at diagnosis of 13 years
and 61% of the patients being diagnosed under the age of
20. For all leukemia types, the age-adjusted incidence is
higher in men than in women, with the greatest difference
in CLL (5.6 vs. 2.8/100,000/year) and the smallest in ALL
(1.8 vs. 1.4/100,000/year). With the exception of ALL, the
incidence of leukemias increases with age.
The etiology of leukemia is unknown in most cases.
Risk factors for developing leukemia include heredity,
radiation, chemical exposure, and chemotherapeutic drugs.
The risk of developing acute leukemia (both ALL and AML)
is increased in patients with constitutional chromosome
aneuploidies such as +21 in Down and XXY in Klinefelter
syndromes, and inherited diseases with excessive chromatin fragility, e.g., Bloom syndrome and ataxia telangiectasia, as well as neurofibromatosis and Schwachman–Diamond
syndrome. Syndromes associated with particular types of
leukemia include Fanconi anemia and Kostmann syndrome
associated with AML and Langerhans cell histiocytosis with
ALL (6). Germline mutations of the CEBPA and RUNX1
genes have also been shown to predispose the development
of AML (7).
Large case–control studies showed that the risk ratio
for first-degree relatives of CLL patients to have CLL was
higher than for that for most other cancers (8). Approximately 8% to 10% of CLL patients have a first- or seconddegree relative with CLL (9), and relatives of patients
with CLL also seem to have a higher frequency of other

ACUTE MYELOID LEUKEMIA
AML is currently categorized according to the World Health
Organization classification, which uses the cutoff of ≥20%
blasts for diagnosis (18). In this classification (Table 12.2),
AMLs with certain recurrent cytogenetic aberrations are recognized as distinct subsets. In patients with t(8;21)(q22;q22),
inv(16)(p13q22) or t(16;16)(p13;q22), or t(15;17)(q22;q12),
the diagnosis of AML is made even with <20% marrow
blasts. Characteristic morphologic findings such as the
association of t(15;17) with increased promyeloblasts and
inv(16)/t(16;16) with dysplastic eosinophils facilitate the
recognition of these entities. In the recently updated 2008
classification, AMLs with certain submicroscopic genetic
aberrations (i.e., CEBPA or NPM1 mutations) have been recognized as new provisional entities (Table 12.2). Other AMLs
are grouped based on myelodysplasia-related changes,
receipt of prior chemotherapy or radiotherapy, and the
215

216

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 12.1 The Incidence and Median Patient Age at Diagnosis
of the Four Major Leukemia Categories in the United States in
2001–2005
Type of
leukemia

Median age at
diagnosis (years)

Incidencea
(M/F)

Estimated number of
cases in 2008 (M/F)

67
13
66
72

3.6 (4.5/2.9)
1.6 (1.8/1.4)
1.5 (1.9/1.1)
4.0 (5.6/2.8)

13,290 (7200/6090)
5,430 (3220/2210)
4,830 (2,800/2,030)
15,110 (8750/6360)

AML
ALL
CML
CLL
a

Age-adjusted incidence rate per 100,000 men and women per year.
Abbreviations: M, males; F, females.
Source: From Ref. 5.

Table 12.2

World Health Organization Classification of AML

AML with recurrent genetic abnormalities
AML with t(8;21)(q22;q22); RUNX1-RUNX1T1
AML with inv(16)(pl3.1q22) or t(16;16)(p13.1;q22); CBFB-MYH11
Acute promyelocytic leukemia with t(15;17)(q22;q12); PML-RARA
AML with t(9;11)(p22;q23); MLLT3-MLL
AML with t(6;9)(p23;q34); DEK-NUP214
AML with inv(3)(q21q26.2) or t(3;3)(q21;q26.2); RPN1-EVI1
AML (megakaryoblastic) with t(1;22)(p13;q13); RBM15-MKL1
AML with mutated NPM1
AML with mutated CEBPA
AML with myelodysplasia-related changes
Therapy-related myeloid neoplasms
AML not otherwise specified
AML with minimal differentiation
AML without maturation
AML with maturation
Acute myelomonocytic leukemia
Acute monoblastic and monocytic leukemia
Acute erythroid leukemia
Acute megakaryoblastic leukemia
Acute basophilic leukemia
Acute panmyelosis with myelofibrosis
Myeloid sarcoma
Myeloid proliferations related to Down syndrome
Transient abnormal myelopoiesis
Myeloid leukemia associated with Down syndrome
Source: From Ref. 18.

presence of myeloid sarcomas or Down syndrome. On the
basis of clinical history, AML with multilineage dysplasia
is subdivided into specific types with or without prior
myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). The remaining cases
are classified based on morphology as AML not otherwise
specified (18).

Clinical Presentation
Symptoms
At diagnosis, nearly half the patients report fatigue or
weakness, anorexia, and weight loss. Patients often present
with fever with or without an identifiable infection and
symptoms or signs of abnormal hemostasis (bleeding, easy
bruising) due to neutropenia and thrombocytopenia, respectively, from abnormal hematopoiesis. On occasion, bone pain,
cough, headache, or diaphoresis may be present at diagnosis. Patients may rarely have symptomatic mass lesions
located in the soft tissues, cranial or spinal dura, or other

organs. These masses, called myeloid sarcoma or chloroma,
represent tumor growth of leukemic cells, and may present
with or without marrow involvement. Although the initial
approach to these manifestations may include local radiation therapy, systemic chemotherapy is required because
most patients with myeloid sarcoma and no evidence of
leukemia eventually develop marrow and blood involvement. This rare presentation is more common in patients
with t(8;21).

Physical Findings
On physical examination, fever, splenomegaly, hepatomegaly, lymphadenopathy, sternal tenderness, and evidence
of infection and hemorrhage are often found. Significant
gastrointestinal bleeding and intrapulmonary and/or
intracranial hemorrhages can occur because of disseminated intravascular coagulation, which most often associates with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), monocytic
AML, or extreme degrees of leukocytosis. Infiltration of the
gingivae, skin, soft tissues, or the meninges with leukemic
blasts at diagnosis is characteristic of the monocytic subtypes and those with chromosomal abnormalities involving
11q23/MLL.

Hematologic Findings
AML is usually suspected from the study of the blood
smear and confirmed with the examination of a marrow
aspirate, which shows hypercellularity in most cases. Blast
immunophenotyping shows surface antigens associated
with myeloid differentiation (e.g., CD33, CD13). Laboratory
evaluation often reveals normochromic normocytic anemia
due to erythropoiesis failure or active bleeding because of
concurrent thrombocytopenia. The median leukocyte count
at presentation is about 15,000/μl. Between 25% and 40%
of patients have counts <5000/μl, and 20% have counts
>100,000/μl. Fewer than 5% have no detectable leukemic
cells in the blood. Neutrophils, if present, may be functionally impaired and therefore fever should be treated aggressively with broad-spectrum antibacterial and antifungal
drugs. Patients with high numbers of circulating blasts
may abruptly develop signs of leukostasis (headache, confusion, and dyspnea), which requires immediate intervention with leukophoresis, cytoreductive chemotherapy, and
eventually radiation therapy for central nervous system
involvement. Thrombocytopenia is a common finding at
diagnosis. Because quantitative and qualitative platelet
dysfunction and/or concurrent infections may increase the
likelihood of bleeding, platelet transfusions may be justified even with only moderately decreased platelet counts.
In about 50% of patients, serum uric acid levels were
increased at presentation and can be worsened by the initiation of chemotherapy due to tumor lysis and may rapidly lead to uric acid nephropathy and renal failure.
Therefore, presenting AML patients are usually given prophylaxis with allopurinol and hydration. Rasburicase
(recombinant uric oxidase enzyme) may be used in patients
allergic to allopurinol or unable to tolerate oral therapies
or for the treatment of uric acid nephropathy. Finally, the
presence in high concentrations of lysozyme, usually associated with monocytic differentiation, may lead to renal
tubular dysfunction.

Chapter 12:

Prognostic Factors
To achieve long survival and/or cure, treated AML patients
must achieve complete remission (19). Complete remission
is defined as <5% blasts in the marrow, a blood neutrophil
count ≥1000/μl, and a platelet count ≥100,000/μl following
induction chemotherapy. Circulating blasts should be absent.
Rare blasts detectable in blood during marrow regeneration should disappear on successive studies. Extramedullary leukemia should not be present.
Failure to achieve complete remission may be due to
treatment-related toxicity and death or resistance to treatment. Many factors influence the likelihood of entering
complete remission and remission duration. Older age is
associated with a poorer prognosis likely because of its
influence on the patient’s ability to survive induction therapy, because of chronic and intercurrent co-morbid conditions, or because of chemoresistance mediated by multidrug
resistance 1 efflux pump expression (20). Other factors
that confer higher risk of resistance to therapy such as prior
chemotherapy for an unrelated cancer, antecedent hematopoietic disorders, and/or presence of poor-risk cytogenetic
abnormalities are also relatively common in older patients.
Regardless of age, performance status and hyperleukocytosis (>100,000/μl) influence independently the ability to
survive induction therapy and response to treatment (21).
Structural and numerical chromosome aberrations
have been identified as one of the most important factors
that influence the outcome of AML patients (Table 12.3)
(22). Based on the presence or absence of recurrent chromosome aberrations, AML patients are assigned to a favorable,
intermediate, or poor cytogenetic risk group. In cytogenetically normal patients (40–45% of the entire AML
population) who lack any chromosome aberrations, submicroscopic genetic alterations should be used to refine
outcome prediction (Table 12.4) (23). Internal tandem duplications (ITDs) within the juxtamembrane domain of the
FLT3 gene are detectable in 28% to 33% of the cytogenetically normal AML patients and predict poor outcome,
especially if the FLT3-ITD/FLT3-wild-type allelic ratio is
high (24). In addition to FLT3-ITD, FLT3 point mutations
have been discovered, but their prognostic significance
remains unclear. Mutations of the NPM1 gene are the most
frequent in cytogenetically normal AML patients, reported
in 46% to 62% (25). The presence of NPM1 mutations is
associated with a significantly improved outcome, especially
in the absence of FLT3-ITD (26). Other less-frequent genetic
abnormalities in cytogenetically normal AML patients have
also been associated with better outcome, e.g., CEBPA mutations, or adverse outcome, e.g., the partial tandem duplication of the MLL gene (MLL-PTD), WT1 mutations, and
overexpression of the BAALC, ERG, or MN1 genes (27–34).
Submicroscopic markers can also refine prognostication in patients with specific, prognostic chromosome aberrations. In the favorable subset of AML patients with t(8;21)
or inv(16)/t(16;16) (collectively referred to as core-binding
factor AML), mutations in the KIT gene have been shown
to adversely affect the clinical outcome (33).

Treatment
Induction Therapy
Treatment of newly diagnosed AML patients is usually
divided into two phases, induction and postremission

Table 12.3

Leukemias

217

Cytogenetic Risk Groups in AML

Cytogenetic risk group

Chromosome aberration

Favorable
Intermediate

t(8;21); inv(16)/t(16;16); t(15;17)
Normal karyotype; –Y, del(7q), del(9q),
t(9;11); del(11q), isolated +8, +11,
+21, del(20q)
Complex karyotype; inv(3)/t(3;3); –7 t(6;9);
t(6;11); t(11;19)(q23;p13.3); –5; del(5q)

Adverse

Table 12.4
Normal AML

Molecular Prognostic Markers in Cytogentically

Marker

Marker location

Prognostic impact

NPM1 mutations
CEBPA mutation
FLT3-ITD
FLT3-TKD
WT1 mutations
MLL-PTD
BAALC overexpression
ERG overexpression
MN1 overexpression

5q35
19q13.1
13q12
13q12
11p13
11q23
8q22.3
21q22.3
22q12.1

Favorable
Favorable
Adverse
Adverse
Adverse
Adverse
Adverse
Adverse
Adverse

Abbreviations: ITD, internal tandem duplication; TKD, point mutation of tyrosine
kinase domain; PTD, partial tandem duplication.

management. Once induction treatment is completed and
complete remission obtained, further consolidation therapy must be used to prolong survival and achieve cure.
The initial induction chemotherapy and subsequent postremission treatment approaches are often chosen based on
the patient’s age and other clinical and genetic prognostic
factors.
Standard induction chemotherapy regimens for
patients younger than 60 years, without a history of antecedent hematologic diseases such as MDS or treatmentrelated AML, include a combination of cytarabine (cytosine
arabinoside) and an anthracycline (21). Cytarabine at a
dose of 100 to 200 mg/m2/day is usually administered as
a continuous intravenous infusion for seven days. Attempts
to escalate the dose of cytarabine during induction therapy
resulted in higher mortality and did not translate to better
complete remission rates. Anthracyclines (e.g., daunorubicin or idarubicin) are given intravenously on days 1 to 3
(the 7 and 3 regimen). Although several studies have been
conducted to assess which of the anthracyclines may confer higher probability of disease response, this remains
controversial (1). The addition of etoposide may improve
remission duration.
After induction chemotherapy, the marrow is examined to determine the response. Approximately 70% of
adults younger than 60 years with de novo AML achieve
complete remission. The remaining patients fail to achieve
complete remission because of death from treatmentrelated complications or resistant disease. Patients younger
than 70 years who fail to attain complete remission after
induction treatment should be considered for salvage regimens, which include high-dose cytarabine or novel therapeutic agents, although some patients could be considered

218

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

immediately for an allogeneic stem-cell transplantation if
an appropriate donor exists, especially if no circulating
blasts are observed.
Supportive care of AML patients through a prolonged period of granulocytopenia and thrombocytopenia
is critical to the success of therapy. AML clinical trials
involving the use of recombinant hematopoietic growth
factors have shown reduced median time to neutrophil
recovery but no significant improvement in the outcome
(34,35). The use of growth factors as supportive care for
AML patients is therefore controversial, and, outside
clinical trials, they should be administered according to
published guidelines (36).
Multilumen right atrial catheters should be used in
AML patients for administering intravenous medications,
fluid, and transfusions, as well as for drawing blood. Platelet transfusions should be given to maintain a platelet
count >10,000/μl to 20,000/μl. In febrile patients and during episodes of active bleeding or disseminated intravascular coagulation, it may be necessary to keep platelet
counts at higher levels. Red blood cell transfusions should
be administered to keep the hemoglobin level >8 g/dl.
Higher levels of hemoglobin should be targeted for patients
with heavy bleeding, disseminated intravascular coagulation, or known history of cardiovascular disease. All blood
products should be leukodepleted by filtration and irradiated to prevent serious side effects such as alloimmunization, fever, and transfusion-associated graft-versus-host
disease. Cytomegalovirus-negative blood should be used
in cytomegalovirus-seronegative patients who are potential
candidates for allogeneic stem-cell transplantation.
Complications due to infections remain the major
cause of morbidity and death during the treatment of AML.
Prophylactic systemic administration of antibiotics may be
considered based on institutional epidemiologic data. Prophylaxis to prevent oral candidiasis and herpetic infection
(in herpes simplex virus antibody titer-positive patients)
is recommended. Fever should be aggressively treated with
early initiation of empirical broad-spectrum antibacterial
and antifungal antibiotics (37).

Postremission Therapy
Induction of a first longlasting complete remission is critical to long-term disease-free survival of AML patients.
However, without further therapy, virtually all patients
experience relapse. Approaches to postremission therapy
in AML are often based on age and other prognostic factors (38). For younger patients, most studies include intensive chemotherapy and autologous or allogeneic stem-cell
transplantation.
High-dose cytarabine is more effective than standarddose cytarabine based on the Cancer and Leukemia Group
B (CALGB) experience (39). Multiple courses of high-dose
cytarabine appear particularly effective in patients with
core-binding factor AML and those with cytogenetically
normal AML (40–43).
Allogeneic and autologous stem-cell transplantations
in first complete remission have been studied extensively
in younger patients with no major organ dysfunction. Allogeneic stem-cell transplantation reduces the risk of relapse,
but a more favorable impact on survival when compared
with chemotherapy or autologous stem-cell transplantation

remains to be demonstrated (44–46). This is likely due to
the relatively high toxicity arising from the treatment associated with allogeneic stem-cell transplantation, which may
offset the benefit from reduced risk of relapse derived from
this procedure. In contrast, in patients treated with autologous stem-cell transplantation, the toxicity is significantly
lower, but the relapse rate is higher than in patients treated
with allogeneic stem-cell transplantation. In cytogenetically
normal AML with high-risk molecular features such as
FLT3-ITD, the optimal postinduction therapy is controversial, although recent results suggest an increased survival
for patients treated with allogeneic stem-cell transplantation in first complete remission (47,48). No such advantage
has been clearly reported when transplantation is used for
core-binding factor AML in first complete remission. Prognostic factors may help select patients with high-risk disease for whom allogeneic stem-cell transplantation may
represent the most effective approach.

Treatment of Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia
The identification of the fusion gene PML/RARA, created
as a result of t(15;17) or rare cryptic chromosome rearrangements, is the molecular hallmark of APL (49,50). Recognition of APL is important because this is a highly
curable disease. Although APL is responsive to cytarabine
and daunorubicin, only about 10% of patients treated with
these drugs die because of disseminated intravascular
coagulation induced by the release of granule components
by apoptotic leukemic cells. The outcome of APL patients
has improved with the introduction of all-trans-retinoic
acid, an oral drug that induces the differentiation of leukemic cells bearing the PML/RARA fusion gene. However,
when treating APL patients with all-trans-retinoic acid, the
physician should be aware of a treatment-related complication called retinoic acid syndrome, which is characterized
by increasing leukocyte counts, fever, dyspnea, chest pain,
pulmonary infiltrates, pleural and pericardial effusions,
and hypoxia. This condition is effectively treated by glucocorticoids and/or chemotherapy and supportive measures.
All-trans-retinoic acid plus concurrent anthracyclinebased chemotherapy is a standard treatment for APL (50).
Addition of cytarabine to the induction therapy remains
controversial. Up to 90% of APL patients achieve complete
remission, and the goal of the subsequent consolidation
therapy is to maintain a molecular remission for a long term.
This is usually achieved with consolidation with all-transretinoic acid and anthracycline. Recently, the benefit of
including two cycles of arsenic trioxide during the first complete remission has been reported by CALGB (51). There
is evidence that patients with APL may benefit from the
maintenance therapy with all-trans-retinoic acid with or
without chemotherapy, but additional data remain to be
collected to verify whether this approach is beneficial for
all or only for distinct subsets of patients (52,53). Given the
high cure rates of APL patients, current efforts are aimed
at identifying those patient subsets that can achieve cure
with a substantial decrease in the chemotherapy and those
at a greatest risk of relapse that may benefit from innovative
and more aggressive approaches (54).
The detection of minimal residual disease during
complete remission by RT-PCR of PML/RARA transcript
has been shown to predict relapses. Sequential RT-PCR

Chapter 12:

monitoring of PML/RARA is now considered standard for
postremission monitoring of APL (55). Patients with disease
refractory to all-trans-retinoic acid or those in molecular or
clinical relapse should be treated with arsenic trioxide that
produces meaningful responses in up to 85% of the cases
(56). Thereafter, patients showing clinical response should
be considered for autologous stem-cell transplantation, if
complete molecular remission was achieved, or for allogeneic stem-cell transplantation, if PML/RARA can still be
detected.

Treatment of Relapsed AML
Once relapse occurs following initial treatment, patients are
rarely treated further with standard-dose chemotherapy.
The factors most predictive of response in relapsed patients
are duration of previous complete remission and number
of previous salvage regimens received. Patients eligible for
allogeneic stem-cell transplantation should receive transplants expeditiously in the first relapse or second complete
remission. The outcome of patients who received allogeneic stem-cell transplantation in second complete remission
is likely better than the outcome of those transplanted in
first relapse (57). Nonetheless, allogeneic stem-cell transplantation may be a better choice than chemotherapy in
patients in first relapse with refractory disease or those with
complete remission that has lasted less than 6 to 12 months
(58). For this group of patients, the complete remission rate
following salvage chemotherapy is only 10% to 20%. The
long-term disease-free survival of relapsed patients eventually treated with allogeneic stem-cell transplantation is
approximately 40%.
For patients older than 60 years, for whom clinical trials are not available, gemtuzumab ozogamicin (Mylotarg™),
a humanized anti-CD33 antibody linked to calicheamicin,
is a therapeutic alternative (59). The overall complete remission rate in response to this therapy is ∼30% but is quite
limited in patients who relapse early (<6 months) or have
refractory disease.

Novel Approaches and Future Directions
Progress made in understanding the pathophysiology of
AML has allowed the development of novel molecularly
targeted strategies (Table 12.5) (59). Aberrant tyrosine
kinase activity has been shown to play an important role
in the pathogenesis of AML. Mutations of the FLT3 gene
that encodes a tyrosine kinase receptor have been shown
to be suitable targets for tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Current
studies are investigating the combination of tyrosine kinase
inhibitors with induction and/or consolidation regimens in
previously untreated AML patients or with salvage regimens in refractory or relapsed AML patients. Treatments
with tyrosine kinase inhibitors are also being explored in
core-binding factor AML harboring KIT mutations.
Other emerging investigational therapies include
agents targeting aberrant epigenetic changes in AML blasts
(59). Epigenetic silencing of structurally normal genes by
aberrant DNA methylation and/or histone deacetylation
has been described in AML. In contrast to genetic deletions
causing irreversible loss of gene function, epigenetic gene
silencing induced by DNA methylation and/or histone
deacetylation can be reversed via pharmacologic inhibition

Leukemias

219

Table 12.5 Selected New Agents under Study for the Treatment
of Adults with AML
Class of drugs

Examples of agents in class

Tyrosine kinase inhibitors

PKC412, MLN518, SU11248,
CHIR-258, Imatinib (STI571,
Gleevec), dasatinib, AMN107
Decitabine, 5-azacytidine
Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA),
MS275, LBH589, Valproic Acid
Arsenic trioxide, Antimony
Cyclosporine, LY335979, Valspodar

Demethylating agents
Histone deacetylase
inhibitors
Heavy metals
Multidrug resistance
1 modulators
Farnesyl transferase
inhibitors
HSP-90 antagonists
Cell cycle inhibitors
Nucleoside analogs
Humanized antibodies
Toxin-conjugated antibodies
Radiolabeled antibodies

R115777, SCH66336
17-allylaminogeldanamycin (17-AAG),
DMAG, or derivatives
Flavopiridol, CYC202 (R-Roscovitine),
SNS-032
Clofarabine, Troxacitabine
Anti-CD33 (SGN33), anti-DR4,
anti-DR5, anti-KIR
Gemtuzumab ozogamicin
Yttrium-90-labeled human M195

of DNA methyltransferases and histone deacetylases, respectively. Hypomethylating agents currently used in the clinic
include 5-azacytidine and decitabine (collectively called
azanucleosides), both approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for use in MDS. Treatment with azanucleoside alone or in combination with histone deacetylase
inhibitors represents a rational approach to AML therapy.
In addition, other classes of agents being tested
in AML include the farnesyltransferase inhibitor tipifarnib (R115777, Zarnestra), the alkylating agent cloretazine
(VNP40101M), the nucleoside analog clofarabine, and the
proteasome inhibitor bortezomib. All these compounds have
shown encouraging results in high-risk patients (older
and/or refractory/relapsed AML).
In contrast, targeting the multidrug resistance 1 efflux
pump activity with inhibitors (e.g., Valspodar) has not
been successful, except for the addition of cyclosporine to
daunorubicin and high-dose cytarabine, which seemingly
improved the outcome (60). Inhibition of the BCL2 antiapoptotic activity that mediates chemoresistance in AML
may be a promising strategy, but it remains to be validated
in clinical trials.

ACUTE LYMPHOBLASTIC LEUKEMIA
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a clonal malignant disease
of the immature lymphoid hematopoietic progenitors that
can arise in the marrow, thymus, lymph nodes, or spleen,
is presently categorized according to the World Health
Organization classification, which uses morphology, immunophenotype, and, increasingly, genetic and cytogenetic
findings. In contrast to AML, there is no agreed-upon
lower limit for the blast percentage required for ALL diagnosis; many treatment protocols use 25% of blast as the
cutoff for diagnosis, and, in general, ALL diagnosis should
be avoided when there are <20% of blasts (18). The recently
updated 2008 World Health Organization classification

220

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

includes now several B-lineage ALL (B-ALL), but not
T-lineage ALL (T-ALL), categories recognized as separate
entities based on the presence of specific chromosome/
molecular abnormalities (Table 12.6) (18).

Pathophysiology
The theories about the origin of the leukemia-initiating cell
in ALL vary. Some relate it to an already committed B- or
T-lineage cell (61–63), whereas others propose that, in at
least some ALL subtypes, the leukemic blasts may arise
from a more phenotypically primitive hematopoietic stem
cell (64–67).
Secondary ALL, defined as ALL following another
malignancy, irrespective of whether patients received prior
therapy, is a rare entity characterized by increased frequency of 11q23/MLL aberrations in all age groups,
increased frequency of BCR-ABL-positive disease in pediatric patients and its decreased frequency in older patients
(68). As in secondary AML, the outcome continues to be
extremely poor.

Clinical Presentation

Table 12.6

World Health Organization Classification of ALL

Precursor lymphoid neoplasms
B lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma
B lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma, NOS
B lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma with recurrent genetic
abnormalities
B lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma with t(9;22)(q34;q11.2);
BCR-ABL1
B lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma with t(v;11q23); MLL
rearranged
B lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma with t(12;21)(p13;q22);
TEL-AML1 (ETV6-RUNX1)
B lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma with hyperdiploidy
B lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma with hypodiploidy
(hypodiploid ALL)
B lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma with t(5;14)(q31;q32);
IL3-IGH
B lymphoblastic leukaemia/lymphoma with t(1;19)(q23;p13.3);
E2A-PBX1; (TCF3-PBX1)
T lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma
Mature B-cell neoplasms
Burkitt lymphoma
Source: From Ref. 18.

Symptoms
The symptoms are not significantly different from those of
patients with AML. Patients may present with fever, pallor,
complaints of palpitations due to anemia and/or infection,
spontaneous bleeding, and fatigue.

Physical Findings
Findings on physical examination range from fever,
petechiae/ecchymoses, hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, and
peripheral lymphadenopathy. Involvement of central nervous system is detected in approximately 10% of the cases
and is more prevalent in T-ALL.

Hematologic Findings
White blood cell (WBC) counts ≥30 × 109/l occur in approximately 25% to 63% of the patients; T-ALL tends to present
with higher WBC counts. Platelet counts ≥50 × 109/l occur
in approximately 50% of the patients. Hemoglobin <10 g/
dl can be found in approximately 70%, and elevated lactate
dehydrogenase in 40% to 59% of patients.
Morphological, cytochemical, immunophenotypic,
genetic, and molecular characteristic are described in
Table 12.7. The leukemic blasts may resemble hematogones,
the normal lymphoid progenitors. Morphologic distinction
between hematogones and residual ALL cells is difficult.
However, hematogones display the continuum of B-cell
markers, whereas the leukemic blasts overexpress or underexpress specific markers. Further, ALL with myeloid markers can be relatively easily distinguished from its normal
counterpart because hematogones are devoid of myeloid
markers. Finally, some ALL cases contain several populations of blasts from one or more lineages. Leukemia of
ambiguous lineage is a new entity defined by the World
Health Organization (18). It includes biphenotypic leukemia, describing a single blast population expressing antigens from more than one lineage, and bilineage leukemia,
describing separate population of blasts from more than
one lineage. The two most common examples are leukemias with t(9;22) and 11q23/MLL translocations.

Prognostic Factors
Common prognostic factors (high risk denoted in parentheses) in ALL include age at diagnosis (>60 years of age),
performance status (poor), WBC at diagnosis (>30 × 109/l
in B-ALL; >100 × 109/l in T-ALL), immunophenotype
(B-cell), multidrug resistance (expression of multidrug
resistance proteins), and lactate dehydrogenase (high level,
which is also associated with central nervous system disease). Persistence of normal residual hematopoiesis and
intense leukemic cell mitotic activity are associated with
favorable outcome. In addition to the pretreatment variables, lack of cytoreduction and absence of complete remission correlate with adverse prognosis in ALL.
Recurring chromosome abnormalities divide ALL
into unfavorable, intermediate and favorable groups based
on the probability of continuous complete remission or
disease-free survival (Table 12.8). Cytogenetic and molecular
analyses at diagnosis can assist in developing risk-adapted
therapeutic strategies and in devising new treatment modalities by unraveling of the molecular basis of the disease.
The Philadelphia chromosome, i.e., t(9;22)(q34;q11.2), is the
most common aberration in adult B-ALL being detected in
11% to 34% of patients, with an increased prevalence in
those >60 years. The translocation results in the head-to-tail
fusion of variable numbers of 5′ exons of the BCR gene,
mapped to 22q11.2, with exon 2 of the ABL gene, located
at 9q34, which creates the chimeric gene BCR/ABL. There
are two main variants of BCR/ABL that encode two types
of fusion proteins: the p190BCR/ABL harboring the first exon
of BCR and the p210BCR/ABL containing BCR exon 13 or exon
14. They are almost equally distributed among ALL cases.
Interestingly, deletion of the IKZF1 gene has been recently
found in most BCR/ABL-positive ALL patients (69). Adult
Philadelphia chromosome-positive (referred to thereafter as
Philadelphia-positive) ALL patients are usually considered
for allogeneic stem-cell transplantation or investigational
therapies, as they are not cured with chemotherapy alone.

Chapter 12:

Table 12.7

Leukemias

221

Characteristics of Adult ALL

Characteristics

B-ALL

Blast morphology

Blasts range from homogenous small cells with high nuclear-to-cytoplasmic ratio and Medium-sized homogenous
inconspicuous nucleoli to more pleomorphic cells that are often larger in size, have
cells with dispersed
a lower nuclear-to-cytoplasmic ratio and prominent nucleoli
chromatin, multiple nucleoli,
and a moderate amount of
deep blue cytoplasm with
clearly defined vacuoles
Hypercellular with almost complete replacement of the normal bone marrow with the “Starry sky” appearance: tinted
leukemic blasts; increased reticulin deposits can be found in up to 70% of B-cell
body macrophages (the
precursor-ALL
stars) scattered among
sheets of dark blue blasts
(the sky)

Bone marrow morphology

Cytochemistry
MPO
TdT
PAS
AP
Oil red O
Ki-67
Immunophenotype
CD19
CyCD79a
CyCD22
CD10
PAX5b
SIg
CD1a
CyCD3
CD4/8
Cytogenetics

Ph+ ALL

Burkitt leukemia

Negative
Positive
“Block” positivity
Negative
Negative
Variable

Negative
Positive
“Block” positivity
Positive
Negative
Variable

Negative
Positive
“Block” positivity
Negative
Negative
Variable

Negative
Negative

Positive
Positive
Positive
Positivea
Positive
Negativec
Negative
Negative
Negative
Translocations involving
11q23/MLL gene;
4q21/AFF1 is the most
common 11q23/MLL partner

Negative
Negative in 90% of cases
Negative
May be positive
Negative
Negative
Positive
Positive
Positive
del(9p); loss of CDKN2A in
about 30% of cases

Positive
Positive
Positive
Positive
Positive
Negative
Negative
Negative
Negative
t(9;22)(q34;q11.2)

Positive
Positive
Positive
Positive
Positive
Positive
Negative
Negative
Negative
t(8;14)(q24;q32)
t(2;8)(p12;q24)
t(8;22)(q24;q11)

Positive in 20% of cases
Positive

Positive
Positive

Positive
Negative

Activating mutations in the
extracellular domain and/
or C-terminal PEST
domain of NOTCH1
Positive in 30% of cases
Positive in 10–15% of cases
Negative

Negative

Negative

Negative
Negative
Negative

Negative
Negative
Positive

Molecular
Clonal DJ rearrangement Positive
T-cell receptor gene
Positive (up to 70%)
rearrangements
Negative
NOTCH1

HOX11 (TLX1)
HOX11L2 (TLX3)
MYC translocation

T-ALL

Negative
Negative
Negative

Negative
Positive
>99% positive

a

Except those with t(v;11q23); MLL rearranged.
Also positive in AML with t(8;21).
Can be present but provided that other morphologic and cytogenetics are consistent with B-lineage ALL.
Abbreviations: AFF1, gene from chromosome 4 fused with the MLL gene; AP, acid phosphatase; CD, Cluster designation; CDKN2A, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor
2A; Cy, cytoplasmic; MLL, myeloid/lymphoid or mixed-lineage leukemia gene; MPO, myeloperoxidase; PAS, periodic acid-Schiff; PAX5, paired box 5; Sig, surface
immunoglobulins; TdT, terminal deoxynucleotide transferase.
b
c

Translocations involving 11q23/MLL involve many
different fusion partners. In some cases, these partners
encode transcriptional trans-activators [e.g., t(4;11)(q21;q23),
t(9;11)(p22;q23), and t(11;19)(q23;p13.3)] (70). The most
common MLL partner in adults is the AFF1 (AF4) gene at
4q21; t(4;11)/MLL/AFF1 confers adverse prognosis.
Progress has been made in molecular characterization of ALL. The transcription factor PAX5 was found to
be inactivated in B-ALL by deletion or point mutation (71).
The PAX5 gene, located at 9p13.2, is also involved in translocations, e.g., t(7;9)(q11;p13) resulting in the PAX5-ENL
protein shown to inhibit the function of the wild-type

PAX5 (72). Although other molecular aberrations are being
discovered, their prognostic significance remains to be
explored.
Similarly, in T-ALL, the expression of certain oncogenes has been closely linked to the developmental arrest
at particular stages of normal thymocyte development
(70,73,74). For example, activating somatic mutations in
NOTCH1 were found in approximately 50% of T-ALL
cases. The mutations target different areas within NOTCH1,
leading to increased signaling. The NOTCH1 protein, either
normal or aberrant, is cleaved by the γ-secretase complex,
leading to its translocation to the nucleus, where it induces

222

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 12.8

Cytogenetic Risk Groups in ALL

Risk group

Cytogenetic abnormality

Favorable

del(12p) or t(12p)
t(14)(q11-q13)
Hyperdiploid
None (normal karyotype)
+21
del(9p) or t(9p)
del(6q)
t(9;22)(q34;q11.2)
–7
+8 t(4;11)(q21;q23)
Hypodiploid
t(1;19)(q23;p13)

Intermediate

Unfavorable

the transcription of NOTCH1-target genes. Current clinical
trials evaluate the role of γ-secretase inhibitors in T-ALL.
Lack of HOX11 expression (75), and high ERG and BAALC
expression (76) are predictive of adverse outcome in
T-ALL.
The presence of minimal residual disease after treatment is associated with poor outcome. Molecular analysis
and flow cytometry are the mainstay techniques to detect
minimal residual disease (77). Detection of clonotypic TCR
and IGH gene rearrangements was used initially. Later,
tumor-specific RNA was used to detect fusion gene transcripts (e.g., BCR/ABL, MLL/AFF1) or aberrantly expressed
genes (e.g., FLT3, WT1). Flow cytometry is another method
to detect minimal residual disease in ALL. Flow cytometry
can identify one abnormal cell in 104 to 105 cells. Of note,
clonal evolution may cause the disappearance of one or
more antigens detected at diagnosis. Taking into consideration the aforementioned caveats, absence of minimal
residual disease revealed by either molecular techniques or
quantitative flow cytometry at the end of induction therapy
was associated with better clinical outcome in some adult
ALL studies (77,78).

Treatment
Different treatment approaches are outlined in Table 12.9.
Overall, the outcome in either B- and T-ALL with any of
Table 12.9

these approaches results in approximately 30% to 40% fiveyear survival (79). The main achievements in the last few
years, are the inclusion of imatinib mesylate (Gleevec®)
in Philadelphia-positive ALL, the approval of nelarabine
(Arranon®) for T-ALL, the use of pediatric regimens to
treat ALL in adolescents and young adults, and the inclusion of anti-CD20 antibody in the Burkitt leukemia armamentarium; these are discussed in detail below.

Imatinib Mesylate
Imatinib is described fully in the section on “Chronic
Myelogenous Leukemia.” Imatinib alone was not sufficient
to induce prolonged remission in Philadelphia-positive
ALL patients. Therefore, several groups studied its combination with chemotherapy, either sequentially (aiming to
reduce toxicities) or concurrently (80–90). Overall, the results
demonstrate a significant improvement over chemotherapyalone approaches; although the follow-up is relatively short
(the longest is three years).
The mechanisms of resistance to imatinib are delineated in the section on “Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia.”
Unique to Philadelphia-positive ALL is that kinase domain
mutations may precede imatinib-based therapy and give rise
to relapse in patients with de novo Philadelphia-positive
ALL (91). These data suggest that, in contrast to CML,
mutational analysis could be considered at diagnosis in
Philadelphia-positive ALL and treatment could be tailored
accordingly.
In CML, decreased intracellular imatinib concentrations are addressed by intensifying the therapy with higher
(up to 800 mg/day) imatinib doses. This approach is not
useful in treating Philadelphia-positive ALL as the recommended dose is already at its maximum. As discussed in
the section “Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia,” the novel
BCR/ABL kinase inhibitors are more potent than imatinib
and can overcome this mechanism of resistance.
Alternative signaling pathways have been implicated
in resistance to imatinib. Specifically, the Src family kinase
members, Lyn, Hck, and Fgr, have been shown elevated in
the hematopoietic cells of mice with Philadelphia-positive
ALL and required for the induction of Philadelphia-positive

Treatment of Adult ALL

B-ALL and T-ALL

Ph+ ALL

Burkitt

BFM-like regimen
Induction with VCR, PRED, daunorubicin, and L-ASP;
Early intensification with CTX, ARA-C, 6-MP, VCR;
CNS prophylaxis with intrathecal MTX with either cranial irradiation or
high dose MTX and ARA-C;
Late intensification with doxorubicin, VCR, DEXA, CTX, 6-TG, and ARA-C;
Maintenance with VCR, PRED, 6-MP, and MTX to complete 24 months

Addition of imatinib to any of
the approaches described
for B-lineage diseases

CTX, VCR, doxorubicin, high-dose MTX,
and intrathecal therapy alternating
with ifosfamide, VP-16, high-dose
ARA-C and intrathecal therapy

New treatment aspects: new
tyrosine kinase inhibitors

New treatment aspects: anti-CD20
antibody

Hyper-CVAD regimen
Alternating courses of CTX, VCR, doxorubicin, and DEXA with MTX and
high dose ARA-C;
CNS prophylaxis includes intrathecal chemotherapy;
Maintenance with VCR, PRED, 6-MP, and MTX to complete 24 months
New treatment aspects: anti-CD20 antibody (for B-ALL), nelarabine (for
T-ALL), different regimens for adolescents and young adults

Abbreviations: ARA-C, cytosine arabinoside; BFM, Berlin-Frankfurt-Munster; CTX, cyclophosphamide; DEXA, dexamethasone; L-ASP, L-asparaginase; MTX, methotrexate;
PRED, prednisone; VCR, vincristine; VP-16, etoposide.

Chapter 12:

ALL (92). Dasatinib (Sprycel®) and bosutinib (SKI-606) target the Src family kinase members (see section “Chronic
Myelogenous Leukemia”). Another pathway involved in
imatinib resistance in Philadelphia-positive ALL is stromal
support. Although the BCR/ABL kinase continued to be
inhibited by imatinib, leukemia cells have been shown to
proliferate in the presence of stromal support (93). These
data suggest that the stroma selects imatinib resistant BCR/
ABL cells that are less dependent on the kinase activity;
interrupting the interaction between the lymphoblasts and
the stroma may be of benefit in Philadelphia-positive ALL.

Dasatinib for Philadelphia-positive ALL
Dasatinib was tested in imatinib-resistant and naive Ph+
ALL patients. Dasatinib as a single agent was indeed shown
to induce rapid hematologic and cytogenetic responses in
adult Ph+ ALL patients with resistance or intolerance to
imatinib (94). With a minimum follow-up of eight months,
complete hematologic responses were achieved by 31% and
complete cytogenetic responses by 58% of the patients. The
lower rate of hematologic responses compared with cytogenetic responses stems from the cytopenias associated
with dasatinib.
Dasatinib and prednisone were recently studied as a
front-line therapy in the induction of newly diagnosed
Philadelphia-positive ALL (95). All patients achieved complete remission by day 22 and only one patient relapsed.
In addition, preliminary results of the combination of dasatinib with hyper-CVAD were shown to induce complete
remission in 93% of patients and cytogenetic responses in all
but one patient.

Nilotinib for Philadelphia-positive ALL
Nilotinib (Tasigna®) (described in the section “Chronic
Myelogenous Leukemia”) was tested in imatinib-resistant
Philadelphia-positive ALL patients. As monotherapy, nilotinib had promising activity in imatinib-resistant disease
(96). Trials combining nilotinib with chemotherapy for
Philadelphia-positive ALL are forthcoming.

Leukemias

223

New Drugs for Philadelphia-positive ALL
Bosutinib (discussed in the section “Chronic Myelogenous
Leukemia”) is currently undergoing clinical trials in
patients with CML and Philadelphia-positive ALL who
have failed treatment with imatinib, dasatinib, and/or nilotinib. The results will be available in the near future.

Nelarabine for T-ALL
Nelarabine is a new purine analog shown to have significant activity in T-ALL patients whose disease has not
responded to or has relapsed following treatment with at
least two chemotherapy regimens (97). In the adult clinical
trial, the rate of complete remission was 31% and the overall response rate was 41%. The principal toxicity was grade
3 or 4 neutropenia (37% of patients) and thrombocytopenia
(26% of patients). Nelarabine is now going to be studied
in newly diagnosed T-ALL.

Treating Adolescents and Young Adults
Adolescents and young adults represent a challenging
group for both pediatric and adult oncologists. Several
groups recently evaluated the outcome of patients aged 16
to 21 years based on their treatment on adult or pediatric
protocols (Fig. 12.1) (98). Despite an assortment of treatment approaches among the different groups, the results
of these retrospective analyses consistently demonstrated
that adolescents and young adults treated on pediatric protocols had a significantly better five-year survival than
those treated on adult protocols. Several reasons were suggested for these differences including more intensive use of
nonmyelosuppressive agents (e.g., steroids, L-asparaginase,
vinciristine), earlier central nervous system prophylaxis,
and longer maintenance in the pediatric protocols. Moreover, protocol adherence/compliance, by both treating
physicians and patients, was raised as a contributing factor
to outcome differences. Therefore, several groups have
started offering pediatric regimens to adolescents and young
adults in a prospective manner. Preliminary results from
two European studies (99,100), employing pediatric regimens for adolescents and young adults up to age 30, are
very encouraging.

70

% 5-Year survival

60
50
40
30
20
10
0
US

France
Pediatric

UK
Adult

Netherlands

Figure 12.1 Five-year survival of adolescents and young adults with ALL treated on
pediatric or adult protocols.

224

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Treatment of Burkitt Disease
Burkitt leukemia is a subtype of ALL whose hallmark
is the t(8;14)(q24;q32) and its variants, t(2;8)(p12;q24) and
t(8;22)(q24;q11). As a result of t(8;14), the MYC gene at
8q24, is juxtaposed to the enhancer elements of the IGH
gene at 14q32. In the variant translocations, one of the
immunoglobulin light chain genes, mapped to 2p12 (IGK)
or 22q11 (IGL), is translocated to a telomeric region of MYC
(101). Consequently, MYC is activated and expressed at
high levels. Because the product of the MYC gene, a DNA
binding protein, is implicated in the regulation of other
critical genes, its constitutive production results in uncontrolled proliferation of cells with one of the translocations.
The treatment of adult Burkitt disease underwent a
significant improvement when pediatric regimens, including repetitive cycles of fractionated alkylating agents and
aggressive central nervous system therapy, were employed
(79). Since Burkitt disease is characterized by strong CD20
expression, two groups (102,103) successfully included the
anti-CD20 antibody, rituximab (Rituxan®), in their treatment
regimens. In addition to the favorable outcome in these
patients, concerns about increased infectious complications,
due to the use of rituximab, were dismissed by these trials.

Allogeneic Stem-Cell Transplantation
Allogeneic stem-cell transplantation continues to represent
an effective treatment approach for adult ALL. We currently recommend an allogeneic stem-cell transplantation
for all ALL patients unless enrolled onto a specific clinical
trial, e.g., Philadelphia-positive ALL, where autologous
transplantation is also an option. Most data suggest that
the inclusion of total body irradiation in the preparatory
regimen results in better outcome (104). However, graftversus-leukemia does not seem to be as potent in ALL as
in other diseases. Therefore, employing reduced-intensity
preparatory regimens for the elderly, those with poor performance status or co-morbidities, presents a challenge.

Future Directions
Pegylated asparaginase (Oncospar®) decreases the immunogenicity of the enzyme, thus reducing the risk of hypersensitivity reactions. Another advantage of pegylated
asparaginase is its long half-life. Its use in adult ALL patients
has been lagging behind when compared with its use in
pediatric ALL patients, because of lack of pharmacokinetic
and pharmacodynamic data in adults. However, two recent
publications may change this trend. Specifically, the recent
demonstration of the safety of intravenous pegylated asparaginase during remission induction in adult ALL with
favorable pharmacodynamics and decreased hypersensitivity reactions (105) suggests that this route will replace other
routes of administration. Further, the finding that effective
asparagine depletion with pegylated asparaginase resulted
in improved outcome in adult ALL (106) suggests that
monitoring for asparagine depletion will become part of the
treatment approach in these patients.
Finally, clofarabine (Clolar®) is a novel deoxyadenosine analog with clinical activity in refractory and relapsed
pediatric ALL patients. Its role in combination with other
drugs in relapsed/refractory adult ALL patients is being
investigated (107,108). Upon completion of optimal dose

and combination identification, clofarabine will be tested
as a front-line agent in adult ALL.

CHRONIC MYELOGENOUS LEUKEMIA
CML is a myeloproliferative disorder defined by the presence of the BCR/ABL chimeric gene, a product of a reciprocal t(9;22) occurring in a hematopoietic stem cell (3). BCR/
ABL plays a central role in the development of CML. It is
transcribed into a hybrid BCR/ABL mRNA in which exon
1 of ABL is replaced by variable numbers of 5′ BCR exons.
The BCR/ABL fusion proteins, p210BCR/ABL, contain NH2terminal domains of BCR from exon one up to either exon
13 or exon 14 fused to exon two of ABL. A rare breakpoint,
occurring at exon 19 of BCR, yields a fusion protein of
230 kDa.
The mechanism(s) by which p210BCR/ABL promotes the
transition from the benign to the fully malignant state is
still unclear. The attachment of the BCR sequences to ABL
results in three critical functional changes: (1) the ABL
protein becomes constitutively active as a tyrosine kinase
enzyme, subsequently activating downstream kinases that
prevent apoptosis; (2) the DNA-protein-binding activity of
ABL is attenuated; and (3) the binding of ABL to cytoskeletal actin microfilaments is enhanced. The BCR/ABL proteins can transform hematopoietic progenitor cells in vitro;
reconstituting lethally irradiated mice with marrow cells
infected with retrovirus carrying the gene encoding the
p210BCR/ABL leads to the development of a myeloproliferative syndrome resembling CML in 50% of mice.

Clinical Presentation
Symptoms
CML in approximately half of the patients is diagnosed
during routine health screening; the others may present with
fatigue, malaise, and weight loss or have symptoms resulting
from splenic enlargement. Occasionally, patients present
with leukostatic manifestations. Patients with p23-BCR/ABLpositive CML have had a more indolent course, at least in
the pre-imatinib era.
Progression of CML is associated with worsening symptoms. Unexplained fever, significant weight loss, increasing
dose requirement of the drugs controlling the disease, bone
and joint pain, bleeding, thrombosis, and infections suggest
transformation into accelerated or blastic phases. Less
than 10% to 15% of newly diagnosed patients present with
accelerated disease or with de novo blastic phase CML.

Physical Findings
Minimal to moderate splenomegaly is the most common
physical finding in CML patients; mild hepatomegaly is
found occasionally. Lymphadenopathy and myeloid sarcomas are unusual.

Hematologic Findings
Elevated WBC counts, with different levels of myeloid
maturation, are found in CML patients at diagnosis. Usually <5% circulating blasts are noted. Platelet counts are
usually elevated, and a mild degree of normochromic normocytic anemia may be present. Phagocytic functions are

Chapter 12:

preserved at diagnosis and remain normal during the
chronic phase.
The marrow cellularity is increased at diagnosis, with
a greatly altered myeloid to erythroid ratio. The marrow
blast percentage is generally normal or slightly elevated.
Marrow or blood basophilia, eosinophilia, and monocytosis
may be present. Collagen fibrosis in the marrow is unusual
at presentation, but significant degrees of reticulin stain–
measured fibrosis are noted in about half of the patients.
Accelerated phase of CML is defined by the development of increasing degrees of anemia unaccounted for
by bleeding or chemotherapy; clonal cytogenetic evolution;
blood or marrow blasts between 10% and 19%, blood or
marrow basophils ≥20%, or platelet count <100,000/μl. Blast
phase is diagnosed when blood or marrow blasts are ≥20%
or when an extramedullary blast proliferation occurs. In
approximately 70% of patients, blast cells are of myeloid
lineage and may include neutrophilic, monocytic, eosinophilic, basophilic, megakaryocytic, or erythroid blasts or
any combination thereof. Lymphoblasts are found in 20%
to 30% of patients (18).

Cytogenetic and Molecular Findings
The cytogenetic hallmark of CML is the t(9;22)(q34;q11.2).
Some patients have variant translocations that involve one
to three chromosomes in addition to chromosomes 9 and
22. However, the molecular consequences of variant translocations appear similar to those resulting from the typical
t(9;22), i.e., the creation of BCR/ABL. For CML diagnosis,
each patient should have evidence of the translocation
from cytogenetics, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH),
and/or molecular analysis.
In the pre-imatinib era, CML was likely to transform
from the chronic phase to accelerated and blastic phases.
The events associated with this transition included chromosomal instability of the malignant clone, and heterogeneous alterations in such genes as TP53, RAS, PP2A, and
MYC. Sporadic reports have documented progressive de
novo DNA methylation at the BCR/ABL locus and hypomethylation of the LINE-1 retrotransposon promoter. Further, large deletions adjacent to the translocation breakpoint
on the derivative chromosome 9 have been associated with
shorter survival, even in the post-imatinib era. Finally, CML
that develops resistance to imatinib by any of the mechanisms listed below is at increased risk to progress to accelerated phase/blast crisis. In summary, multiple pathways
to disease transformation exist, but the exact timing and
relevance of each remain unclear.

Prognostic Factors
Several prognostic models identifying different risk groups
in CML have been developed. These staging systems were
derived from multivariable analyses of prognostic factors.
The Sokal index was developed based on chemotherapytreated patients, and the Hasford system was developed
on interferon α-treated patients (3). Preliminary results
suggest that both the Sokal and Hasford systems are
applicable to imatinib-treated patients.

Treatment
The therapy of CML is rapidly undergoing evolution
because we have a targeted treatment option (imatinib) with

Leukemias

225

outstanding outcome. The role of stem-cell transplantation
is clearly diminishing in CML.
The current treatment goal in CML is to achieve
prolonged, non-neoplastic, nonclonal hematopoiesis, with
eradication of any residual cells containing the BCR/ABL
transcript. However, complete cytogenetic remission and
major molecular response (≥3 log reduction in BCR/ABL
transcript) at 18 months were associated with estimated
survival, without progression, of 100% at five years (109).
Therefore, the need to achieve complete eradication of any
residual cells may change in the upcoming years.

Imatinib Mesylate
Imatinib functions through competitive inhibition at the
adenosine triphosphate binding site of the ABL kinase
in the inactive conformation, which leads to inhibition of
tyrosine phosphorylation of proteins involved in BCR/ABL
signal transduction. It shows a high degree of specificity
for BCR/ABL, the receptor for platelet-derived growth factor and KIT tyrosine kinases. Imatinib does not affect the
hematopoietic progenitor cells (110).
In newly diagnosed CML, a recent randomized phase
III study of imatinib (400 mg/day) versus interferon-α
and cytarabine revealed an estimated complete hematologic remission rate of 98% at 60 months in imatinib-treated
patients (109). Data on interferon-α–treated patients were
not presented since most of the patients crossed over to the
imatinib arm. The estimated complete cytogenetic remission rate at 60 months was 87% in imatinib-treated patients.
Major molecular response was shown in 58% at 12 months
and 80% of patients at four years. At 60 months, the estimated event-free survival was 83%; 93% of patients did
not progress to the accelerated or blastic phase.
Based on these unsurpassed results, specific milestones have been developed for chronic-phase CML patients
(Table 12.10) (111,112). For example, chronic-phase CML
patients who do not achieve any cytogenetic remission following six months of treatment with imatinib are unlikely
to achieve major molecular response in the future and
therefore should be offered other treatment approaches.
Progression to accelerated/blastic phases of the disease decreased gradually to <1% during the fourth and
fifth years, and no patient who achieved cytogenetic complete remission during the first year of imatinib treatment
progressed to the accelerated/blastic phases of the disease.
Imatinib is administered orally and has an acceptable
toxicity profile. The main side effects are fluid retention,
nausea, muscle cramps, diarrhea, and skin rashes. The management of these side effects is usually supportive. Myelosuppression is the most common hematologic side effect.
Myelosuppression, while rare, may require blood, platelet
and/or growth factor support. Doses of <300 mg/day seem
ineffective and may lead to development of resistance. To
our current knowledge, imatinib needs to be administered
for life.
Four mechanisms of resistance to imatinib have been
described to date. These are (1) gene amplification, (2)
mutations at the kinase site, (3) decreased intracellular imatinib levels, and (4) alternative signaling pathways functionally compensating for the imatinib-sensitive mechanisms
(113). All four mechanisms are being targeted in clinical
trials. Another common mechanism of imatinib failure is

226

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 12.10

CML Milestones Based on Imatinib Treatment

Time

National comprehensive cancer
network (NCCN)

3 Months
6 Months
12 Months
18 Months
Anytime

CHR
Any cytogenetic response
PCyR
CCyR
Loss of previously achieved hematologic,
cytogenetic or molecular response

European leukemia net (ELN)
Failure

Suboptimal response

No hematologic response
<CHR, no cytogenetic response
<PCyR
<CCyR
Loss of CHR
Loss of CCyR
Mutation

<CHR
<PCyR
<CCyR
<MMR
Additional chromosome abnormalities in Ph+ cells
Loss of MMR
Mutation

Abbreviations: CCyR, complete cytogenetic response (0 Ph+ cells); CHR, complete hematologic response; MMR, major molecular response ( ≥ 3 log reduction in BCR/
ABL message); PCyR, partial cytogenetic response (<35% Ph+ cells).

patient compliance (114). Data suggest that up to 25% of
patients are noncompliant (compliance was defined as
medication possession ratio = apparent mg taken vs. mg
prescribed) (115).
BCR/ABL gene amplification and decreased intracellular imatinib concentrations are addressed by intensifying
the therapy with higher (up to 800 mg/day) imatinib doses.
Early intensification of imatinib dose in newly diagnosed
CML patients led to improved major molecular response
when compared to historical controls treated with 400 mg/
day. However, a randomized study comparing 400 to
800 mg/day in newly diagnosed CML patients did not find
any difference in achieving major molecular response
except in the subset of patients with the highest risk for
disease progression (116).
Mutations at the kinase domain are being targeted
by novel tyrosine kinase inhibitors that have a different
conformation than imatinib, demonstrating activity against
most imatinib-resistant mutations. Nilotinib, like imatinib,
binds to the kinase domain in the inactive conformation
(117). Dasatinib binds to the kinase domain in the open
conformation and also inhibits the SRC family of kinases,
addressing the last mechanism of resistance (118). Both are
oral agents with toxicity profiles similar to imatinib with
small, albeit significant, differences. Specifically, both agents
are associated with more pronounced myelosuppression
than imatinib. Nilotinib was associated with sudden death
in six of approximately 550 CML patients. A suspected
relationship to nilotinib was reported in two of these cases.
Dasatinib was shown to cause pleural effusion in 22% of the
patients, with 7% developing grade 3 to 4 toxicity. Finally,
the current tyrosine kinase inhibitors are ineffective against
some mutations (e.g., T315I); several clinical trials target
these mutations, e.g., homoharringtonine (Omacetaxine®).
The approval of these new agents has changed the
treatment algorithm of CML (111,112). For example, patients
who do not achieve any cytogenetic remission at six months
with imatinib will now be offered dasatinib, nilotinib, clinical trial with novel agents, or stem-cell transplantation.
Interferon-α will be offered only if all other options, including clinical trials, have failed.
The encouraging results with imatinib have led clinicians to offer it as a first-line therapy for newly diagnosed
CML patients, including those who otherwise would have
benefited from transplantation (e.g., young patients with a
sibling matched donor). Several groups have shown that
prior exposure to imatinib does not affect transplantation

outcome negatively. However, delaying transplantation for
high-risk (Sokal/Hasford criteria) patients, who fail to
achieve the treatment milestones (Table 12.10), may result
in worse outcome.

Chemotherapy
Initial management of patients with chemotherapy is currently reserved for rapid lowering of WBC counts, reduction
of symptoms, and reversal of symptomatic splenomegaly.
Hydroxyurea, a ribonucleotide reductase inhibitor, induces
rapid disease control. The initial dose is 1 to 4 g/day; the
dose should be halved with each 50% reduction of the WBC.
Unfortunately, cytogenetic remissions with hydroxyurea
are uncommon.

Allogeneic Stem-Cell Transplantation
Allogeneic stem-cell transplantation is the only proven
curative option for CML patients. However, it is complicated by early mortality owing to the transplantation procedure. Outcome of stem-cell transplantation depends on
multiple factors, including (1) the patient (e.g., age and
phase of disease); (2) the type of donor [e.g., syngeneic
(monozygotic twins) or HLA-compatible allogeneic, related
or unrelated]; (3) the preparative regimen (myeloblative or
reduced intensity); (4) graft-versus-host disease; and (5)
post–stem-cell transplantation treatment. Allogeneic stem-cell
transplantation is reserved nowadays only for CML patients
whose disease has developed resistance to imatinib (119).

Future Directions
Attempts to discontinue imatinib treatment have failed
because of disease recurrence. Thus, future directions concentrate on the eradication of the hematopoietic progenitor
cells initiating the disease to allow discontinuation of imatinib (109). In addition, several studies concentrate on the
advanced stages of the disease. For example, abrogation of
DNA methylation with decitabine has shown clinical activity in the advanced stages of CML (120). Inhibition of RAS
with a farnesyl transferase inhibitor that blocks its insertion
into the membrane may have antitumor activity in CML
on the basis of early clinical trials (121,122). A clinical trial
with a vaccine targeting the BCR/ABL e14a2 sequences
with two adjuvants (CMLVAX100) showed improved
cytogenetic responses in imatinib-resistant patients (123).
Pre-clinical studies have also shown that therapeutic

Chapter 12:

induction of PP2A may have promise against imatinibresistant CML (124).

CHRONIC LYMPHOCYTIC LEUKEMIA
CLL represents a common mature B-cell clonal disease
(125–131), characterized by monoclonal circulating lymphocytes (≥5 × 109/l) and/or infiltration of bone marrow
and other hematopoietic organs (lymph nodes and spleen).
CLL is subdivided prognostically based upon IgVH mutational status (132,133). However, in addition to the prognostic significance, IgVH mutational status may identify
subtypes with distinct mechanisms of leukemogenesis. Differences in B-cell receptor signaling exist between these
subtypes, with IgVH unmutated patients having enhanced
signaling. A role of disordered apoptosis in CLL has
been suggested. Studies have also demonstrated that clonal
lymphocytes have constitutive activation of several antiapoptotic transcription factors including NF-κB, NFAT,
and STAT3. The source of activation of these different
transcription factors is not completely defined but may in
part be due to autocrine and paracrine networks involving
BAFF, APRIL, VEGF, IL4, and CD40. CLL cells are also
maintained through contact with stromal cells (marrow
and dendritic) and nurse-like cells through a complex interface of adhesion molecules and stromal survival factors.
Exposure to these factors promotes up-regulation of antiapoptotic proteins such as BCL2, MCL1, and survival signaling pathways involving NF-κB, PI3-kinase, and ERK
that promote survival of CLL cells. The importance of the
in vivo environment to CLL survival is supported by
the increased apoptosis, which occurs when CLL cells are
cultured in vitro.

Diagnosis and Presentation
Symptoms
CLL patients often present with no symptoms, although a
small proportion of patients have symptoms related to marrow replacement (fatigue, dyspnea, or petechiae secondary
to anemia and thrombocytopenia), lymphadenopathy or
hepatosplenomegaly, autoimmune complications (hemolytic anemia or idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura), or
B-symptoms (fevers, night sweats, and weight loss).

227

Leukemias

and absence of red cell precursor cells. Hypogammaglobulinemia is common and becomes more frequent and
marked as the disease progresses. In contrast, hypercalcemia and markedly elevated lactate dehydrogenase is not
common in CLL and suggests Richter’s transformation,
which represents change of CLL to diffuse large cell lymphoma. This generally occurs after patients have been
treated for their CLL (135,136). Richter’s transformation is
generally associated with a very poor outcome, and investigational therapies and/or stem-cell transplantation should
be considered (135,136).
The diagnosis of CLL relies on immunophenotypic
confirmation, and flow cytometry should therefore be performed on all patients at diagnosis. CLL cells have a relatively consistent immunophenotype, which differentiates
CLL from other indolent B-cell malignancies. CLL cells
express a variety of B-cell markers, including dim surface
immunoglobulins (sIg), CD19, dim CD20, and CD23, as well
as the pan T-cell marker CD5. Kappa or lambda immunoglobulin light chain restriction is always present, establishing the presence of a clonal B-cell population, although sIg
expression may be so weak that light chain restriction may
be difficult to determine. In contrast, presence of CD10,
FMC7, or CD79b (all typically absent on CLL cells) or bright
expression of CD11c, CD20, or CD25 (all typically dim on
CLL cells) suggests an alternative low-grade B-cell lymphoproliferative malignancy. Expression of CD5 without
CD23 suggests mantle cell lymphoma, and FISH for t(11;14)
(q13;q32) should be performed to exclude this diagnosis.

Staging and Prognostic Factors
Until recently, the staging of CLL in patients has been done
using the Rai or Binet system. Both systems discriminate
CLL stages by the sites of disease and degree of cytopenias
induced by leukemia marrow replacement. The Rai staging
system is shown in Table 12.11 (137). For early-stage
patients (Rai low and intermediate stage), a relatively large
range of time to developing symptoms exists. The lack of
survival advantage with early treatment, the observation that
some patients will never require therapy, and the varied
natural history of the disease have driven research efforts
in CLL to identify specific biologic or clinical factors that
predict time to progression. Features other than the Rai or
Binet systems used in daily practice include plasma/serum
assays of thymidine kinase activity and beta-2-microglobulin,

Hematologic Findings
In addition to blood and marrow lymphocytosis, a few
abnormal laboratory findings are commonly observed
in CLL. Neutropenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia can
develop as a consequence of marrow infiltration or therapy
administered to eliminate the leukemia. A positive direct
antiglobulin test (DAT), or Coomb’s, test consistent with
the diagnosis of autoimmune antibodies directed at red
cells is observed in approximately 10% to 25% of CLL
patients sometime during the course of the disease (134).
A subset of these patients will develop symptomatic hemolytic anemia as a consequence of antibody-mediated red
cell destruction. Similarly, autoimmune thrombocytopenia
or neutropenia may be present, although marrow replacement or chemotherapy side effects are much more common
causes and should be excluded. Pure red cell aplasia can
sometimes be observed and presents with isolated anemia

Table 12.11

Rai Staging System of CLL (137)

Rai stage at diagnosis

0 Lymphocytosis >5 × 109/l
only
1 Lymph node (LN)
enlargement
2 Spleen/liver (S/L)
enlargement ± LN
3 Anemia with hemoglobin
<11 g/dl ± LN or S/L
4 Thrombocytopenia <100 ×
1012/l ± LN or S/L

Percent of patients
never requiring CLL
therapy

Expected survival
in months from
initial diagnosis

59

150

21

101

23

71

5

19

0

19

228

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

whose higher levels portend rapid disease progression and
short survival.
Cytogenetic abnormalities have been proven prognostic in CLL. Conventional metaphase cytogenetics identifies chromosomal aberrations in only 20% to 50% of
cases. Interphase FISH of known abnormalities is therefore
required to adequately assess genetic findings in CLL
and distinguish genetic subtypes of the disease, given the
absence of CLL cell proliferation without mitogen stimulation. Cytogenetic abnormalities in CLL are different from
those observed in other types of leukemia. They are mostly
deletions; balanced translocations are rare. The largest study
of interphase FISH detected abnormalities in >80% of
patients (138). The del(13)(q14) is by far the most common
cytogenetic abnormality, followed by trisomy 12, del(11)
(q22.3), del(17)(p13.1), and del(6)(q22.3). Patients with
del(11)(q22.3) and del(17)(p13.1) generally have accelerated
disease progression and poor survival (138).
Döhner and colleagues (138) constructed a hierarchical model consisting of five genetic subgroups on the basis
of regression analysis of CLL patients studied by FISH.
Patients with a del(17p) had the shortest median survival
(32 months) and treatment-free interval (nine months),
whereas patients with del(11q) followed closely with
79 months and 13 months, respectively (138). The favorable
del(13)(q14) group had a long median treatment-free interval (92 months) and survival (133 months), whereas the
group without detectable chromosomal anomalies and
patients with trisomy 12 was included in an intermediate
group, with median survivals of 111 and 114 months, and
treatment-free intervals of 33 and 49 months, respectively.
Based on this pivotal study, CLL patients are prioritized in
a hierarchical order [del(17)(p13)>del(11)(q22-q23)>trisomy
12>no aberration>del(13)(q14)] (138). Interestingly, patients
with high-risk interphase cytogenetic abnormalities or
complex abnormalities usually have IgVH unmutated CLL
(139). The impact of high-risk interphase cytogenetics relative to disease progression, outside of its association with
IgVH unmutated CLL, is unknown.
IgVH mutational status of the CLL clone is an important prognostic factor (131,132). Approximately 60% of
CLL patients have cells with mutated IgVH genes (<98%
sequence identity with germline), whereas the remaining
patients have cells exhibiting unmutated IgVH (≥98%
identity with germline). The prognostic significance of the
absence of IgVH gene mutations is substantial, with all
studies uniformly showing an inferior survival and high
predisposition to requiring early treatment (132,133,140–143).
Although other biomarkers have been suggested as surrogate markers to IgVH gene mutational status, including
ZAP-70, CD38, these are either not reproducible or not
uniformly predictive of IgVH gene mutational status.
Despite the usefulness of these clinical and laboratory tests to predict the natural history of CLL, no study
to date has demonstrated that earlier treatment will alter the
natural history of patients even in the higher-risk groups.
Therefore, at present, staging and predictive biomarkers
should be used only to provide patients with information
relative to the expected course of their disease, but these
should never be used to initiate therapy in patients with
asymptomatic disease and no indication for treatment. A
detailed discussion of how these tests will be used with

the patient should occur, and the option of not performing
them should be provided. In a subset of patients, significant anxiety can be produced by identifying high-risk features for which intervention remains only observation.
Table 12.12 provides the typical evaluation provided by
our group when seeing a newly diagnosed CLL patient.

Treatment
Initial Treatment
Treatment of CLL is not initiated until symptoms develop
based upon several studies that failed to show an improvement in overall survival when early therapeutic intervention
with chlorambucil therapy was administered to asymptomatic patients (144). The National Cancer Institute–sponsored
Working Group on CLL established guidelines for the
initiation of treatment and were recently updated (145); a
modified version is provided in Table 12.13. A useful paradigm for clinical practice is to institute treatment in CLL only
for cytopenias or directly referable symptoms. When treatment is necessary, treatment options have expanded with
the introduction of several new agents. In addition, several
retrospective (146–150) and prospective trials (151,152) have
recently demonstrated that some of the same prognostic
features that predict the time to progression and need for
therapy may also predict treatment outcome (Fig. 12.2).

Table 12.12

Evaluation of CLL Patients at Diagnosis

History
B-symptom and fatigue assessment
Infectious history assessment
Occupational assessment for chemical exposure
Familial history of CLL and lymphoproliferative disorders
Preventive interventions for infections and secondary cancers
Physical exam
Laboratory assessment
Complete blood count with differential
Morphology assessment of lymphocytes
Chemistry, LFT enzymes, lactate dehydrogenase
Flow cytometry assessment to confirm immunophenotype of CLL
Serum immunoglobulins
Serum β2M levels
Interphase cytogenetics for del(17)(p13.1), del(11)(q22.3), del(13)
(q14), del(6)(q21), trisomy 12
IgVH mutational analysis
Stimulated metaphase karyotype (if available)
Selected tests under certain circumstances
Direct antiglobulin test (DAT), haptoglobin, riticulocyte count if
anemia present
CT scan if unexplained abdominal pain or enlargement present
PET scan and/or biopsy if large nodal mass present
Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy if cytopenias present
Familial counseling if first degree relative with CLL
Teaching
Varicella zoster Identification Instruction
Skin cancer Identification
Disease education [Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, CLL Topics,
Association of Cancer Online Resources (ACOR)]

Chapter 12:

Table 12.13

Modified Indications for Treatment of CLL (145)

Grade 2 or greater fatigue limiting life activities
B-symptoms persisting for 2 weeks or greater
Lymph nodes greater than 10 cm or progressively enlarging lymph
nodes causing symptoms
Spleen or liver with progressive enlargement or causing symptoms
Anemia (hemoglobin <11 g/dl) referable to CLL
Thrombocytopenia (platelets <100 × 1012/l) referable to CLL
Autoimmune hemolytic anemia or idiopathic thrombocytopenic
purpura poorly responsive to traditional therapy
WBC >300 × 109/l on two occasions two weeks apart if no
alternative co-morbid diseases increase morbidity of treatment
Severe paraneoplastic process (insect hypersensitivity, vasculitis,
myositis, etc.) related to CLL not responsive to traditional
therapies

Although CLL therapy for many years consisted of
chlorambucil or other alkylating agents, several randomized
trials have demonstrated that monotherapy with fludarabine (153), bendamustine (154), or alemtuzumab (155) is
superior to this approach as indicated by improved response
rates and remission duration. However, toxicities (cytopenias, infection, infusion toxicity) are often more frequent with
these newer approaches as well. Given the more extended
experience with the purine analogs for over two decades,
combination-based approaches have been built upon them.
Fludarabine was combined with cyclophosphamide (fludarabine/cyclophosphamide) in three randomized phase
III studies of younger CLL patients, and all three demonstrated improved response and progression-free survival
(156–158). The benefit of this combination was greatest
in patients younger than 65 years. In addition, although
del(11)(q22.3) patients had inferior outcome with fludarabinebased regimens, the addition of cyclophosphamide appears
to abrogate this (158). If confirmed, this would suggest
that del(11)(q22.3) patients would benefit the most from
fludarabine/cyclophosphamide.

Leukemias

229

Rituximab was introduced for CLL in the late
1990s and had only modest activity as monotherapy in
relapsed patients. However, when given in combination with
fludarabine (159,160) or fludarabine/cyclophosphamide
(FCR) (161), significant responses and extended remissions
were observed. Studies with both fludarabine and fludarabine/cyclophosphamide have demonstrated that patients
with del(17)(p13.1) do not respond well and that patients
with IgVH unmutated disease have shorter remission
durations.
The humanized monoclonal antibody alemtuzumab
is directed against the surface antigen CD52. The broad
expression CD52 on normal lymphocytes and monocytes
is predictive of the increased neutropenia, lymphopenia,
and infectious complications, which have been observed
with alemtuzumab therapy. Although clinical activity has
been observed with alemtuzumab, its use will likely be
limited by the significant toxicity and associated immune
suppression.
Bendamustine is the most recently approved agent
for CLL treatment. Although chemical properties of bendamustine suggest it acts as an alkylating agent, preclinical
work demonstrates it has a novel mechanism of action
(162). A recent randomized study comparing bendamustine
to chlorambucil demonstrated bendamustine’s superiority
with respect to response and progression-free survival
(154). The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved
bendamustine for use in initial and salvage treatment of
CLL. However, the role of bendamustine related to highrisk interphase cytogenetics and IgVH unmutated disease
and the potential long-term risks of secondary leukemia
remain to be defined.

Treatment of Relapsed CLL
The approach to reinitiating therapy for CLL patients who
relapsed after initial therapy is similar to that applied for
initial therapy assessment. Patients need not receive therapy at the first sign of relapse. Rather, they should have
an indication for treatment, as discussed above. Patients
should have repeat interphase FISH analysis of the blood

Clinical trial is always first choice
Young patient (<70) with good performance status
•—Del(17)(p13.1)-FCR or trial followed by non-myeloablative allogeneic stem
cell transplant
•—Del(11)(q22.3)-FCR
•—Other genetic features-FR

Older patient (>70) with good performance status
•—Del(17)(p13.1)-alemtuzumab
•—Del(11)(q22.3)-PCR
•—Other genetic features FR or PCR, bendamustine

Older patient (>70) with poor performance status
•—Rituximab or chlorambucil

Figure 12.2 Treatment approach for symptomatic previously
untreated CLL at the Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio.

230

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

or marrow aspirate, because they may have acquired additional cytogenetic abnormalities such as the del(17)(p13.1).
A marrow analysis should be performed if cytopenias are
present to confirm that CLL is the cause and exclude other
potential causes, including transformed lymphoma, prolonged marrow toxicity from prior therapy, or development of treatment-related myelodysplasia. For relapsing
patients aged 70 years or older, re-treatment with the same
therapy or with an alternative antibody or investigational
agent can be considered. In general, for a patient younge
than 70 years who has experienced a good remission with
initial therapy (>12 months), an FCR regimen (161), preferably in combination with an investigational agent, is suggested. If a complete remission is obtained in patients
without a del(17)(p13.1), our approach at this point is to
observe. If a del(17)(p13.1) is present or a complete remission is not obtained, we generally consider a nonmyeloablative stem-cell transplantation.
For relapsing patients 70 years or older, we do not
administer FCR regimen due to concerns of increasing toxicity. Any patient who does not attain complete remission
following second therapy or who harbors del(17)(p13.1) at
the time of relapse should be considered as a candidate
for a reduced intensity allogeneic stem-cell transplantation.
Although transplantation is associated with more initial
treatment-related mortality, the long-term benefit of stemcell transplantation for high-risk genomic CLL makes it an
attractive option for these patients. Specifically, extended
disease-free intervals and plateau in relapse frequency
have been observed in CLL with both full and reducedintensity transplantation for CLL. Given the older age of
most CLL patients, reduced-intensity transplantations are
becoming more acceptable. In contrast, autologous stem-cell
transplantation does not offer the graft-versus-leukemia
effect of a reduced-intensity allogeneic stem-cell transplantation and is associated with a continuous risk of relapse
from CLL over time. Autologous stem-cell transplantation
is therefore not generally used.

Future Directions of CLL Therapy
There are currently multiple investigational agents in
phase I, II, and III testing for relapsed CLL. Agents such
as lenalidomide, flavopiridol, and ofatumumab have demonstrated single agent clinical activity, and are currently in
phase III registration studies for potential approval for use
in relapsed and refractory CLL patients. Other agents such
as lumiliximab and genasense have very modest clinical
activity but appear to augment the effectiveness of chemotherapy or chemoimmunotherapy. Phase III combination
studies with these agents and chemotherapy or chemoimmunotherapy are either underway or completed.
Many other therapeutic agents are currently in early
phase I/II clinical trials for CLL or will be entering the
clinic within the next year. Therapeutic antibodies or small
modular immune pharmaceuticals (SMIP™) targeting surface antigens including CD40, HLA-DR, CD19, CD20,
CD37, CD74, and CD200 are under development. Additionally, therapeutic agents targeting signal transduction pathways (HSP-90 inhibitors, AKT inhibitors, PI3K-δ inhibitors,
syk inhibitors, PKC-δ inhibitors, and PP2A activating
agents) are in early clinical development. Finally, agents
targeting epigenetic events (histone deacetylase inhibitors,

hypomethylating agents), micro-RNA directed therapy, or
innate immune activation (CpG oligonucleotides or IL21)
have promising preclinical data to support their ongoing
early clinical investigation (163,164).

Conclusions
The understanding of the biology and treatment of CLL
has significantly improved over the past two decades. With
these advances has come the identification of new biomarkers that can predict early disease progression, poor response
to therapy, and inferior survival. Concurrent with these
developments, new therapies have also emerged that are
increasing the proportion of CLL patients going into complete remission and having prolonged treatment-free intervals. Understanding the impact of these new prognostic
features and treatment approaches will be essential to
assuring optimal management of CLL patients.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This study was supported in part by National Cancer
Institute, Bethesda, Maryland (MD) grants CA16058 and
R01CA102031, PO1 CA110496, The Leukemia and Lymphoma Foundation, The D Warren Brown Foundation, and
The Coleman Leukemia Research Foundation.

REFERENCES
1. Estey E, Döhner H. Acute myeloid leukaemia. Lancet 2006;
368: 1894–907.
2. Pui CH, Robison LL, Look AT. Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. Lancet 2008; 371: 1030–43.
3. Hehlmann R, Hochhaus A, Baccarani M. Chronic myeloid
leukaemia. Lancet 2007; 370: 342–50.
4. Dighiero G, Hamblin TJ. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia.
Lancet 2008; 371: 1017–29.
5. Ries LAG, Melbert D, Krapcho M et al., eds. SEER Cancer
Statistics Review, 1975–2004, National Cancer Institute.
Bethesda, MD. http://seer.cancer.gov/csr/1975_2004/, based
on November 2007 SEER data submission, posted to the
SEER web site, 2008.
6. Sandler DP, Ross JA. Epidemiology of acute leukemia in
children and adults. Semin Oncol 1997; 24: 3–16.
7. Owen C, Barnett M, Fitzgibbon J. Familial myelodysplasia
and acute myeloid leukaemia−a review. Br J Haematol 2008;
140: 123–32.
8. Goldgar DE, Easton DF, Cannon-Albright LA et al. Systematic population-based assessment of cancer risk in firstdegree relatives of cancer probands. J Natl Cancer Inst 1994;
86: 1600–8.
9. Yuille MR, Matutes E, Marossy A et al. Familial chronic
lymphocytic leukaemia: a survey and review of published
studies. Br J Haematol 2000; 109: 794–9.
10. Conley CL, Misiti J, Laster AJ. Genetic factors predisposing
to chronic lymphocytic leukemia and to autoimmune disease. Medicine (Baltimore) 1980; 59: 323–34.
11. Cuttner J. Increased incidence of hematologic malignancies
in first-degree relatives of patients with chronic lymphocytic
leukemia. Cancer Invest 1992; 10: 103–9.
12. Raval A, Tanner SM, Byrd JC et al. Downregulation
of death-associated protein kinase 1 (DAPK1) in chronic
lymphocytic leukemia. Cell 2007; 129: 879–90.
13. Travis LB, Li C-Y, Zhang Z-N et al. Hematopoietic malignancies and related disorders among benzene-exposed workers
in China. Leuk Lymphoma 1994; 14: 91–102.

Chapter 12:
14.
15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.
21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

Kane EV, Roman E, Cartwright R et al. Tobacco and the risk
of acute leukaemia in adults. Br J Cancer 1999; 81: 1228–33.
Smith SM, Le Beau MM, Huo D et al. Clinical-cytogenetic
associations in 306 patients with therapy-related myelodysplasia or myeloid leukemia: the University of Chicago series.
Blood 2003; 102: 43–52.
Nakanishi M, Tanaka K, Shintani T et al. Chromosomal
instability in acute myelocytic leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome in patients among atomic bomb survivors.
J Radiat Res (Tokyo) 1999; 40: 159–67.
von Mühlendahl KE. Chernobyl fallout, nuclear plants and
leukaemia: review of recent literature. Eur J Pediatr 1998;
157: 602–4.
Swerdlow SH, Campo E, Harris NL et al., eds. World Health
Organization Classification of Tumours of Haematopoietic
and Lymphoid Tissues. Lyon: IARC Press, 2008.
Cheson BD, Bennett JM, Kopecky KJ et al. Revised recommendations of the International Working Group for diagnosis, standardization of response criteria, treatment outcomes,
and reporting standards for therapeutic trials in acute myeloid leukemia. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 4642–9.
Estey E. Acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndromes in older patients. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 1908–15.
Stone RM, O’Donnell MR, Sekeres MA. Acute myeloid
leukemia. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program
2004: 98–117.
Mrózek K, Bloomfield CD. Chromosome aberrations, gene
mutations and expression changes, and prognosis in adult
acute myeloid leukemia. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ
Program 2006: 169–77.
Mrózek K, Marcucci G, Paschka P et al. Clinical relevance
of mutations and gene-expression changes in adult acute
myeloid leukemia with normal cytogenetics: are we ready
for a prognostically prioritized molecular classification? Blood
2007; 109: 431–48.
Thiede C, Steudel C, Mohr B et al. Analysis of FLT3-activating
mutations in 979 patients with acute myelogenous leukemia:
association with FAB subtypes and identification of subgroups with poor prognosis. Blood 2002; 99: 4326–35.
Gale RE, Green C, Allen C et al. The impact of FLT3 internal tandem duplication mutant level, number, size, and
interaction with NPM1 mutations in a large cohort of young
adult patients with acute myeloid leukemia. Blood 2008; 111:
2776–84.
Döhner K, Schlenk RF, Habdank M et al. Mutant nucleophosmin (NPM1) predicts favorable prognosis in younger
adults with acute myeloid leukemia and normal cytogenetics: interaction with other gene mutations. Blood 2005; 106:
3740–6.
Fröhling S, Schlenk RF, Stolze I et al. CEBPA mutations in
younger adults with acute myeloid leukemia and normal
cytogenetics: prognostic relevance and analysis of cooperating mutations. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 624–33.
Whitman SP, Ruppert AS, Marcucci G et al. Long-term
disease-free survivors with cytogenetically normal acute
myeloid leukemia and MLL partial tandem duplication: a
Cancer and Leukemia Group B study. Blood 2007; 109:
5164–7.
Paschka P, Marcucci G, Ruppert AS et al. Wilms’ tumor 1
gene mutations independently predict poor outcome in
adults with cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia:
a Cancer and Leukemia Group B study. J Clin Oncol 2008;
26: 4595–602.
Baldus CD, Tanner SM, Ruppert AS et al. BAALC expression
predicts clinical outcome of de novo acute myeloid leukemia
patients with normal cytogenetics: a Cancer and Leukemia
Group B study. Blood 2003; 102: 1613–18.
Marcucci G, Maharry K, Whitman SP et al. High expression
levels of the ETS-related gene, ERG, predict adverse outcome

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.
39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

47.

Leukemias

231

and improve molecular risk-based classification of cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia: a Cancer and
Leukemia Group B study. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 3337–43.
Heuser M, Beutel G, Krauter J et al. High meningioma 1
(MN1) expression as a predictor for poor outcome in acute
myeloid leukemia with normal cytogenetics. Blood 2006;
108: 3898–905.
Paschka P, Marcucci G, Ruppert AS et al. Adverse prognostic significance of KIT mutations in adult acute myeloid
leukemia with inv(16) and t(8;21): a Cancer and Leukemia
Group B study. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 3904–11.
Löwenberg B, van Putten W, Theobald M et al. Effect of
priming with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor on the
outcome of chemotherapy for acute myeloid leukemia.
N Engl J Med 2003; 349: 743–52.
Amadori S, Suciu S, Jehn U et al. Use of glycosylated
recombinant human G-CSF (lenograstim) during and/or
after induction chemotherapy in patients 61 years of age and
older with acute myeloid leukemia: final results of AML-13,
a randomized phase III study. Blood 2005; 106: 27–34.
Smith TJ, Khatcheressian J, Lyman GH et al. 2006 update of
recommendations for the use of white blood cell growth
factors: an evidence-based clinical practice guideline. J Clin
Oncol 2006; 24: 3187–205.
Segal BH, Freifeld AG, Baden LR et al. Prevention and treatment of cancer-related infections. J Natl Compr Canc Netw
2008; 6: 122–74.
Rowe JM. Consolidation therapy: what should be the standard of care? Best Pract Res Clin Haematol 2008; 21: 53–60.
Mayer R, Davis R, Schiffer C et al. Intensive postremission
chemotherapy in adults with acute myeloid leukemia.
N Engl J Med 1994; 331: 896–903.
Bloomfield CD, Lawrence D, Byrd JC et al. Frequency of
prolonged remission duration after high-dose cytarabine
intensification in acute myeloid leukemia varies by cytogenetic subtype. Cancer Res 1998; 58: 4173–9.
Byrd JC, Dodge RK, Carroll A et al. Patients with t(8;21)
(q22;q22) and acute myeloid leukemia have superior failurefree and overall survival when repetitive cycles of high-dose
cytarabine are administered. J Clin Oncol 1999; 17: 3767–75.
Byrd JC, Ruppert AS, Mrózek K et al. Repetitive cycles of
high-dose cytarabine benefit patients with acute myeloid
leukemia and inv(16)(p13q22) or t(16;16)(p13;q22): results
from CALGB 8461. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 1087–94.
Farag SS, Ruppert AS, Mrózek K et al. Outcome of induction
and postremission therapy in younger adults with acute
myeloid leukemia with normal karyotype: a Cancer and
Leukemia Group B study. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 482–93.
Cassileth PA, Harrington DP, Appelbaum FR et al. Chemotherapy compared with autologous or allogeneic bone
marrow transplantation in the management of acute myeloid leukemia in first remission. N Engl J Med 1998;
339: 1649–56.
Suciu S, Mandelli F, de Witte T et al. EORTC and GIMEMA
Leukemia Groups. Allogeneic compared with autologous
stem cell transplantation in the treatment of patients younger
than 46 years with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in first
complete remission (CR1): an intention-to-treat analysis
of the EORTC/GIMEMA AML-10 trial. Blood 2003; 102:
1232–40.
Harousseau J-L, Cahn J-Y, Pignon B et al. Comparison of
autologous bone marrow transplantation and intensive chemotherapy as postremission therapy in adult acute myeloid
leukemia. Blood 1997; 90: 2978–86.
Gale R, Hills R, Kottaridis PD et al. No evidence that
FLT3 status should be considered as an indicator for transplantation in acute myeloid leukemia (AML): an analysis of
1135 patients, excluding promyelocytic leukemia, from the
UK MRC AML10 and 12 trials. Blood 2005; 106: 3658–65.

232

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

48. Schlenk RF, Döhner K, Krauter J et al. Mutations and treatment outcome in cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia. N Engl J Med 2008; 358: 1909–18.
49. Wang ZY, Chen Z. Acute promyelocytic leukemia: from
highly fatal to highly curable. Blood 2008; 111: 2505–15.
50. Sanz MA. Treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program 2006: 147–55.
51. Powell BL, Moser B, Stock W et al. Arsenic trioxide consolidation improves event-free and overall survival among
patients with newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia: North American intergroup protocol c9710. Ann Hematol 2008; 87(Suppl 1): S77–S78.
52. Bourgeois E, Chevret S, Sanz M et al. Long-term follow-up
of APL treated with ATRA and chemotherapy (CT) including incidence of late relapses and overall toxicity. Blood
2003; 102: 140a–1a.
53. Sanz MA, Martin G, González M et al. Risk-adapted treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia with all-trans-retinoic
acid and anthracycline monochemotherapy: a multicenter
study by the PETHEMA group. Blood 2004; 103: 1237–43.
54. Estey E, Garcia-Manero G, Ferrajoli A et al. Use of all-trans
retinoic acid plus arsenic trioxide as an alternative to
chemotherapy in untreated acute promyelocytic leukemia.
Blood 2006; 107: 3469–73.
55. Lo-Coco F, Ammatuna E. Front line clinical trials and minimal residual disease monitoring in acute promyelocytic
leukemia. Curr Top Microbiol Immunol 2007; 313: 145–56.
56. Tallman MS. Treatment of relapsed or refractory acute
promyelocytic leukemia. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol 2007;
20: 57–65.
57. Breems DA, Van Putten WLJ, Huijgens PC et al. Prognostic
index for adult patients with acute myeloid leukemia in first
relapse. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 1969–78.
58. Wong R, Shajahan M, Wang X et al. Prognostic factors for
outcomes of patients with refractory or relapsed acute myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplastic syndromes undergoing allogeneic progenitor cell transplantation. Biol Blood
Marrow Transplant 2005; 11: 108–14.
59. Blum W, Marcucci G. New approaches in acute myeloid
leukemia. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol 2008; 21: 29–41.
60. List AF, Spier C, Greer J et al. Phase I/II trial of cyclosporine
as a chemotherapy-resistance modifier in acute leukemia.
J Clin Oncol 1993; 11: 1652–60.
61. Russell NH. Biology of acute leukaemia. Lancet 1997; 349:
118–22.
62. Castor A, Nilsson L, Åstrand-Grundström I et al. Distinct
patterns of hematopoietic stem cell involvement in acute
lymphoblastic leukemia. Nat Med 2005; 11: 630–7.
63. Kong Y, Yoshida S, Saito Y et al. CD34+CD38+CD19+ as
well as CD34+CD38−CD19+ cells are leukemia-initiating
cells with self-renewal capacity in human B-precursor ALL.
Leukemia 2008; 22: 1207–13.
64. Quijano CA, Moore D II, Arthur D et al. Cytogenetically
aberrant cells are present in the CD34+CD33–38–19– marrow
compartment in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
Leukemia 1997; 11: 1508–15.
65. Cox CV, Evely RS, Oakhill A et al. Characterization of acute
lymphoblastic leukemia progenitor cells. Blood 2004; 104:
2919–25.
66. Cox CV, Martin HM, Kearns PR et al. Characterization of a
progenitor cell population in childhood T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Blood 2007; 109: 674–82.
67. le Viseur C, Hotfilder M, Bomken S et al. In childhood acute
lymphoblastic leukemia, blasts at different stages of immunophenotypic maturation have stem cell properties. Cancer
Cell 2008; 14: 47–58.
68. Shivakumar R, Tan W, Wilding GE et al. Biologic features
and treatment outcome of secondary acute lymphoblastic
leukemia−a review of 101 cases. Ann Oncol 2008; 19: 1634–8.

69. Mullighan CG, Miller CB, Radtke I et al. BCR-ABL1 lymphoblastic leukaemia is characterized by the deletion of
Ikaros. Nature 2008; 453: 110–14.
70. O’Neil J, Look AT. Mechanisms of transcription factor
deregulation in lymphoid cell transformation. Oncogene
2007; 26: 6838–49.
71. Mullighan CG, Goorha S, Radtke I et al. Genome-wide
analysis of genetic alterations in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. Nature 2007; 446: 758–64.
72. Bousquet M, Broccardo C, Quelen C et al. A novel PAX5ELN fusion protein identified in B-cell acute lymphoblastic
leukemia acts as a dominant negative on wild-type PAX5.
Blood 2007; 109: 3417–23.
73. Graux C, Cools J, Michaux L et al. Cytogenetics and molecular genetics of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia: from
thymocyte to lymphoblast. Leukemia 2006; 20: 1496–510.
74. Aifantis I, Raetz E, Buonamici S. Molecular pathogenesis
of T-cell leukaemia and lymphoma. Nat Rev Immunol 2008;
8: 380–90.
75. Baak U, Gökbuget N, Orawa H et al. Thymic adult T-cell
acute lymphoblastic leukemia stratified in standard- and
high-risk group by aberrant HOX11L2 expression: experience of the German multicenter ALL study group. Leukemia
2008; 22: 1154–60.
76. Baldus CD, Martus P, Burmeister T et al. Low ERG and
BAALC expression identifies a new subgroup of adult acute
T-lymphoblastic leukemia with a highly favorable outcome.
J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 3739–45.
77. Szczepański T. Why and how to quantify minimal residual
disease in acute lymphoblastic leukemia? Leukemia 2007;
21: 622–6.
78. Brüggemann M, Raff T, Flohr T et al. Clinical significance
of minimal residual disease quantification in adult patients
with standard-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Blood 2006;
107: 1116–23.
79. Larson S, Stock W. Progress in the treatment of adults with
acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Curr Opin Hematol 2008;
15: 400–7.
80. Schultz KR, Bowman WP, Slayton W et al. Improved early
event free survival (EFS) in children with Philadelphia
chromosome-positive (Ph+) acute lymphoblastic leukemia
(ALL) with intensive imatinib in combination with high
dose chemotherapy: Children’s Oncology Group (COG)
study AALL0031. Blood 2007; 110: 9a.
81. Thomas DA, Kantarjian HM, Ravandi F et al. Long-term
follow-up after frontline therapy with hyper-CVAD and
imatinib mesylate regimen in adults with Philadelphia (Ph)
positive acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). Blood 2007;
110: 10a.
82. Potenza L, Luppi M, Riva G et al. Efficacy of imatinib mesylate as maintenance therapy in adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia in first complete remission. Haematologica
2005; 90: 1275–7.
83. de Labarthe A, Rousselot P, Huguet-Rigal F et al. Imatinib
combined with induction or consolidation chemotherapy in
patients with de novo Philadelphia chromosome-positive
acute lymphoblastic leukemia: results of the GRAAPH-2003
study. Blood 2007; 109: 1408–13.
84. Wetzler M, Stock W, Donohue KA et al. Autologous stem
cell transplantation (SCT) following sequential chemotherapy
and imatinib for adults with newly diagnosed Philadelphia
chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+
ALL)—CALGB study 10001. Blood 2007; 110: 843a.
85. Yanada M, Takeuchi J, Sugiura I et al. High complete remission rate and promising outcome by combination of imatinib
and chemotherapy for newly diagnosed BCR-ABL-positive
acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a phase II study by the
Japan Adult Leukemia Study Group. J Clin Oncol 2006;
24: 460–6.

Chapter 12:
86.

87.

88.

89.

90.

91.

92.

93.

94.

95.

96.

97.

98.

99.

100.

101.
102.

Wassmann B, Pfeifer H, Goekbuget N et al. Alternating
versus concurrent schedules of imatinib and chemotherapy
as front-line therapy for Philadelphia-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL). Blood 2006; 108: 1469–77.
Lee K-H, Lee J-H, Choi S-J et al. Clinical effect of imatinib
added to intensive combination chemotherapy for newly
diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Leukemia 2005; 19: 1509–16.
Delannoy A, Delabesse E, Lhéritier V et al. Imatinib and
methylprednisolone alternated with chemotherapy improve
the outcome of elderly patients with Philadelphia-positive
acute lymphoblastic leukemia: results of the GRAALL
AFR09 study. Leukemia 2006; 20: 1526–32.
Ottmann OG, Wassmann B, Pfeifer H et al. Imatinib compared with chemotherapy as front-line treatment of elderly
patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL). Cancer 2007; 109: 2068–76.
Vignetti M, Fazi P, Cimino G et al. Imatinib plus steroids
induces complete remissions and prolonged survival in elderly
Philadelphia chromosome-positive patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia without additional chemotherapy: results
of the Gruppo Italiano Malattie Ematologiche dell’Adulto
(GIMEMA) LAL0201-B protocol. Blood 2007; 109: 3676–8.
Pfeifer H, Wassmann B, Pavlova A et al. Kinase domain
mutations of BCR-ABL frequently precede imatinib-based
therapy and give rise to relapse in patients with de novo
Philadelphia-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+
ALL). Blood 2007; 110: 727–34.
Hu Y, Liu Y, Pelletier S et al. Requirement of Src kinases
Lyn, Hck and Fgr for BCR-ABL1-induced B-lymphoblastic
leukemia but not chronic myeloid leukemia. Nat Genet 2004;
36: 453–61.
Mishra S, Zhang B, Cunnick JM et al. Resistance to imatinib
of bcr/abl p190 lymphoblastic leukemia cells. Cancer Res
2006; 66: 5387–93.
Ottmann O, Dombret H, Martinelli G et al. Dasatinib
induces rapid hematologic and cytogenetic responses in adult
patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia with resistance or intolerance to imatinib:
interim results of a phase 2 study. Blood 2007; 110: 2309–15.
Foa R, Vignetti M, Vitale A et al. Dasatinib as front-line
monotherapy for the induction treatment of adult and elderly
Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients: interim
analysis of the GIMEMA prospective study LAL1205. Blood
2007; 110: 10a.
Ottman OG, Larson RA, Kantarjian HM et al. Nilotininb
in patients (pts) with refractory/relapsed Philadelphia
chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL)
who are resistant or intolerant to imatinib. Blood 2007;
110: 828a.
Cohen MH, Johnson JR, Justice R et al. FDA drug approval
summary: nelarabine (Arranon®) for the treatment of
T-cell lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma. Oncologist 2008;
13: 709–14.
Sallan SE. Myths and lessons from the adult/pediatric interface in acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Hematology Am Soc
Hematol Educ Program 2006: 128–32.
Ribera J-M, Oriol A, Sanz M-A et al. Comparison of the
results of the treatment of adolescents and young adults
with standard-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia with the
Programa Español de Tratamiento en Hematología pediatricbased protocol ALL-96. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 1843–9.
Usvasalo A, Räty R, Knuutila S et al. Acute lymphoblastic
leukemia in adolescents and young adults in Finland.
Haematologica 2008; 93: 1161–8.
Ferry JA. Burkitt’s lymphoma: clinicopathologic features and
differential diagnosis. Oncologist 2006; 11: 375–83.
Thomas DA, Faderl S, O’Brien S et al. Chemoimmunotherapy with hyper-CVAD plus rituximab for the treatment of

103.

104.
105.

106.

107.

108.

109.

110.
111.

112.
113.
114.

115.

116.

117.

118.

119.
120.

121.

Leukemias

233

adult Burkitt and Burkitt-type lymphoma or acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Cancer 2006; 106: 1569–80.
Oriol A, Ribera J-M, Bergua J et al. High-dose chemotherapy
and immunotherapy in adult Burkitt lymphoma: comparison of results in human immunodeficiency virus-infected
and noninfected patients. Cancer 2008; 113: 117–25.
Stein A, Forman SJ. Allogeneic transplantation for ALL in
adults. Bone Marrow Transplant 2008; 41: 439–46.
Douer D, Yampolsky H, Cohen LJ et al. Pharmacodynamics
and safety of intravenous pegaspargase during remission
induction in adults aged 55 years or younger with newly
diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Blood 2007; 109:
2744–50.
Wetzler M, Sanford BL, Kurtzberg J et al. Effective asparagine depletion with pegylated asparaginase results in
improved outcomes in adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia:
Cancer and Leukemia Group B study 9511. Blood 2007;
109: 4164–7.
Faderl S, Gandhi V, O’Brien S et al. Results of a phase 1-2
study of clofarabine in combination with cytarabine (ara-C)
in relapsed and refractory acute leukemias. Blood 2005;
105: 940–7.
Karp JE, Ricklis RM, Balakrishnan K et al. A phase 1 clinicallaboratory study of clofarabine followed by cyclophosphamide for adults with refractory acute leukemias. Blood
2007; 110: 1762–9.
Druker BJ, Guilhot F, O’Brien SG et al. Five-year follow-up
of patients receiving imatinib for chronic myeloid leukemia.
N Engl J Med 2006; 355: 2408–17.
Savona M, Talpaz M. Getting to the stem of chronic myeloid
leukaemia. Nat Rev Cancer 2008; 8: 341–50.
Baccarani M, Saglio G, Goldman J et al. Evolving concepts
in the management of chronic myeloid leukemia: recommendations from an expert panel on behalf of the European
LeukemiaNet. Blood 2006; 108: 1809–20.
O’Brien S, Berman E, Bhalla K et al. Chronic myelogenous
leukemia. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2007; 5: 474–96.
Apperley JF. Part I: mechanisms of resistance to imatinib in
chronic myeloid leukaemia. Lancet Oncol 2007; 8: 1018–29.
Giles FJ, DeAngelo DJ, Baccarani M et al. Optimizing
outcomes for patients with advanced disease in chronic
myelogenous leukemia. Semin Oncol 2008; 35(Suppl 1):
S1–S17.
Tsang J, Rudychev I, Pescatore SL. Prescription compliance
and persistency in chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML)
and gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) patients (pts) on
imatinib (IM). J Clin Oncol 2006; 24(Suppl): 330s.
Cortes J, Baccarani M, Guilhot F et al. First report of the
TOPS study: a randomized phase III trial of 400 mg vs
800 mg imatinib in patients with newly diagnosed, previously untreated CML in chronic phase using molecular endpoints. Haematologica 2008; 93(Suppl 1): 160.
le Coutre P, Ottmann OG, Giles F et al. Nilotinib (formerly
AMN107), a highly selective BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitor, is active in patients with imatinib-resistant or -intolerant
accelerated-phase chronic myelogenous leukemia. Blood 2008;
111: 1834–9.
Hochhaus A, Baccarani M, Deininger M et al. Dasatinib
induces durable cytogenetic responses in patients with chronic
myelogenous leukemia in chronic phase with resistance or
intolerance to imatinib. Leukemia 2008; 22: 1200–6.
Schiffer CA. BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitors for chronic
myelogenous leukemia. N Engl J Med 2007; 357: 258–65.
Oki Y, Kantarjian HM, Gharibyan V et al. Phase II study of
low-dose decitabine in combination with imatinib mesylate
in patients with accelerated or myeloid blastic phase of
chronic myelogenous leukemia. Cancer 2007; 109: 899–906.
Cortes J, Quintás-Cardama A, Garcia-Manero G et al. Phase
1 study of tipifarnib in combination with imatinib for

234

122.

123.

124.

125.

126.
127.

128.

129.
130.
131.

132.

133.

134.

135.

136.
137.
138.

139.

140.

141.

142.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia in chronic
phase after imatinib failure. Cancer 2007; 110: 2000–6.
Cortes J, Jabbour E, Daley GQ et al. Phase 1 study of lonafarnib (SCH 66336) and imatinib mesylate in patients with
chronic myeloid leukemia who have failed prior singleagent therapy with imatinib. Cancer 2007; 110: 1295–302.
Bocchia M, Gentili S, Abruzzese E et al. Effect of a p210 multipeptide vaccine associated with imatinib or interferon in
patients with chronic myeloid leukaemia and persistent
residual disease: a multicentre observational trial. Lancet
2005; 365: 657–62.
Neviani P, Santhanam R, Oaks JJ et al. FTY720, a new alternative for treating blast crisis chronic myelogenous leukemia
and Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphocytic
leukemia. J Clin Invest 2007; 117: 2408–21.
Danilov AV, Danilova OV, Klein AK et al. Molecular pathogenesis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Curr Mol Med
2006; 6: 665–75.
Seiler T, Döhner H, Stilgenbauer S. Risk stratification in chronic
lymphocytic leukemia. Semin Oncol 2006; 33: 186–94.
Shanafelt TD, Kay NE. The clinical and biologic importance
of neovascularization and angiogenic signaling pathways
in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Semin Oncol 2006; 33:
174–85.
Calin GA, Croce CM. Genomics of chronic lymphocytic
leukemia microRNAs as new players with clinical significance. Semin Oncol 2006; 33: 167–73.
Raval A, Byrd JC, Plass C. Epigenetics in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Semin Oncol 2006; 33: 157–66.
Ghia P, Caligaris-Cappio F. The origin of B-cell chronic
lymphocytic leukemia. Semin Oncol 2006; 33: 150–6.
Klein U, Tu Y, Stolovitzky GA et al. Gene expression profiling of B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia reveals a homogeneous phenotype related to memory B cells. J Exp Med
2001; 194: 1625–38.
Damle RN, Wasil T, Fais F et al. Ig V gene mutation status
and CD38 expression as novel prognostic indicators in
chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Blood 1999; 94: 1840–7.
Hamblin TJ, Davis Z, Gardiner A et al. Unmutated Ig VH
genes are associated with a more aggressive form of chronic
lymphocytic leukemia. Blood 1999; 94: 1848–54.
Diehl LF, Ketchum LH. Autoimmune disease and chronic
lymphocytic leukemia: autoimmune hemolytic anemia, pure
red cell aplasia, and autoimmune thrombocytopenia. Semin
Oncol 1998; 25: 80–97.
Tsimberidou AM, Keating MJ. Richter syndrome: biology,
incidence, and therapeutic strategies. Cancer 2005; 103:
216–28.
Tsimberidou AM, Keating MJ. Richter’s transformation in
chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Semin Oncol 2006; 33: 250–6.
Rai KR, Sawitsky A, Cronkite EP et al. Clinical staging of
chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Blood 1975; 46: 219–34.
Döhner H, Stilgenbauer S, Benner A et al. Genomic aberrations and survival in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. N Engl
J Med 2000; 343: 1910–16.
Kröber A, Seiler T, Benner A et al. VH mutation status,
CD38 expression level, genomic aberrations, and survival in
chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Blood 2002; 100: 1410–16.
Hamblin TJ, Orchard JA, Ibbotson RE et al. CD38 expression
and immunoglobulin variable region mutations are independent prognostic variables in chronic lymphocytic leukemia,
but CD38 expression may vary during the course of the
disease. Blood 2002; 99: 1023–9.
Matrai Z, Lin K, Dennis M et al. CD38 expression and Ig
VH gene mutation in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Blood 2001; 97: 1902–3.
Lin K, Sherrington PD, Dennis M et al. Relationship between
p53 dysfunction, CD38 expression, and IgVH mutation in
chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Blood 2002; 100: 1404–9.

143.

144.

145.

146.

147.

148.

149.

150.

151.

152.

153.

154.

155.

156.

157.

158.

159.

Jelinek DF, Tschumper RC, Geyer SM et al. Analysis of
clonal B-cell CD38 and immunoglobulin variable region
sequence status in relation to clinical outcome for B-chronic
lymphocytic leukaemia. Br J Haematol 2001; 115: 854–61.
CLL Trialists’ Collaborative Group. Chemotherapeutic options
in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: a meta-analysis of the randomized trials. J Natl Cancer Inst 1999; 91: 861–8.
Hallek M, Cheson BD, Catovsky D et al. Guidelines for the
diagnosis and treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia: a
report from the International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (IWCLL) updating the National Cancer
Institute-Working Group (NCI-WG) 1996 guidelines. Blood
2008; 111: 5446–56.
Byrd JC, Gribben JG, Peterson BL et al. Select highrisk genetic features predict earlier progression following
chemoimmunotherapy with fludarabine and rituximab in
chronic lymphocytic leukemia: justification for risk-adapted
therapy. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 437–43.
Döhner H, Fischer K, Bentz M et al. p53 gene deletion predicts
for poor survival and non-response to therapy with purine
analogs in chronic B-cell leukemias. Blood 1995; 85: 1580–9.
Chevallier P, Penther D, Avet-Loiseau H et al. CD38 expression and secondary 17p deletion are important prognostic
factors in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Br J Haematol
2002; 116: 142–50.
el Rouby S, Thomas A, Costin D et al. p53 gene mutation
in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia is associated with
drug resistance and is independent of MDR1/MDR3 gene
expression. Blood 1993; 82: 3452–9.
Lozanski G, Heerema NA, Flinn IW et al. Alemtuzumab is
an effective therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia with
p53 mutations and deletions. Blood 2004; 103: 3278–81.
Grever MR, Lucas DM, Dewald GW et al. Comprehensive
assessment of genetic and molecular features predicting outcome in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia: results
from the US Intergroup Phase III Trial E2997. J Clin Oncol
2007; 25: 799–804.
Eichhorst BF, Busch R, Hopfinger G et al. Fludarabine
plus cyclophosphamide versus fludarabine alone in first-line
therapy of younger patients with chronic lymphocytic
leukemia. Blood 2006; 107: 885–91.
Rai KR, Peterson BL, Appelbaum FR et al. Fludarabine compared with chlorambucil as primary therapy for chronic
lymphocytic leukemia. N Engl J Med 2000; 343: 1750–7.
Knauf WU, Lissichkov T, Aldaoud A et al. Bendamustine
versus chlorambucil in treatment-naive patients with B-cell
chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL): results of an international phase III study. Blood 2007; 110: 609a.
Hillmen P, Skotnicki AB, Robak T et al. Alemtuzumab compared with chlorambucil as first-line therapy for chronic
lymphocytic leukemia. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 5616–23.
Eichhorst BF, Busch R, Hopfinger G et al. Fludarabine plus
cyclophosphamide versus fludarabine alone in first-line
therapy of younger patients with chronic lymphocytic
leukemia. Blood 2006; 107: 885–91.
Flinn IW, Neuberg DS, Grever MR et al. Phase III trial of
fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide compared with fludarabine for patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia: US Intergroup Trial E2997. J Clin Oncol 2007;
25: 793–8.
Catovsky D, Richards S, Matutes E et al. Assessment of
fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide for patients with chronic
lymphocytic leukaemia (the LRF CLL4 Trial): a randomised
controlled trial. Lancet 2007; 370: 230–9.
Byrd JC, Peterson BL, Morrison VA et al. Randomized phase
2 study of fludarabine with concurrent versus sequential treatment with rituximab in symptomatic, untreated patients with
B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia: results from Cancer and
Leukemia Group B 9712 (CALGB 9712). Blood 2003; 101: 6–14.

Chapter 12:
160. Byrd JC, Rai K, Peterson BL et al. Addition of rituximab to
fludarabine may prolong progression-free survival and overall survival in patients with previously untreated chronic
lymphocytic leukemia: an updated retrospective comparative analysis of CALGB 9712 and CALGB 9011. Blood 2005;
105: 49–53.
161. Wierda W, O’Brien S, Wen S et al. Chemoimmunotherapy
with fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab for
relapsed and refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. J Clin
Oncol 2005; 23: 4070–8.

Leukemias

235

162. Leoni LM, Bailey B, Reifert J et al. Bendamustine (Treanda)
displays a distinct pattern of cytotoxicity and unique mechanistic features compared with other alkylating agents. Clin
Cancer Res 2008; 14: 309–17.
163. Grever MR, Lucas DM, Johnson AJ et al. Novel agents and
strategies for treatment of p53-defective chronic lymphocytic
leukemia. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol 2007; 20: 545–56.
164. Wierda WG. Current and investigational therapies for
patients with CLL. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ
Program 2006: 285–94.

13
1
Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphomas
Jean-François Larouche and Bertrand Coiffier

these pathogens has not been observed, and therefore, their
role in the increased incidence of lymphoma remains
uncertain.
Exposure to environmental agents such as herbicides
or hair dyes has recently been identified as a risk factor
for development of lymphoma, but the overall contribution
of such agents still needs to be defined. Immunosuppression
as in solid organ or bone marrow transplantation is a wellestablished risk factor for NHL. Also, NHL is found to be
associated with autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid
arthritis, Sjögren’s syndrome, Hashimoto thyroiditis, and
systemic lupus. However, immunosuppression for organ
transplantation or autoimmune disorders cannot explain
the rise in NHL incidence.
On the other hand, the outcome of lymphoma treatment improved from the 1990s to the early 21st century.
American data showed an increase in the 10-year relative
survival from 39.4% to 56.3% in all age groups and all
subtypes of NHL (2).

Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas (NHLs) are a heterogeneous
group of cancers arising from B or T lymphocytes, also
rarely from NK cells. This heterogeneity results from the
numerous histological entities, the lymphoma’s location in
nodal or extranodal sites, its capacity to remain localized
or to disseminate throughout the body, and the patients’
age and associated diseases. The prognostic implications
related to these variables must be known before therapeutic
options are proposed. Because of the multiplicity of lymphoma entities and of the possible lymphoma manifestations, it is difficult to accurately predict the outcome of
therapy in individual patients. Defining subgroups among
large numbers of patients with histologically similar lymphomas and similar clinical manifestations is, however,
likely to lead to the identification of meaningful prognostic
indicators.
Over the past 15 years, new information from
research has led to the recognition of new entities, definition
of better prognostic parameters, and determination of standard treatments. This evolution has enabled the development of a risk-adapted therapy based on lymphoma cell
characteristics, spread of the tumor, and the patient’s
response to this tumor. The main aim of lymphoma treatment should be to provide cure or, at least for patients
older than 70 years, a long-term, disease-free survival.

CLINICAL PRESENTATION AND STAGING
A patient is suspected of having a NHL in three clinical
situations: 1) the presence of one or several lymph nodes
that grow more or less rapidly, 2) an extranodal tumor that
has either a typical aspect such as lymphomatous skin
lesions, a typical localization (e.g., conjunctiva), or that
looks like any solid tumor, or 3) systemic manifestations
such as fever, weight loss, or severe fatigue. In any case,
a definitive diagnosis of lymphoma requires the full characterization of the tumor. A substantial tissue specimen
must be obtained to establish the diagnosis by pathological
examination including immunophenotyping and the presence of CD20 or CD3 antigen qualifying the lymphoma as
B-cell or T-cell proliferation. Additional analyses of fresh
cells or cryopreserved specimens may be useful for obtaining or confirming the diagnosis in difficult cases and for
establishing biological and molecular prognostic factors:
immunoglobulin or T-cell receptor (TCR) gene rearrangement, chromosomal abnormalities, oncogene expressions,
and proliferation-associated parameters. Whenever possible,
and in any questionable case, the diagnosis should be
confirmed by one or several pathologists experienced in
lymphoid malignancies.
Clinical and laboratory investigations should be performed as soon as possible. The presence or absence of
constitutional symptoms should be noted: fever >38°C,
night sweats, and/or unintentional weight loss of greater

EPIDEMIOLOGY
The incidence of lymphoma is steadily increasing worldwide for the past 30 years. Age-adjusted incidence rates
among 100,000 people in the United States were 11.1, 16.7,
and 20.4 in 1975, 1987, and 2004, respectively. Lymphoma
is the sixth most common cancer in the United States (1).
European studies show similar result.
Among elderly people, this increase may be explained
by age-related immunodeficiency. The relative importance
of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in this increase
is probably minor, because in Europe, only 1% of all lymphomas occur in patients with acquired immune deficiency
syndrome (AIDS). Other viruses such as Epstein-Barr virus
(EBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), human T-cell lymphoma/
leukemia virus (HTLV-I), and human herpes virus (HHV-8)
certainly have a role in causing lymphoma, but the different
steps from viral infection to lymphoma’s development are
unknown and factors other than viral infection may have
a role. In other entities, stimulation by bacteria such as
Helicobacter pylori or Borrelia burgdorferi has been recognized
as the initial trigger. However, an increased incidence of
236

Chapter 13:

than 10% of body weight over six months. After assessing
the patient’s general condition (performance status, PS)
and possible underlying diseases, care should be taken to
look for nodal and extranodal dissemination by detailed
clinical examination and computed tomography (CT) scan
of the abdomen and thorax. Specialized evaluation of the
gastrointestinal tract is indicated in patients with gastrointestinal symptoms. Tumor burden should be evaluated to
aid in assessing prognosis and to determine therapeutic
efficacy. Bone marrow biopsy is mandatory to assess marrow
infiltration. Although leptomeningeal infiltration is found
at diagnosis in 5% or fewer of the patients with aggressive
presentation, we recommend a systematic evaluation of
cerebrospinal fluid in all clinically aggressive lymphomas
because of the adverse prognosis of such involvement and
the specificity of the treatment required. In addition to
routine laboratory examinations (complete blood count,
uric acid level, assessment of heart, kidney, and liver functions), serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and serum β2microglobulin levels should be determined to complete the
prognostic staging. HIV serology should be performed
in all patients because of the specificity of management
in these patients. We also recommend hepatitis B and C
serology, as it can influence the management (3,4). Other
tests may be done on a research basis but have yet to prove
their clinical interest (5).
Positron emission tomography (PET) is a noninvasive
metabolic imaging that uses a radiopharmaceutical to target a physiologic process. The most widely used agent is
8-fluoro-deoxyglucose (FDG), which is an analog of glucose.
PET shows high sensitivity and specificity in the evaluation
of most lymphomas. Some subtype as diffuse large B-cell
lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, and mantle cell lymphoma,
are considered more FDG avid than others (marginal zone
lymphoma, small lymphocytic lymphoma, and T-cell lymphoma). Sensitivity and specificity of PET scan for initial
staging are around 80% to 90%. PET in initial staging is
currently not standard because it alters the stage and
therapy in only a minority of patients (6). However, pretherapy PET is strongly encouraged because it helps in the
interpretation of post-therapy PET. The clearest role of PET
is response assessment at the conclusion of therapy, especially for lymphoma with a curative potential. Use of PET
for monitoring response to therapy is under study in clinical
trials (7). The combination of PET with CT scan as a single
modality (PET/CT) represents a major advance in the field
of lymphoma imaging, the results of which is better than
that of both tests separately.

PROGNOSTIC PARAMETERS AND PROGNOSTIC INDEX
Independently of lymphoma entity, various clinical and biological features have been identified and associated with
response to treatment and survival. Features most frequently
associated with the ability to achieve complete remission
and long-term survival reflect tumor’s growth and invasive
potential, patient’s response to tumor, or patient’s ability to
tolerate intensive therapy (8,9).

Parameters Associated with High Tumor Burden
A large tumor mass has long been recognized as a significant adverse parameter even though the assessment

Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphomas

237

methods vary from one study to another. Parameters associated with large tumor mass and a poorer outcome are
high number of nodal sites, high number of extranodal
sites, certain specific locations, large tumor diameter, disseminated stage, high serum LDH level, and high β2microglobulin level.

Ann Arbor Stage
Stage was originally described for Hodgkin’s disease but
was subsequently applied to NHL as well. However, the
Ann Arbor stage was described for what is essentially a
nodal disease and is somewhat difficult to apply to NHL
because of the extranodal primary localizations and the
weak correlation between extranodal involvement and outcome in some lymphoma subtypes. Stage, however, is
related to outcome, and stage I patients have a longer
survival than do stage IV patients. Moreover, disseminated
stage seems to be the only parameter associated with a
high risk of late relapse.

Number of Extranodal Sites
The number of lymphoma localizations depends on specialized examinations used to detect them (i.e., computed
tomography, PET scan, endoscopy, serous fluid examinations, and biological examinations). Presence of more
than one extranodal site has been associated with poor
prognosis and has proved to be one of the strongest
prognostic factors in aggressive lymphomas and follicular
lymphomas.

Largest Diameter of the Tumor
A poor outcome has been associated with larger tumors,
but the cutoff varies from 5 to 10 cm, depending on the
study. Large tumors are thought to be associated with an
increased risk of developing aggressive cell clones, but this
adverse risk factor often does not persist in multiparametric
analyses (10).

Specific Extranodal Localizations
Lymphoma cells may appear in any organ or lymph node.
Although some of these extranodal sites are associated
with a poorer outcome in retrospective studies, multiparametric analyses have always shown that poorer outcome
was a function of the number of extranodal sites rather
than secondary to a specific location (10).
Patients with bone marrow involvement have a
poorer outcome. Bone marrow involvement is present in
more than 70% of patients with follicular lymphoma (FL),
small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), or mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), but these tumors may not modify the prognosis. However, bone marrow involvement in patients
with Burkitt lymphoma (BL) or lymphoblastic lymphoma
(LL) has a considerably worse prognosis. Only 20% to 25%
of patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL)
have bone marrow involvement at the time of diagnosis,
but these patients have poorer responses to therapy and
shorter survival than those without bone marrow involvement. For DLBCL patients, bone marrow infiltration was
subdivided into infiltration by large cells, similar to those
seen in lymph nodes, and by small cells. Patients with

238

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

DLBCL and bone marrow infiltration with small cells have
a higher risk of relapse but a longer survival than patients
with large cell involvement.
Gastrointestinal involvement is the most common
extranodal site, but its prognostic significance as well as
its optimal therapy are still matters of debate. This reflects
the presence among these localizations of different lymphoma entities, mostly MALT lymphoma and DLBCL, but
also BL or MCL. In fact, treatment of these extranodal
locations should not be based on specific location but on
the lymphoma histology.
CNS lymphomas occur in four different subgroups
of patients: those with meningeal localization, those with
a spinal extradural involvement with cord compression,
those with primary DLBCL of cerebral parenchyma, and
lymphoma in immunocompromised patients, especially
HIV-positive patients. We consider all these presentations
as poor prognosis.

Lactic Dehydrogenase
LDH above normal levels has been identified as the major
prognostic factor in lymphoma patients in almost all published prognostic analyses (10). Moreover, the higher the
LDH level, the poorer is the outcome.

b2-Microglobulin Level
Adverse prognosis associated with a high β2-microglobulin
serum level in lymphoma was recognized years ago, but
this parameter has not been widely used. The putative
importance of the β2-microglobulin level has been recognized and applied to prognostic analyses in several centers
(11), and, like LDH level, it predicts the risk of relapse for
patients. However, few physicians consider it in clinical
practice, and this parameter is not really use except in
follicular lymphoma (12).

Parameters Associated with Patient Response
to the Tumor
These parameters include B symptoms, performance status,
serum albumin, and hemoglobin levels. They probably
reflect the same phenomenon, cytokine secretion by either
neoplastic cells or the patient’s immune cells in response
to the tumor. Earlier studies focused on B symptoms; the
more recent ones, such as the International Prognostic
Index, have focused on performance status, whereas statisticians tend to prefer either serum albumin or hemoglobin
levels because these two parameters are more reproducible
and less affected by other independent parameters such as
transient infection (9).

Parameters Associated with Patient Ability
to Tolerate Treatment
Outcome for patients may be different, depending on
comorbidities not related to lymphoma and on their age
at time of diagnosis. In a Southwest Oncology Group
study, older patients had worse outcomes because they
responded less well to treatment and relapsed more often.
This poorer outcome was related to a decrease in chemotherapy dose intensity. In other studies, more elderly
patients died during initial courses of treatment, whereas

Table 13.1
Standards

Definition of “Elderly” Patients According to Different

Standard

Definition

Elderly

Biologic age

Decrease in physiologic reserve which
decrease capacity to respond
adequately to stress
Decline of glomerular filtration and
tubular secretion rates <50%
Menopause in women
Capacity to tolerate allogeneic marrow
transplantation
Capacity to tolerate autologous stem
cell transplantation
Modification of survival curves in
International Prognostic Index

Unknown

Renal function
Hormonal status
Treatment
Treatment
Prognosis

>70
>50–55
>50
>60–65
>60–65

those who completed chemotherapy and responded did
not have higher relapse rate. Elderly patients are more
likely to develop complications after chemotherapy because
of their age and the possible existence of comorbidities.
The cutoff age for old patients with DLBCL is between 60
and 65 years (10). However, if tolerance to treatment
decreases with age, it is not perfectly correlated to the
numeric age but rather with biologic age as defined in
Table 13.1.

Prognostic Index
A number of investigators have used the subset of clinical
features that retained independent significance in multivariate analysis of their patients to develop prognostic
factor models predictive of an individual patient’s risk of
shortened survival. Although the specific clinical features
used in the prognostic factor models differ, each model
incorporates features that reflect the volume of disease and
extent of tumor involvement at diagnosis, confirming the
primary importance of these factors (13).
In 1990, there was a consensus that an international
classification system based on clinically relevant prognostic
factors in DLBCL should be developed (10). This International Prognostic Index (IPI) is based on age, tumor stage,
serum LDH level, performance status, and number of
extranodal disease sites. IPI renders possible to identify
four risk groups corresponding to the number of adverse
parameters. In young patients, an age-adjusted IPI based
on tumor stage, serum LDH level, and performance status
identified four risk groups. In both models, the increased
risk of death was the result of both a lower rate of complete
responses and a higher rate of relapses. The IPI may also
be effectively applied to patients presenting with lymphoma subtypes other than DLBCL (14). Other indexes
developed for follicular lymphoma include the Follicular
Lymphoma International Prognostic Index (FLIPI), mantle
cell lymphoma, or peripheral T-cell lymphoma, but currently these have not been proven clearly superior to IPI
(15). IPI and age-adjusted IPI were proven to be significantly more accurate than Ann Arbor classification in
predicting long-term survival. Today, one of these indexes
should be used in the design of therapeutic trials and in
the selection of appropriate therapeutic approaches for
individual patients.

Chapter 13:

New Prognostic Parameters
The IPI incorporates in its definition only surrogate markers of profound alterations in cellular biology of tumor
cells. Since its description, and in the future, biological or
genetic alterations have been, and will be, described that
may replace all or some of the classical parameters. These
putative parameters include gene alterations of cell-cycle
regulator proteins (p53, p27, cyclin D), apoptotic proteins
(survivin, bcl-2), cytokines (TNF, IL-6, IL-10), adhesion
molecules (CD44, ICAM-1), and angiogenic peptides
(VEGF) (16). Currently, bcl-2 protein expression is one of
the best biological parameters associated with outcome (17).
Gene microarray analysis is a promising tool to characterize genetic abnormalities related to lymphoma and this
microenvironment in the function of prognosis (18–20).
Finally, proteomic analysis has the potential to reveal new
biomarkers of prognostic significance (21).

HISTOLOGICAL CLASSIFICATIONS OF NHL
Many histological classifications have been proposed, with
the Rappaport classification (1956), the Kiel classification and
the Working Formulation for Clinical Usage (1982) being the
most frequently used. Based on morphological, immunological, and genetic characterization of the tumor, the Revised
European–American Classification for lymphoid neoplasms
(REAL classification) has been proposed by the International
Lymphoma Study Group. This classification has evolved to
the World Health Organization (WHO) classification, which
is the classification commonly used nowadays (Table 13.2).
A complete histological description may be found in the
original description (22).
The incidence of each type of lymphoma may vary
from country to country and center to center according
to referral policy. Figure 13.1 shows the frequency
observed among patients treated during nine years in
Lyon (Centre Hospitalier Lyon-Sud) and in an international review in eight centers around the world (23,24).
The frequency is not different from that observed in
Europe or North America. In Japan and other Eastern
countries, some entities such as peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCLs) and adult T-cell lymphoma/leukemia (ATL)
are more frequently observed, whereas others such as
follicular lymphoma (FL) are rare.
Indolent lymphomas have a propensity for increasing
their histological aggressiveness as they recur. This may be
translated as transformation into a proliferation of large
cells from low-grade lymphoma, such as in FL, marginal
zone lymphoma (MZL), small lymphocytic lymphoma
(SLL), or lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (LPL). This transformation is often associated with a large mass, a decrease
in the performance status, a high LDH level, and additional genetic abnormalities. These abnormalities occur in
key steps regulating cell cycle, proliferation, and apoptosis
(CDKN2A, CKKN2B, c-myc, TP53, bcl-2, etc.). This leads to
disease refractoriness to treatment and poor outcome.

Mature B-cell Lymphomas (Table 13.2)
Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
Small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) represents the lymphoma counterpart of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL),

Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphomas

239

Table 13.2 World Heath Organization (WHO) Classification of
Lymphoid Tumorsa
B cell neoplasms
Precursor B-cell neoplasm
Precursor B-cell lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma
Mature B-cell neoplasms
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia(CLL)/small lymphocytic
lymphoma (SLL)
B cell prolymphocytic leukemia
Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (LPL)/Waldenström
macroglobulinemia
Splenic marginal zone lymphoma
Hairy cell leukemia
Plasma cell neoplasms: plasma cell myeloma,
plasmacytoma, monoclonal immunoglobulin deposition
diseases, heavy-chain diseases
Extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (MALT lymphoma)
Nodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma
Follicular lymphoma (FL)
Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL)
Diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCL)
Subtypes
Mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma
Intravascular large B-cell lymphoma
Primary effusion lymphoma
Burkitt Lymphoma/leukemia (BL)
T cell neoplasms
Precursor T-cell neoplasm
Precursor T-cell lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma (LL)
Mature T-cell and NK cell neoplasms
T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia
T-cell large granular lymphocyte leukemia
Aggressive NK cell leukemia
Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma
Extranodal NK/T cell lymphoma, nasal type
Enteropathy-type T-cell lymphoma
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma
Subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma
Blastic NK cell lymphoma
Mycosis fungoides/Sézary syndrome (CTCL)
Primary cutaneous CD30-positive T-cell lymphoproliferative
disorders: primary cutaneous anaplasic large cell lymphoma,
lymphomatoid papulosis, borderline lesions
Angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma
Peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCL), unspecified
Systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL)
Hodgkin’s lymphoma (Hodgkin’s disease)
Nodular lymphocyte predominance Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Classical Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Nodular sclerosis Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Mixed cellularity Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Lymphocyte-rich classic Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Lymphocyte depleted Hodgkin’s lymphoma
a

Clinical entities in italics will be discussed in other chapters of this book.

which is about three to seven times more frequent than
SLL (25). SLL is what remains of the small lymphocytic
subtype of the Working Formulation after the now welldefined subtypes, mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) and
marginal zone lymphoma (MZL), have been dropped. It
represents 4% to 5% of lymphomas. Lymph node involvement is characteristics. There is usually effacement of
lymph node architecture. The infiltrate consists predominantly of small lymphocytes, which appear slightly larger
than a normal lymphocyte with a slightly more abundant

240

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

ALCL
SLL/LPL 1%

PTCL
7%

Others
2%

6%
DLBCL
35%

MZL
5%

MALT
8%

CTCL
1%
HIV
2%
PTLD
1%

MCL
6%

LL
1%

DLBCL
FL
MCL
BL
LL
PTLD
HIV
CTCL
MALT
MZL
SLL/LPL
ALCL
PTCL
Others

FL
23%

BL
2%

Figure 13.1 Frequency of major lymphoma subtypes observed in Centre Hospitalier Lyon-Sud (Lyon, France) among 3267 patients referred between
1990 and 2007. Acute and chronic lymphocytic leukemias and plasma cell disorders are not included. Abbreviations: ALCL, systemic anaplastic large
cell lymphoma; BL, Burkitt lymphoma/leukemia; CTCL, mycosis fungoides/Sézary syndrome; DLBCL, diffuse large B-cell lymphomas; FL, follicular
lymphoma; HIV, human immunodeficiency virus-related lymphomas; LL, precursor T-cell lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma; LPL, lymphoplasmacytic
lymphoma; MALT, extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma; MCL, mantle cell lymphoma; MZL, marginal zone lymphoma; PTCL, peripheral
T-cell lymphomas; PTLD, post-transplantation lymphomas; SLL, small lymphocytic lymphoma.

basophilic cytoplasm and clumped chromatin. There are
also some large lymphoid cells (prolymphocytes and
paraimmunoblasts), which are grouped together in pseudofollicles. Few mitoses are also seen. Tumor cells express
B cell-associated antigens and are CD5+, CD19+, CD23+,
CD20 (weak), CD43+, FMC7−, CD10−, CD79a+, surface IgM
or IgM and IgD (weak), and cyclin D1–.
SLLs are heterogeneous in their clinical picture,
response to treatment and outcome, and may comprise several entities. SLLs are characterized as mentioned earlier by
nodal involvement. Patients are usually asymptomatic, and
the diagnosis is made following the discovery of enlarged
lymph nodes. General symptoms (fever, night sweats, or
weight loss) are infrequent. A high proportion of SLL presents infiltration of blood and bone marrow. By definition,
infiltration of the blood must be minimal, less than 5000
lymphocytes/μL; otherwise, the condition becomes CLL.
Extranodal infiltration is possible but unusual. A small M
component may be found in some patients. Anemia or
thrombocytopenia can be found, either from bone marrow
involvement or by autoimmune phenomenon. Blood abnormalities related to autoimmunity seem to have a better
prognosis (26). Hypogammaglobulinemia may be observed,
especially with advanced disease, and can be related to
infectious complications.
A number of parameters with prognostic significance have been discovered in the past as clinical stage

(Binet or Rai) and bone marrow infiltration pattern. In
the past decade, new analysis became available in clinical practice: CD38 expression, ZAP-70, IgVH mutational
status, and cytogenetics (27). Most of them have been
evaluated in CLL, but recent data suggest that SLLs have
less cytogenetic abnormalities, more CD38 expression,
and more mutated immunoglobulin variable heavy-chain
region gene status than CLL (25). Patients with del11q
represent a subgroup characterized clinically by extensive
lymphadenopathy.
Few prospective trials have been designed specifically
for patients with SLL, and the best therapeutic approach
is not known. Actual therapies are based on CLL, as it is
considered the same disease. Response to treatment and
survival look similar (25). Overall median survival for
patients with SLL/CLL is around 10 years but range from
2 to 20 years. Asymptomatic patients with low tumor burden
disseminated disease can be followed with no treatment,
as delay in therapy does not have impact on survival. Usual
indications for treatment include disease related-symptoms,
symptomatic cytopenia, progressive disease, and repeated
infections. For many years, the treatment for most patients
was single-agent chemotherapy (chlorambucil or cyclophosphamide) or a multidrug regimen with or without doxorubicin (cyclophosphamide + vincristine + prednisone ±
doxorubicin). However, very few patients reached complete
remission, but most responded to treatment, and they had

Chapter 13:

Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphomas

241

Overall survival

1.0

Cumulative proportion surviving

0.8
Failure-free survival
0.6

0.4

0.2

0.0

0

12

24

36
Months

48

a median time to failure (TTF) of two to five years. Introduction of purine analogs such as fludarabine showed
improve overall response rate, complete response rate, and
progression-free survival with no significant improvement
in overall survival. Combination of fludarabine with cyclophosphamide (FC) showed improved results when compared with single-agent treatment. Addition of rituximab
to FC improved results compared with FC, at least in CLL
(phase III study results not yet published). Another antibody directed against CD52, alemtuzumab, showed clinical
activity in CLL but has been least effective in patients with
adenopathy, especially the large ones. New promising
agents include lenalidomide and ofatumumab (fully
humanized anti-CD20). More intensive therapy with total
body irradiation and autologous stem cell transplantation
(ASCT) or allogeneic stem cell transplantation may be proposed for young patients with histological transformation
and for relapsing patients, but their role has not yet been
defined.

Marginal Zone Lymphomas
Marginal zone lymphomas (MZL) regroup tumors that
have recently been recognized, such as extranodal marginal
zone B-cell lymphoma of mucosa associated lymphoid tissue
(MALT lymphoma), splenic marginal zone lymphoma
(with or without villous lymphocytes) (SMZL), and nodal
marginal zone lymphoma. Despite a common cell of origin
and similarities concerning a possible chronic antigenic
stimulation, important differences in clinical presentation
and evolution justify to consider each of these three entities
separately, as it is made in WHO classification.
MALT Lymphomas. MALT lymphomas represent
around 5% to 8% of NHL but up to half of primary gastric

60

72

Figure 13.2 Overall survival and failurefree survival of 34 patients with mantle cell
lymphoma treated with combination
chemotherapy and rituximab followed by highdose therapy and autologous stem cell
transplant. Source: From Ref. 69.

lymphoma (23). Tumor cells appear to display a tissuespecific homing pattern. Proliferation seems to be dependent
on the presence of activated, antigen-driven T lymphocytes, at least in initial stages. MALT lymphoma is characterized by a cellular heterogeneity including marginal zone
centrocyte-like cells, monocytoid B cells, small lymphocytes,
and plasma cells. Occasionally, large cells can be seen.
Reactive follicles are usually present, with neoplastic cells
occupying the marginal zone and/or the interfollicular
region. In epithelial tissues, the marginal zone cells infiltrate
the epithelium, forming lymphoepithelial lesions. Some
degree of plasma differentiation is also often seen. Tumor
cells express surface immunoglobulin (sIg), often cytoplasmic immunoglobulin (cIg), B-cell-associated antigens but
not CD5, CD10, CD23, or CD43. Rearrangement of bcl-1 or
bcl-2 is not seen.
If trisomy 3 (+3) occurs as the most frequent aberration (60%), this abnormality can be identified either as a
complete +3 or as a partial trisomy 3 (trisomy 3q, tetrasomy 3q). Translocation (11;18)(q21;q21), involving API2
and MALT1 genes and t(1;14)(p22;q32), involving bcl-10
region are specific to MALT lymphoma. Translocation
(11;18) is commonly associated with MALT lymphoma
(13–35%) but t(1;14) is rare (1%). Other cytogenetic abnormalities are nonspecific being observed in other lymphomas. Translocation (14;18)(q32;q21), identical to the one
seen in FL but involving the MALT1 gene and not the bcl-2
gene, is seen in 20% of MALT lymphoma.
Most patients with MALT lymphoma present with
localized stage extranodal disease. Although the stomach
is the most common site, many others have also been
described such as lung, skin, thyroid, orbit, salivary glands,
and other parts of the gastrointestinal tract. Many of them
have histories of chronic antigenic stimulation or autoimmune disease (Sjögren’s syndrome and Hashimoto’s

242

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

100
CHOP + MoAb

Percentage

80

ProMACE

60

40
CHOP
20

0

N
179
425
356
2

Death
18
189
226
4

4-Year
estimate
91%
79%
69%
6

8

10

Years after registration

Figure 13.3 Follicular lymphoma and overall survival according to different treatment program. Abbreviations: CHOP, Cyclophosphamide,
Hydroxydaunorubicin (Adriamycin), Oncovin (Vincristine), Prednisone/Prednisolone; ProMACE; MoAb, monoclonal antibody. Source: From Ref. 49.

thyroiditis). Infection with the following bacteria has been
associated with a specific site of presentation: H. pylori and
stomach, Borrelia burgdorferi and skin, Chlamydia psittaci and
ocular adnexa, Campylobacter jejuni and small intestine.
Dissemination of the tumor to other MALT sites, spleen or
bone marrow, is seen at diagnosis in 30% of the cases but
is more frequent in recurring disease (28). As in other
indolent lymphomas, transformation into a large cell tumor
can occur at time of relapse.
As MALT lymphomas are often localized, patients
have usually been treated with surgery or local radiotherapy, depending on the disease site, but no prospective trial has validated these options. Relapses were
observed in the same site or at other extranodal sites (28).
Because of the diversity of locations, few, if any, studies
looked at specific treatment except for gastric MALT lymphoma. Patients with gastric MALT lymphoma, without
lymph node involvement on endoscopic ultrasonography,
may be treated successfully with antibiotics (29,30). With
two antibiotics (clarythromycin and amoxicillin or metronidazole) plus a proton pump inhibitor for 14 days,
H. pylori is eliminated in 90% of the patients, and complete regression of the lymphoma is observed in nearly
80% of cases. However, some molecular abnormalities
may persist, but do not require treatment. The influence
of this treatment on survival has to be determined. Presence of t(11;18) is associated with lower response to antibiotics and more risk of relapse (31). The indolent nature
of this lymphoma makes a conservative approach advisable, with antibiotic therapy as initial treatment being the
choice. For patients with more advanced disease or in partial response or recurrence, chemotherapies such as chlorambucil, fludarabine, or rituximab yield good responses.

Nowadays, surgery is not recommended because gastrectomy may severely impair the patient’s quality of life
(29). Radiation therapy is a good choice for localized
disease relapsing after first-line chemotherapy because of
its efficacy and the near absence of long-term adverse
effect (32).
Patients with nongastric MALT lymphoma associated with an infection can show response to antibiotics
but success rate is unknown. Patients with localized nongastric MALT may be treated with surgery, local radiotherapy, or chemotherapy. Very few, if any, relevant
prospective trials have been published. The choice of treatment depends on the site of the disease and consequences
of treatment. Using chlorambucil (16 mg/m2/day, five days
every month) for 6 to 12 months or rituximab 375 mg/m2
IV every week for four weeks seems a good option. An
overall response rate of 75% can be achieved. However, in
patients with large tumor mass or an important large cell
contingent, CHOP chemotherapy must be used. Rituximab
has proven its efficacy in this lymphoma and may be
added to chemotherapy. Patients with MALT lymphoma
have a favorable outcome with five-year overall survival
around 90%.
Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma. Patients with SMZL
with or without villous lymphocytes are often elderly and
present with massive splenomegaly, blood and bone marrow infiltration, but without lymph node or other visceral
location (33). Immunologic cytopenia or M-component is
frequent. An association with hepatitis C virus (HCV)
infection has been shown. Tumor cells express surface
immunoglobulin and sometimes cytoplasmic immunoglobulin (IgM, IgD), B-cell-associated antigens but not CD5,

Chapter 13:

Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphomas

243

• Avoid chemotherapy as long as possible

Rituximab

Rituximab

Radioimmunotherapy

0

2

3.5

Other
biologic
agent

4.5

Combination
chemotherapy

5.5

7

Years

• Try to reach CR and have a long duration CR
R-CHOP

Salvage R-chemotherapy
+ autologous transplant

Biologic agent

0

6–8

12–15

CD10, or CD23. They usually express CD11c, but they lack
CD25 and CD103 (34). Splenectomy in case of large splenomegaly and delayed treatment when asymptomatic are
the best solutions (35). When treatment is needed, HCVpositive patients can be treated with interferon ± ribavirin.
When chemotherapy is considered, alkylating agents
(chlorambucil or cyclophosphamide), fludarabine or rituximab, alone or in combination, can be used. Transformation
to DLBCL can be seen in up to 10% of cases. The course
of this disease is indolent with a median overall survival
over 10 years.
Nodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma. Half of nodal MZL
are seen in patients with MALT lymphoma and lymph
node spread of the disease. However, tumors with the
same features have been reported with primary localized
or disseminated nodal involvement, and association with
HCV has been noted. Patients with nodal MZL need to be
treated, but no prospective study has yet described the best
therapeutic modalities. We recommend radiation therapy
for localized disease and CHOP plus rituximab for patients
with disseminated disease. HDT with ASCT may be considered for patients with a high contingent of large cells
or in relapse. A retrospective study from Lyon showed that
these patients have a short TTF but may experience a long
survival with five-year overall survival around 50% to 70%
(30,36).

Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma/Waldenström
Macroglobulinemia
Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (LPL)/Waldenström macroglobulinemia (WM) is a rare disease characterized as a malignant lymphoplasmo-proliferative disorder with monoclonal
IgM production. There has been some debate whether WM
should apply only to LPL with serum IgM concentration

Years

Figure 13.4 Philosophies in treatment of
follicular lymphoma.

superior to 30 g/L. However, irrespective of IgM concentration, LPL/WM is considered as a single clinicopathologic
entity by most experts (37). Bone marrow infiltration is
virtually present in all cases. It commonly involves lymph
nodes and spleen. Extranodal infiltrates may occur but
should be distinguished from MALT lymphoma. The immunophenotypic profile of lymphoplasmacytic cells in LPL/
WM includes expression of pan-B cell antigen (CD19, CD20,
CD22, CD79) with light-chain restricted surface IgM. CD10,
CD23, and CD5 are usually negative, but 5% to 20% of
patients appear to express CD5. Translocation t(9;14) involving PAX 5 gene has been reported in up to 50% of patients
with LPL but apparently restricted to patients with nodal
involvement without serum monoclonal protein.
Some patients present with hyperviscosity symptoms
(headache, blurred vision, dizziness, and stroke) related to
the monoclonal IgM, others with organomegaly (lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, and hepatomegaly), anemia-related
symptoms or constitutional symptoms. Chronic oozing of
blood from nose is frequent. Peripheral neuropathy, cold
agglutinin disease, and cryoglobulinemia can also occur.
Asymptomatic patients should be followed without
treatment. Patients with symptoms related to the monoclonal protein may benefit plasma exchange. Systemic
therapies include alkylating agents (chlorambucil), purine
nucleoside analogues (fludarabine or cladribine), and rituximab. Abrupt increases in serum IgM level have been
reported following initiation of rituximab. There are no
data to recommend one treatment over the other and
benefit of combination therapy is unknown. Other treatment options include thalidomide and interferon alpha.
Lenalidomide, bortezomib, alemtuzumab, and many others
are under study. Autologous and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation can be considered in special circumstances, but experience is limited with these
modalities.

244

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Follicular Lymphoma
Follicular lymphoma is the second most common type of
lymphoma and represents 20% to 25% of all lymphomas.
They are composed of centrofollicular cells, a mixture of
centrocytes (small cleaved centrofollicular cells) and centroblasts (large non-cleaved cells), interspersed with follicular
dendritic cells. Centrocytes typically prevail and centroblasts are in the minority. The pattern of proliferation is
usually follicular, but diffuse areas may be present and
may sometimes predominate. The proportion of centroblasts and the size of centrocytes vary in different lymph
nodes from the same patient. Histological subgroups with
different outcomes have been described according to the
percentage of each of the constituents, but these were
considered irrelevant because the lymphoma growth is a
continuous process, and it is difficult for this grading to
be replicated by different groups of pathologists (23,38).
However, cases with an important diffuse component
(>50%) of large cells (grade 3b) have a worse outcome,
similar to DLBCL and should be treated as DLBCL. Tumor
cells are usually SIg+, B-cell associated antigen+ (CD19+,
CD20+, or CD22+), CD10+, CD5−, and CD23−. Translocation
t(14;18) involving the rearrangement of bcl-2 gene is present in 85% of the patients, resulting in abnormal expression
of this anti-apoptosis gene. Histological transformation
occurs in up to 70% of the patients at time of first progression or later. It is often associated with a succession of multiple genetic alterations, particularly mutations involving
p53 and deletions of p16 (39).
Most patients have widespread disease at diagnosis
and truly localized disease is rare. Few patients present
with B symptoms or altered general status at diagnosis.
Involved sites are predominantly lymph nodes, spleen, and
bone marrow, and occasionally peripheral blood or extranodal sites. Bone marrow is involved in at least 60% of
cases. Extranodal site involvement, other than bone marrow or blood, is often associated with more aggressive
disease or histological progression. Nearly all patients have
circulating bcl-2-rearranged cells.
Prognostic factors have been identified to predict
survival of patients with follicular lymphoma. Follicular
Lymphoma International Prognostic Index (FLIPI), a clinical
prognostic index, divide patients into three different risk
groups with overall 5- and 10-year survival ranging from
52% to 91% and 36% to 71%, respectively (40). FLIPI is
composed of five prognostic factors: age more than
60 years, Ann Arbor stage III-IV, hemoglobin level inferior
at 120 g/L, more that four nodal areas involved, and elevated serum LDH. Biological prognostic factors also exist,
and recent advances identified the importance of follicular lymphoma microenvironment response in follicular
lymphoma evolution (20,41).
Ten percent of all FL patients have a localized stage
without large mass. With involved field radiotherapy,
more than 95% of them achieve complete response but
most of them relapse, sometimes years after the first
manifestation. In one study, no treatment at all was associated with a similar outcome than radiation therapy (42).
Chemotherapy must be used in these patients only after
recurrence.
Patients with advanced FL are generally considered
to have incurable disease. Treatment can have an impact
on symptoms, progression-free survival, and perhaps

overall survival. Because many patients are asymptomatic
at diagnosis, observation without treatment is an option,
as no curative treatment exists. A randomized trial from
United Kingdom showed no difference in overall survival
between a watch and wait policy and immediate systemic
treatment in patients with low tumor burden asymptomatic advanced FL (43). A recommended approach for
patient with low tumor burden disease is observation during the first six months after diagnosis, and in instance of
rapid disease progression or symptomatic disease, initiation of treatment. Otherwise, a “watch and wait” strategy
is currently the best one for these patients.
At least 50% of FL patients need to be treated at
diagnosis. Treatment of choice is still a matter of discussion,
especially with the introduction of new therapies. Monoclonal antibodies, as single agent or in combination with
chemotherapy, have considerably changed FL treatment in
the last decade. In front-line therapy, single-agent antiCD20 rituximab achieve an overall response rate of 75%,
with half of them being complete (44). It should be noted
that maximal response can be delayed for up to six months.
However, duration of response is usually only two years,
not longer than watch and wait policy. Thus, longer treatment duration has been developed (see paragraph on
maintenance), but no data show that this strategy is better
than doing nothing until progression then chemotherapy
associated with rituximab.
Another option is to use immunochemotherapy,
a combination of a monoclonal antibody as rituximab,
and chemotherapy. No single chemotherapy agent (e.g.,
chlorambucil) or combination regimens (e.g., cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone ± doxorubicine, CVP, or
CHOP) have shown survival advantage over the other.
However, it can be argued that patients who achieve complete response at the end of first-line treatment have a
longer survival, a longer time to treatment failure (TTF),
and a lower probability of histological transformation at
recurrence. As the achievement of complete response may
happen more frequently with more aggressive regimen,
CHOP is our preferred combination (Fig. 13.4). Fludarabine-based combinations allow a high response rate in relapsing and first-line patients, but TTF is not different from that
obtained with other regimens, and this treatment is associated with more immunosuppression as well as difficulties
in harvesting peripheral blood progenitor cells. Rituximab is
associated with better results in untreated patient as well
as in relapse setting. Four randomized trials have shown
the benefit of adding rituximab to different chemotherapy
combinations in untreated patient with FL (Table 13.3)
(45–48). In these studies, rituximab was used with different
regimens: CVP, CHOP, MCP (mitoxantrone, chlorambucil,
and prednisolone), or CHVP-IFN (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, etoposide, prednisolone plus interferon-2a). All these
studies demonstrated improvement in overall response rate,
time to progression, and overall survival even with short
follow-up considering FL. With these good results, rituximab
with combination chemotherapy is now a standard in FL
first-line treatment (Fig. 13.3). The regimen used in our institution is R-CHOP. However, as mentioned earlier, rituximab
alone can be considered in certain circumstances.
For patients relapsing following first-line therapy
without rituximab, a new chemotherapy regimen with the
addition of rituximab is indicated (Fig. 13.5). If the front-line

Chapter 13:

Table 13.3

Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphomas

245

Randomized Studies Comparing Chemotherapy to Rituximab Plus Chemotherapy in Patients with Follicular Lymphoma

Reference

Setting

Treatment

Number of
patients

Marcus et al. (46)
and Hersey and
Zhang (140)
Hiddemann
et al. (47)
Herold et al. (48)

First line

CVP vs.
R-CVP

321

53

First line

CHOP vs.
R-CHOP
MCP vs.
R-MCP
CHVP+I vs.
R-CHVP+I
CHOP vs.
R-CHOPb
FCM vs.
R-FCMb

428

Salles et al. (45)

First line
First line

Van Oers et al. (53) Relapse/refractory
Forstpointner
et al. (54)

Relapse/refractory
mantle cell and
follicular
lymphoma

Median Overall response
follow-up rate/complete
(months) response rate (%)

Median progression-free
survival (months)

Improvement in
overall survival

57/10 vs. 81/41

15 vs. 34a

Yes

18

90/17 vs. 96/20

31 vs. not reacheda

Yes

201

47

75/25 vs. 92/50

28.8 vs. not reacheda

Yes

358

60

85/59 vs. 94/75

35 vs. not reacheda

465

39

75/16 vs. 85/30

20 vs. 33a

Yes (in high risk
patients)
No

147

18

58/13 vs. 79/33

10 vs. 16a

Yes

a

Statistically significant.
Second randomization for rituximab maintenance.

b

Table 13.4

Randomized Studies of Rituximab (R) Maintenance in Follicular Lymphoma

References

Setting

Treatment

Hainsworth et al. (51)

Relapse after chemotherapy
induction with R
single-agent
First line or relapse/
refractory induction with
R single-agent
Relapse/refractory induction
with CVP or FC

Observation vs. R
maintenance

114

41

7.4 vs. 31a

No

Observation vs. R
maintenance

202

35

12 vs. 23a

No

Observation vs. R
weekly × 4 every
6 months × 4
Observation vs. R
every 3 months
for 2 years
Observation vs. R
weekly × 4 at 3
and 9 months
post induction

322

NA

2 year estimated PFS:
42% vs. 74%a

No

334

33

23 vs. 52a (subgroup with
R-CHOP induction)

Yes (for the
entire cohort)

176

26

26 vs. not reacheda
(subgroup of FL with
R-FCM induction)

No

Ghielmini et al. (52)

Hochster et al. (142)

Van Oers et al. (53)

Forstpointner
et al. (54)

Relapse/refractory
induction with CHOP or
R-CHOP
Mantle cell and follicular
lymphoma relapse/
refractory with FCM or
R-FCM induction

Number of Median Median progression-free
patients follow-up survival (months)
(months)

Overall survival

a

Statistically significant.

therapy included rituximab, the benefit of rituximab in
second line combination is unclear, but it is justify using
it again if initial results were good. Single-agent therapy
using rituximab is still an option even if already given
before, with overall response rate up to 50%.
Rituximab maintenance after induction treatment
in relapsed FL was studied by many, following singleagent rituximab, chemotherapy, or immunochemotherapy
(Table 13.4). Following single-agent rituximab induction,
maintenance improved progression-free survival but with
no impact on time to next chemotherapy-based treatment
and survival (51,52). Two groups studied rituximab maintenance following immunochemotherapy induction. Improvement in progression-free survival was seen in both studies

and even survival in one of them (53,54). With these results,
two-year rituximab maintenance is recommended by many
in relapse setting following immunochemotherapy. However, optimal duration of maintenance is unknown. Also,
rituximab maintenance following immunochemotherapy in
untreated patients is of unknown benefit, and a study in
progress should answer the question.
High-dose therapy with ASCT has been used for
several years in relapsing patients with either bone marrow
or peripheral blood stem cells. It has enabled a significant
prolongation of TTF over that obtained with standard treatments and even survival in one study (55,56). Currently,
the use of rituximab in salvage regimen allows an in vivo
purge and the reinjection of lymphoma-free stem cells.

246

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Because of the activity of rituximab in first-line patients,
this procedure will remain a good salvage possibility but
not a standard first-line treatment. However, better results
are achieved when high-dose therapy is done early in treatment plan, as following first relapse in eligible patients.
The use of allogeneic stem cell transplantation is still a
matter of debate, offering possibilities of long-term survival,
but at the expense of high treatment related morbidities
and mortalities. Interesting results with less early treatment mortalities are seen with nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen. However, graft-versus-host disease remains a
concern.
Radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies are formed by
conjugating a radioisotope to a monoclonal antibody and
allowed delivery of radiation directly to the tumor. CD20
antigen remains the target of choice up to now. Two agents
are approved for the treatment of NHL: 131iodine-labeled
tositumomab (Bexxar) and 90yttrium ibritumomab (Zevalin).
Good response rates were seen when used in relapsed or
refractory FL even when patients were rituximab refractory
(57,58). Introduction to initial therapy has been tried with
interesting results (59). Their use in a consolidation strategy
after first- and second-line therapy or part of high-dose
therapy conditioning regimen is under study. Radioimmunoconjugates have shown efficacy in FL, but the best time
to use them is still unknown.
Interferon-α (IFNα) recombinant has been used in
association with either an initial chemotherapy regimen or
as maintenance in responding patients. Some studies have
shown disease-free and overall survival advantage, but
with toxicities precluding its use in clinical practice, especially with the introduction of well-tolerated therapies as
rituximab (60).
All patients eventually progress and die of their disease, 40% to 70% after histological transformation, with a
median survival at least 15 years in recent series (61,62).
Things may change again in the near future with the
introduction of novel therapies.
Follicular lymphoma is characterized by the presence
of bcl-2 gene rearrangement in more than 70% of the cases.
It has been assumed that longer CR duration would result
from the disappearance of this lymphoma marker, a status
defined as a molecular response. However, molecular
response studied in blood did not always correlate with
clinical response and molecular response has been observed
in patients with persisting enlarged lymph nodes. If patients
in molecular response tend to have a longer TTF regardless
of the clinical response, the presence of bcl-2-rearranged
cells must be considered as a surrogate marker of tumor
burden. In patients with disappearance of the bcl-2 gene
rearrangement in blood and bone marrow, the number
of lymphoma cells is below the detection power of PCR
techniques. However, it is not synonymous with cure.

Mantle Cell Lymphoma
Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is a rare tumor comprising
5% to 8% of lymphomas. The tumor is composed exclusively of monomorphous small to medium-sized lymphoid
cells with dispersed chromatin, scant pale cytoplasm, and
inconspicuous nucleoli. The nuclei are irregular or cleaved
but may be rounded. Usually mitoses are infrequent. The
large blastoid cell variant has larger nuclei with more

dispersed chromatin and a high proliferation fraction. Proliferation is usually diffuse or vaguely nodular. Less commonly, a pure mantle zone pattern may be observed.
Tumor cells are sIgM+, usually IgD+, B-cell-associated antigen+, CD5+, CD10–, CD23–, FMC7+, and CD43+. The translocation t(11;14) involving the immunoglobulin heavy
chain locus and the bcl-1 locus is present in 70% of cases
by conventional cytogenetics (nearly all cases when studied
by FISH) and results in over-expression of the PRAD1/
CCND1 gene, a cell-cycle regulatory protein that encodes
for cyclin D1. The diagnosis may be confirmed by the
immunoexpression of cyclin D1.
This lymphoma occurs more frequently in older
adults, with predominance in men. It is usually widely
spread at diagnosis, with involvement of lymph nodes,
spleen, bone marrow, peripheral blood, and extranodal
sites, especially gastrointestinal tract (lymphomatous polyposis). Its clinical course is initially moderately aggressive
but becomes progressively more so with time.
MCL patients do not respond very well to current
therapeutic options (63). They often present partial regression of the lymphoma for 6–18 months and then progress,
and die, for a median overall survival of three to four
years. Recent data suggest however an improvement with
a median overall of about five years (64). CHOP combined
to rituximab in first-line patients was shown to be associated with a high response rate but not a longer survival than other regimens (65). Rituximab alone has been
associated with good results in relapsing patients (66).
Combination with high-dose aracytine might be more
interesting than CHOP but is certainly more toxic (67).
High-dose therapy with ASCT in patients responding to a
combination regimen associated with rituximab is certainly
a promising approach (68) (Fig. 13.2).
Outside randomized prospective trials, the following
strategy is recommended: patients with localized disease
may be treated with chemotherapy (R-CHOP) followed
by involved field radiotherapy. Elderly patients with
advanced disease should be treated with R-CHOP or, if
there is any contraindication to anthracycline, with R-FC
or rituximab, ifosfamide, plus etoposide (70) young
patients may be treated with R-CHOP or a combination
including aracytine and rituximab and, in instances of
good response, high-dose therapy. Whatever the initial
treatment, however, these patients will eventually progress
and become resistant to chemotherapy.

Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) comprises 40%
of all lymphomas. It encompasses various histological
subtypes, none of which optimally defined, and is often
heterogeneous in morphology, genetics, and clinical presentation. These lymphomas are composed of large B cells
with a round or variably cleaved nucleus, often with basophilic cytoplasm, and fairly marked mitotic activity. In
most cases, the large cells are described as centroblasts
(large cleaved cells). Other cell types are observed, such
as large multilobated cells, large anaplastic B cells, or
small noncleaved non-Burkitt cells (Burkitt-like lymphoma).
Some variants may show abundant small reactive T cells
and histiocytes or intravascular proliferation, which can
cause diagnostic problems. Primary mediastinal large

Chapter 13:

B-cell lymphomas are composed of large cells with nuclei
of variable appearance but clear cytoplasm surrounding
by fibrosis. In most cases, it is still difficult if not impossible to subclassify these tumors. Distinction among
morphologic variant of DLBCL has generally met poor
intraobserver and interobserver reproducibility. Tumor
cells are sIg±, cIg±, B-cell-associated antigens+, CD45+, CD5±,
and CD10±. The bcl-2 gene is rearranged in 20% of the
cases and c-myc in some cases. An anomaly of the long
arm of chromosome 3 has been described and associated
with bcl-6 rearrangement. Gene expression profiling
(GEP), which allows to study thousand of genes expression
at the same time, has been use in patients with DLBCL
and showed two major patterns of gene expression. One
group displays a germinal center like cell (GCC) signature and the other displays an activated B-cell (ABC)
like signature. Their prognosis in terms of overall survival is markedly different with better results in GCC
group (71).
Patients usually present with a rapidly enlarging
nodal or extranodal mass. Up to 40% of cases are extranodal and all body sites may be involved. Disease is
localized in 30% of the cases. Some locations are frequently
associated with large mass, particularly mediastinum and
abdomen.
About 70% of DLBCL patients who reach complete
response may be cured, in contrast to almost none of those
failing to do so. The ultimate aim then must be to reach
complete response. Choice of therapy should be based on
prognostic index such as IPI, alone or associated with new
interesting parameters (10,16,18). Only some relapsing
patients may be cured with salvage regimens, and therefore, cure must be provided with the first-line treatment
advocating management in specialized centers.
Patients with early stage disease (stage I or II nonbulky, without adverse prognostic factors) have good prognosis: >80% to 90% complete response rate, <20% relapse
rate, and 70% to 80% 10-year survival rate. These results
are much better than those obtained with advanced stage
disease. For a long time, CHOP has been the standard
treatment, but in the past decade, new modalities have

Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphomas

247

changed therapeutic options: increased dose/intensity
CHOP-like regimens, combination with rituximab
(Table 13.4) and high-dose therapy with autologous stem
cell transplantation (ASCT).
Adding more drugs to standard CHOP regimen has
failed to prove its interest (72), and increasing the dose
intensity of CHOP has proven its value and remains a
possible tool to increase response rate and decrease relapse
rate (73). The regimen used in the GELA for 25 years,
ACVBP, now has proven its superiority in terms of eventfree and overall survivals compared with CHOP (74,75)
(Figs. 13.6 and 13.7). The GELA studies used an approach,
with four alterations of the CHOP regimen: a sequential
consolidation after induction with the modified CHOP
regimen, a shortening of the interval between courses to
two weeks, an increase of doses, and a repeat of nonhematotoxic drugs on day 5 of each course (Fig. 13.5). The ACVBP
regimen was used as standard arm in several randomized
studies since 1987 and had shown its superiority over
m-BACOD and CHOP for patients with poor risk lymphoma, and equivalence with HDT in patients with good
risk lymphoma (76). It is actually unknown whether
ACVBP will keep this advantage over CHOP with the
introduction of rituximab in combination with chemotherapy (see paragraphs later). A study is in progress to answer
this question. Others tried to improve results in keeping
CHOP or CHOP-like chemotherapy but to shortened interval of administration from three weeks (CHOP 21) to two
weeks (CHOP 14). This strategy improved results but it
remains unknown whether CHOP 14 is better than CHOP
21 when rituximab is added to chemotherapy (77,78).
Addition of rituximab to chemotherapy increased
remission among these patients (Table 13.5) (79–83) (Fig.
13.8). R-CHOP combines CHOP every three weeks for
eight cycles with rituximab given on day 1 of each cycle.
This regimen is associated with a dramatic increase in
the survival of patients and has been shown to decrease
the refractoriness to chemotherapy associated with bcl-2
protein expression (84). R-CHOP has become the reference
regimen for patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma
and for other B-cell lymphoma subtypes. Its use on a

Rituximab at first relapse/progression
No rituximab

1.00

0.75

0.50

0.25
Log rank p < 0.0001
0

2.5

5.0

7.5

10.0

12.5

Survival after first relapse/progression (years)

15.0

17.5

Figure 13.5 Overall survival in follicular
lymphoma according to rituximab use at first
relapse/progression. Source: From Ref. 50.

248

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

population-scaled basis decreases the mortality associated
with DLBCL (85).
HDT with ASCT was tested in several settings in these
patients after it has proven its interest in relapsing patients
(see p. 254 Relapsing patients). Patients in partial response
at the end of first-line chemotherapy may benefit from such
a treatment too. For responding patients, several randomized studies allow to conclude that this treatment has no
interest in patients with good risk lymphoma or slow
response to chemotherapy. Some of these studies concluded
that HDT with ASCT in first remission can improve survival
for a subgroup of patients with high-risk lymphoma and
who reached complete remission at the end of treatment
(86,87). Currently, this treatment should be reserved for
young patients with adverse prognostic factors.
From all data cited above, we may describe three
large groups of patients. The first group has localized
disease. These patients can be treated with standard treatments, either three courses of R-CHOP followed by
involved field radiotherapy (88) or six to eight courses of
R-CHOP or R-ACVBP regimen for those with more aggressive disease (89). However, no consensus exists about what
should be considered standard treatment. For patients
older than 60 years with stage I-II and age-adjusted IPI of
0, R-CHOP for four cycles without radiotherapy seems to
be enough (90). More intensive treatments should be
reserved for patients who do not achieve complete response
or who relapse. As more than 80% of these patients are
cured with these treatments, the only refinement may come
for the description of some adverse prognostic parameters
that will move poorer risk patients to other groups treated
more intensively.
The second group comprises young patients with
advanced disease. Best treatment for these patients is
unknown. Treatment of reference is R-CHOP but other
options such dose-intense R-CHOP-like regimens (R-CHOP
14, R-ACVBP) or HDT with ASCT exist. These treatments
may have their place here, but there is no clear consensus
on which treatment must be standard.
The third group comprises elderly patients, defined
as patients not able to tolerate dose-intense regimens.
In this setting, the recent GELA trial has settled the standard to eight cycles of R-CHOP (82). For patients older
than 80 years and not able to tolerate intensive chemotherapy, dose-adjusted R-CHOP (mini R-CHOP) may be
an option.
Other small groups of patients may be recognized,
such as patients refractory to chemotherapy, defined as rapid
progression after treatment discontinuation or progressive
disease after initial courses. No parameters are able to
identify these patients at diagnosis, except expression of
bcl-2 protein. The addition of rituximab to chemotherapy
may help to decrease the percentage of patients with
refractoriness to chemotherapy (84).
Whether involved field radiotherapy in patients
showing complete response may decrease the relapse rate
in all patients or only in patients with large tumoral masses
is debated. Some groups have presented better outcomes
for patients treated with radiotherapy (91). However, the
failure of radiation therapy to add to chemotherapy in
localized disease, its long-term side effects, and the fact
that persisting images may not reflect active disease do not
favor this addition.

It is generally accepted that the definitive strategy
for treating DLBCL patients has not yet been determined
and that including patients in prospective, carefully
designed, trials must be a rule of good clinical practice.
Evaluation of response to treatment with early PET scan
during chemotherapy may help to guide management
and adapt therapy in the future. This strategy is actually
evaluated in clinical studies.

Burkitt Lymphoma
Burkitt lymphoma (BL) is a highly aggressive NHL and is
considered a B-cell mature neoplasm. Three clinical variants
of BL have been described: endemic, sporadic, and immunodeficiency BL. Morphologically, BL consists of mediumsized monomorphic cells with a round nucleus, multiple
nucleoli, and basophilic cytoplasm. Cytoplasmic lipid vacuoles are generally present. The tumor is highly proliferative
with multiple mitoses, apoptotic cells, and macrophages.
The cells are positive for surface immunoglobulin M (sIgM+),
express B antigens, and are CD5–, CD10+, bcl-6+, and Tdt+.
All cases show translocation of the c-myc gene on chromosome 8 to the immunoglobulin heavy chain region on
chromosome 14, t(8;14), or to the light chain region on
chromosome 2, t(2;8), or chromosome 22, t(8;22), leading
to the activation of c-myc. The plasmacytoid variant is
more common in immunodeficient patients. Another variant called atypical Burkitt/Burkitt-like lymphoma shows
high degree of apoptosis and high mitotic index as classical BL but also greater polymorphism in nuclear size
and shape. Morphologic features can be intermediate
between BL and DLBCL. Gene expression profiling can
help to distinguish BL from DLBCL but is of limited access
(92,93).
Sporadic BL is more common in children (40% of all
child lymphomas) but accounts for 1% to 2% of lymphomas in adults. This clinical subtype is seen throughout the
world. Most patients present with an abdominal tumor
involving the cecum and mesentery, but some cases
develop in ovary, breast, testis, or peripheral lymph node.
Bone marrow or meningeal involvement is frequent affecting 50% to 70% and 20% to 40% of adults, respectively.
Endemic BL occurs in specific areas (equatorial Africa or
tropical areas with endemic malaria). The tumor is localized
in the jaws or orbit in 50% of cases. Cases observed in
endemic zones of Africa are associated with EBV infection
in 100% of cases, which is different from the sporadic cases
of Europe or the United States, where EBV infection is
found only in 20% of the cases. Immunodeficiency associated
BL is seen usually in association with HIV infection and
associated with EBV in 25% to 40% of the cases.
Patients without bone marrow or CNS disease have
a better outcome than those with these adverse locations,
but all must be treated with regimens designed for children
(94,95). These intensive regimens usually include high
doses cyclophosphamide, cytarabine, methotrexate, and
aggressive intrathecal CNS prophylaxis. Elderly patients
with Burkitt lymphoma generally have a poor survival and
may not tolerate intensive regimens proposed in young
adults. The place of rituximab is this highly proliferative
CD20+ lymphoma has not yet be defined and in under
study. Relapse usually occurs in the first year following
treatment.

Chapter 13:

Mature T-cell Lymphomas (Table 13.2)
Mycosis Fungoides and Sézary Syndrome
Primary cutaneous lymphomas involve the skin without
evidence of extracutaneous disease at the time of diagnosis.
Around 75% of cutaneous lymphomas are of T-cell origin,
and most of them are mycosis fungoides (MF) (96,97).
MF is characterized by infiltration of the epidermis
by tumor cells, which are predominantly small to mediumsized cells with cerebriform nuclei. A minority of large cells
can be seen. With disease progression, epidermotropism
may be lost with more diffuse dermal infiltrate and tumor
cells can increase in number and size. Most cases are CD4+,
but rare CD8+ cases are reported. Other T-cell-associated
antigens can be expressed as CD2, CD3, and CD5. CD7
expression is variable. If TCR genes are rearranged No
specific genetic abnormality has been described yet.
MF is usually an indolent disease with evolution
over years. Patients present with cutaneous patches that
can progress to plaques and eventually nodules. Some
present initially with generalized erythroderma, and others
develop this state as disease progressed. Lymph node and
visceral involvement are late occurrences, mostly in cases
of histological transformation.
Sézary syndrome (SS) is defined by the historic triad
of erythroderma, generalized lymphadenopathy, and blood
involvement by the neoplastic T cells (Sézary cells). Blood
involvement usually requires a number of at least 1000/mm3.
Alternatively, demonstration of CD4:CD8 ratio greater than
10 or of a T-cell clone in blood can be sufficient to support
the diagnosis of SS.
MF patients usually have a long survival although
they rarely achieve complete response. Prognosis depends
on the stage of the disease, with 10-year overall survival
over 95% for patients with limited cutaneous disease, 42%
for tumor stage disease, and 20% with proven lymph node
involvement (96). SS follows an aggressive course with
median survival between two and four years.
Patients with disease limited to the skin can be treated
with topical measures as topical nitrogen mustard, electron
beam therapy (local or total depending on the extent), or
phototherapy with psoralen and ultraviolet A light (PUVA).
As the disease progresses, other options are available as
interferon, retinoid (bexarotene), combination therapy
(PUVA+interferon, PUVA+bexarotene), and eventually systemic chemotherapy (HDAC inhibitors, cladribine, pentostatin, gemcitabine, liposomal doxorubicin, methotrexate).
In any instance of disease progression toward large tumoral
masses either cutaneous, in lymph nodes, or in visceral
locations, chemotherapy should be preferred. Unfortunately,
most patients will eventually fail to respond, develop large
cutaneous tumors, or non-cutaneous tumoral sites, or have
transformation into large cell lymphoma. New therapies
such as denileukin diftitox (monoclonal antibody combined
with toxin), alemtuzumab (monoclonal antibody anti-CD52),
or vorinostat [histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi)] may
have an interest in progressive disease. For patients presenting with SS, extracorporeal photophoresis and systemic
therapies are recommended (98).

Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma
Peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) is not a single entity
but includes several distinct clinical pathologic syndromes,

Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphomas

249

now well recognized in the WHO classification: angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma, extranodal NK/T cell
lymphoma-nasal type, enteropathy-type T-cell lymphoma,
hepatosplenic γδ T-cell lymphoma, subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma, anaplastic large cell lymphoma,
CD30+ cutaneous proliferations, and HTLV-1 related lymphoma. Although many of these entities have been conclusively defined, some have been identified on a provisional
basis only. These lymphomas account for 10% to 15% of
all lymphomas in Europe and the United States but are
more frequent elsewhere, e.g., Japan or East Asia. Their
heterogeneity and the difficulties in differentiating between
reactive and lymphomatous cells often make PTCL difficult
to describe and classify. A feature common to all such
lymphomas is the variability in presentation, with some
cases being sufficiently atypical to suggest diseases other
than lymphoma, resulting in diagnostic delay. Their clinical
presentation is extremely heterogeneous, and very few trials
have individualized these patients before treatment. They are
usually treated like DLBCL patients but without rituximab
and, unfortunately, a far worse outcome (100).
Angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL) is a
systemic disease with polymorphous infiltrate involving
lymph nodes associated with a proliferation of follicular
dendritic cells and a prominent arborization of high endothelial venules. Neoplastic cells are small to medium-sized
and represent only a fraction of the infiltrate being mixed
with small lymphocytes, eosinophils, plasma cells, histiocytes, and large lymphoid cells. Tumors cells express CD4+
and other T-cell antigens (CD2, CD3, CD5). CD10 and
CXCL13 are also often expressed (101). Patients generally
present at an advanced age with generalized lymph node
hypertrophy, hepatosplenomegaly, fever, cutaneous reactions, and polyclonal hypergammaglobulinemia. Immunologic abnormalities are common. Optimal treatment is
unknown. Prognosis is poor with long-term survival
around 30% even with CHOP-like chemotherapy. The benefit of autologous stem cell transplantation on long-term
survival is unknown (102).
Extranodal NK/T cell lymphoma (nasal type) is
strongly associated with EBV and is seen predominantly
in Asia. Most patients present with localized nasal mass
with systemic disseminated disease being uncommon. This
neoplasm shows a broad morphologic spectrum with a
pleomorphic cellular infiltrate associated with angioinvasion and angiodestruction. CD56 is usually positive. This
is an aggressive disease with a poor prognosis. A combination of chemotherapy (usually CHOP-like regimen) and
radiotherapy is usually given. The sequence of treatment
is unclear (103).
Enteropathy-type T-cell lymphoma often occurs in
adults with a history of gluten enteropathy but can occur
as a primary event. Jejunum and ileum are usually
involved. Spread to distant sites is unusual at diagnosis.
The infiltrate is again polymorph with the neoplastic cells
showing the following immunophenotype: CD3+, CD7+,
CD4–, CD8–, and CD103+. Small bowel obstruction and
perforation are classic clinical presentations. Management
includes resection when possible and chemotherapy.
Results with CHOP are disappointing, but no regimen is
known superior.
Hepatosplenic γδ T-cell lymphoma is a rare and
aggressive disease. Median age at diagnosis is in the

250

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

ACVBP + sequential consolidation

Induction

Consolidation
MTX

ACVB

Week

I

II

III

IV

0

2

4

6

IFM 1500 mg/m2
VP16 300 mg/m2

10 12 14 16 18

20

Ara-C
S.C

22 26

Response
75 mg/m2
1200 mg/m2
2 mg/m2
10 mg
60 mg/m2
15 mg
5 μg/kg

Doxorubicin
Cyclophosphamide
Vindesine
Bleomycin
Prednisone
MTX intra-thecal
G-CSF

Response
d1
d1
d1,d5
d1,d5
d1 to d5
d2
d6 to d13

MTX 3 g/m2
Ara-C 100 mg/m2/d
× 4d

Figure 13.6 Dose-intensive CHOP or ACVBP used
in the LNH-84 protocol (76) followed by the sequential
chemotherapy.

1

LNH03
LNH87
LNH93
LNH98

Survival probability

0.8

0.6

0.4

0.2

0

Log rank p < 0.0001
0

12

24

36

48

60

72

OS (months)

mid-thirties. Most of the time patients have advanced disease at presentation with liver, splenic, and bone marrow
infiltration. Hemophagocytic syndrome can be observed.
Prognosis is poor even with intensive chemotherapy.
Subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma is
also a rare disease and happens in the mid-thirties. Initial
manifestation usually includes one or multiple subcutaneous nodules. Systemic symptoms such as fever and hemophagocytic syndrome are frequently reported. Evolution
can be indolent, but sometimes aggressive. Five-year overall

84

96

108

Figure 13.7 Overall survival in B-cell
aggressive lymphoma treated with ACVBP in
different GELA (Groupe d’étude des
Lymphomes de l’Adulte) studies (LNH 19871993-1998-2003). Abbreviations: ACVBP,
doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vindesine,
bleomycin, and prednisone; OS, overall
survival.

survival is around 60% (104). Combination chemotherapy
and radiotherapy have been used, but the best therapeutic
approach is unknown. However, good responses have
been described.

Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma
Anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) accounts for 3%
of adults NHL and 10% to 30% of pediatric lymphomas.
ALCL has a large morphologic spectrum. Usually, the cells

Chapter 13:

are large with a pleomorphic multilobed nucleus, multiple
or large isolated nucleoli, and an abundant cytoplasm.
Lymphohistiocytic and small cell variants have been
described (105). Proliferation of these cells has a cohesive
appearance and an affinity for lymph node sinuses. Tumor
cells are CD30+, CD45±, EMA+, CD15–, and Alk1+; they are
variably positive for T-cell antigens, as some cases show a
null phenotype. A t(2;5) translocation (or a variant) is generally present leading to the expression of a NPM-ALK fusion
protein; 10% show no evidence of gene rearrangement, and
90% show T-cell receptor gene rearrangement.
Two clinical presentations of ALCL are encountered:
the first is systemic, with nodal and/or extranodal (sometimes cutaneous) involvement; the second is exclusively
cutaneous, forming a continuum from lymphomatoid papulosis (not necessarily neoplastic despite being clonal)
through lymphoma, usually Alk1–. The cutaneous variant
may regress spontaneously over long periods before
reemerging. In clinical presentation and course, the systemic
ALCL is fairly similar to other large B- or T-cell lymphomas.
In some cases, clinical manifestations may differ very little
from those of mediastinal Hodgkin’s disease with a large
tumor, which renders the diagnosis fairly difficult.
Anaplastic T- or N/K-cell lymphomas are seen mostly
in young adult patients. Patients with the systemic form
often present with an aggressive picture, advanced stage
and B symptoms, but they respond to dose-intense CHOPlike regimens, and 60% to 70% of them are disease-free at
five years (14,106). Prognosis is different depending on Alk
status: five-year overall survival of 75% for Alk+ and 50%
for Alk– (107,108). Currently, the strategy used for DLBCL
patients, except the use of anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody,
is recommended. Patients with the cutaneous form have a
better outcome, which will be described later.

Adult T-cell Lymphoma/Leukemia
Adult T-cell lymphoma/leukemia (ATL) is a T-cell neoplasm
caused by HTLV-1. Tumor cells express T-cell-associated
antigens (CD2, CD3, and CD5) but usually do not express
CD7, and most are CD4+. TCR genes are rearranged and a
clonally integrated HTLV-I genome is found in all cases.
Most cases occur in Japan, but an endemic focus is
found in the Caribbean. The estimated risk to develop ATL
following HTLV-1 infection is about 5%, with a latency
period of several decades. Several clinical variants have
been described: a leukemic form with high leucocyte count
hepatosplenomegaly, hypercalcemia, and lytic bone lesions;
a lymphoma form with lymphadenopathies without leukemia; a chronic form with isolated leucocyte count and skin
rashes; and smoldering cases with mild lymphocytosis.
Treatment generally includes combination chemotherapy
regimens, but prognosis is usually poor.

Precursor B-cell and T-cell Neoplasms
Precursor B lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL)/lymphoblastic lymphoma (B-LL) and precursor T lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL)/lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LL) are
neoplasm of lymphoblasts committed to B- and T-cell lineage, respectively. Precursor B- and T-cell neoplasms are
considered separately, but leukemia and lymphoma subtypes of each lineage are considered as a single disease

Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphomas

251

with different patterns of presentation. If the patient presents a mass lesion and 25% or fewer lymphoblasts in
bone marrow, it is considered a lymphoma. Globally, Band T-cell lymphoblastic lymphomas represent 2% of
adult NHL.
Precursor B lymphoblastic lymphoma is an uncommon type of lymphoma representing 10% of lymphoblastic
lymphoma, and most of them present in children or
adolescents. Most frequent sites of involvement are the
skin, bone, soft tissue, and lymph nodes. Unlike T-LL, mediastinal masses are unfrequent. B-ALL is a hundred times
more frequent than B-LL. B-LL comprises lymphoblasts,
which are cells slightly larger than small lymphocytes
with a B phenotype (CD19+, CD79a+, and varying in their
positivity for other B-cell antigens), TdT+, and HLA-DR+.
Various cytogenetic abnormalities have been reported
(109). Treatment should be the same as that for B-ALL.
Precursor T lymphoblastic lymphoma represents 90%
of lymphoblastic lymphoma, and it is most frequent in
adolescent and young adults. Mediastinal involvement is
present in about two-third of cases. Other common sites
involved include peripheral lymph node, pleural space,
pericardium, bone marrow, and CNS. CNS is a frequent
site of relapse without adequate prophylaxis (up to 30%).
T-LL is composed of lymphoblasts undistinguishable from
B-LL/B-ALL lymphoblasts on morphology alone. They
have a T-cell phenotype (CD7+, CD3+, other T-cell antigens
variable) and TdT+. Rearrangement of TCR genes is variable, and IgH gene rearrangement may be seen. Variable
cytogenetic abnormalities have been reported but without
prognostic significance. The recommended therapy for
T-LL is the same as that for ALL with intensive chemotherapy and adequate CNS prophylaxis (110,111). With
these modalities, five-year overall survival is around 50%
in children. The value of mediastinal irradiation for patients
with mediastinal involvement is unclear. Also, the benefit
of high-dose therapy with autologous stem cell transplant
in first complete response is unknown. In any case, the
classical CHOP is not an effective therapy.

SPECIAL CLINICAL SITUATIONS
Elderly Patients
Elderly patients present some particularities compared with
younger patients with respect to NHL histologies, comorbidities, tolerance to treatment, and prognosis. DLBCL and
peripheral T-cell lymphoma, small lymphocytic lymphoma,
lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma, and maybe splenic marginal zone lymphoma are seen more often in the elderly
population. Other subtypes such as anaplastic large cell
lymphoma are unusual in this group (112,113). Studies
focusing on elderly population showed decrease in complete response rate and event-free survival. Survival of
these patients is found to be consistently shorter than that
of younger patients, and this difference persists after correction of survival data for cause of death that appeared
unrelated to lymphoma (114). This shorter survival may be
related to a tendency of physicians to administer reduced
treatment and to poor tolerance of therapy, in itself
related to poor performance status and the presence of
associated disabilities (115).
As done in younger patients, the treatment of elderly
patients with lymphoma has to be designed according to

252

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

1

CHOP
R-CHOP

OS

Survival probability

0.8

0.6

0.4

0.2

0

p = 0.004
0

1

2

3

4
Years

5

lymphoma’s histological subtype and the presence or
absence of adverse prognostic factors. The special problems
of treating elderly patients are specific to those with
DLBCL, because these patients may not receive full highdose chemotherapy regimens because of their age and concomitant diseases. However, the approach consisting to
deliver an “age-specific” regimen has constantly failed to
show any advantage (116). The gold-standard chemotherapy regimen for patients with DLBCL is now R-CHOP,
and when doses were decreased because of advanced age,
the CR rate decreased and the survival shortened (81,117).
Treatment of elderly patients remains a constant challenge
and appropriate evaluation is necessary to give treatment
in function of biologic age rather than chronologic age.
Multidisciplinary approach with geriatric evaluation can be
very helpful.

Post-transplantation Lymphomas
The Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) has been implicated in the
pathogenesis B-cell lymphoproliferative diseases (PTLDs)
in immunosuppressed organ transplant recipients. The
incidence is probably inferior to 1% in hematopoietic stem
cell transplant with higher rates with HLA mismatched or
T-cell depleted grafts. For solid organ transplant, incidence
is usually under 2% but can be superior in cases needing
more intense immunosuppression. Four groups of patients
have been identified in PTLD (118): uncomplicated posttransplant infectious mononucleosis; benign polyclonal
hyperplasia without evidence of malignant transformation;
early malignant transformation into polyclonal polymorphic B-cell lymphoma with clonal cytogenetic abnormalities and immunoglobulin gene rearrangements; and
monoclonal polymorphic B-cell lymphoma. The first two
groups have infectious diseases that may be treated with
antiviral drugs (acyclovir or gancyclovir) and/or reduction

6

7

8

Figure 13.8 Overall survival with a median
follow-up of seven years in LNH 98-5 study from
GELA comparing CHOP with R-CHOP in elderly
patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
Abbreviations:
CHOP,
Cyclophosphamide,
Hydroxydaunorubicin (Adriamycin), Oncovin
(Vincristine), Prednisone/Prednisolone; OS, overall
survival; R-CHOP, Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide,
Hydroxydaunorubicin (Adriamycin), Oncovin
(Vincristine), Prednisone/Prednisolone. Source:
From Ref. 81.

of immunosuppression. Reduction of immunosuppression
allows the regression of most PTLDs in the third group.
Patients with monoclonal polymorphic lymphoma present
frequently extranodal lesions and must be treated with a
reduction of immunosuppression in combination with
appropriate immunotherapy or chemotherapy. Rituximab
is associated with good response without the toxic effects
of chemotherapy, and it appears the actual standard. When
chemotherapy is needed, R-CHOP is certainly the best current regimen (119). The place of EBV viral load screening
by quantitative PCR analysis, and preemptive therapy is
unclear. Late occurrences of lymphoma after transplantation are more likely to be unrelated to EBV infection and
need to be treated as standard de novo DLBCL.

HIV-Infection-Related Lymphomas
Many different lymphoma types have been identified in
AIDS patients, and high-grade B-cell pathologic type was
the most frequent with 70% to 90% of cases. Diffuse large
B-cell lymphoma including centroblastic, immunoblastic,
and anaplastic variant, primary central nervous system lymphoma, Burkitt’s lymphoma, primary effusion lymphoma,
plasmablastic lymphoma, and PTLD associated with EBV
are included in this category (120). Risk factors for the development of NHL include a low CD4 count. However, Burkitt’s
lymphoma happens in the context of CD4 count usually
higher (>200 cells/μL). Lymphoma may occur in HIVpositive patients as the first manifestation of AIDS or in
patients with a long history of AIDS-related infectious complications and poor performance status. In this last setting,
lymphoma is usually extranodal, particularly with CNS
involvement, but uncommon sites may be involved. The
treatment of such patients is often palliative and they usually die of infectious complications associated with AIDS,
sometimes potentiated by lymphoma treatment.

Chapter 13:

Lymphomas that occur as one of the first manifestation of AIDS are often seen in patients without severe infectious risk who may still have near normal CD4+ lymphocytes.
Because of the prognosis of these patients has now improved
with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), their
lymphoma must be treated with curative intent (121). Normally, the disease is disseminated, possibly with bone
marrow or CNS involvement. Standard chemotherapy
regimens as in non-HIV setting should be used. The addition of rituximab to chemotherapy is of uncertain value
especially in patients with low CD4 counts, as increase in
infectious complications happened in some studies.

TREATMENT STRATEGIES ACCORDING TO DISEASE SITE
It is widely believed that lymphomas may behave differently in certain sites, and this is certainly true with regard
to initial manifestations of the disease and diagnostic procedures. However, no analysis has confirmed this peculiarity with respect to prognostic parameters, type of treatment
required, or outcome. Whatever the initial site involved,
treatment strategy is dictated by the histological subtype
of the lymphoma and the presence of adverse prognostic
parameters.

Gastrointestinal Tract Lymphomas
One half of gastrointestinal tract (GIT) lymphomas are
small cell MALT lymphomas, which are commonly localized and have a very good outcome, and the other half are
DBLCL or Burkitt’s lymphoma and are associated with a
poorer prognosis even if localized. However, a high proportion of gastric DLCL may occur as a transformation of
a MALT lymphoma as witnessed by the persistence of a
small cell component. Today, there is no agreement on the
percentage of large cells required to support a diagnosis
of transformation or on prognostic importance of the presence of these large cells. Patients with less than 20% of
large cells may be treated with antibiotics as the patients
with small cells.
Diagnosis is relatively easy in the stomach or colon
with endoscopy, but laparotomy is often required for diagnosis of small bowel lymphomas. Small bowel lymphomas
are characterized by their insidious course and an acute
revelation by intestinal occlusion. In all cases, large surgical
resection should be avoided, with surgical complications
such as perforation or hemorrhage treated preventively by
early adapted chemotherapy. These patients are treated
like non-GIT patients with the same histological subtype.
MALT, follicular, and mantle cell lymphomas are often disseminated, and surgery should be limited to the minimum.
DLBCL patients may have a localized disease, and surgery
is the only way to make the diagnosis. The most difficult
disease to treat is the enteropathy-associated NK-cell
lymphoma (122).

Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphomas

253

regimens containing high-dose methotrexate (123,124).
Radiotherapy can be associated to chemotherapy, but
benefits are unclear and it increases neurotoxicity, especially for patients older than 60 years. The most effective
regimen and the necessity of radiotherapy have yet to be
defined. Inclusion of such patients in prospective trials is
mandatory.
CNS relapse occurs in 5% of DLBCL and T-cell lymphoma patients, more frequently in LL and BL, and less
so, and probably only after transformation, in indolent
lymphomas. Thus, CNS prophylaxis is mandatory for LL
and BL patients only. In DLBCL and T-cell lymphoma
patients, an initial CSF examination is mandatory, particularly in patients with bone marrow infiltration or other
adverse parameters. There is no curative treatment for CNS
relapses, but high-dose methotrexate alone or combined
with high-dose cytarabine yields some responses.

Skin Lymphomas
Aside from the MF/SS and secondary skin localizations of
disseminated lymphomas, skin lymphomas are characterized by several entities (96). Primary cutaneous CD30+
lymphoproliferative disorders include primary cutaneous
anaplastic large-cell lymphoma (C-ALCL) and lymphomatoid papulomatosis. These disorders have an excellent
prognosis and may present spontaneous regression. Diffusion outside the skin occurs rarely, and these patients
should not be treated as lymph node ALCL patients. Surgical excision or local radiotherapy is sufficient for localized
C-ALCL and methotrexate for patients with multifocal skin
disease. Cutaneous B-cell lymphomas include marginal zone
lymphoma (MZL), follicle center lymphoma (FCL), and
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Cutaneous MZL
and FCL have an excellent prognosis and rare extracutaneous dissemination. An association between cutaneous MZL
and Borrelia burgdorferi has been observed. Local therapy
such as surgery or radiotherapy should be tried first if
feasible, keeping chemotherapy for multiple sites or disseminated disease. At the other end, cutaneous DLBCL is an
aggressive disease with frequent extracutaneous dissemination and inferior prognosis. Treatment should be the same
as systemic DLBCL with polychemotherapy.

DLBCL Bone Lymphomas
DLBCL bone lymphomas may be localized to one site,
disseminated in several bone sites or associated with nonbone localizations. These patients have to be treated with
standard chemotherapy regimens adapted for DLBCL
patients. The only special characteristic of these patients is
the persistence of their bone alterations long after the disappearance of the lymphoma’s cells, which makes it difficult to evaluate their response to treatment. PET scan may
have a role here. The utility of local radiotherapy has not
been demonstrated.

Primary CNS Lymphomas
Primary CNS lymphoma patients usually have localized
disease and a DLBCL subtype. Surgical resection provides
little therapeutic benefit. Radiotherapy allows a median
survival of 12 months and is rarely curative. Complete
response can be achieved with standard chemotherapy

TREATMENT STRATEGIES ACCORDING TO RESPONSE
TO INITIAL THERAPY
Standard chemotherapy regimens are unlikely to salvage
many patients; more intensive modalities must be used.

254

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

2.5%

12.2%
Peripheral T-cell lymphoma - NOS 25.9%

0.9%

25.9%

1.4%

Angioimmunoblastic 18.5%
Natural killer/T-cell lymphoma 10.4%

1.7%

Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma 9.6%

4.7%

Anaplastic large cell lymphoma, ALK+ 6.6%
Anaplastic large cell lymphoma, ALK- 5.5%

5.5%

Enteropathy-type T-cell 4.7%
Primary cutaneous ALCL1.7%
Hepatosplenic T-cell 1.4%

6.6%
18.5%

Subcutaneous panniculitis-like 0.9%
Unclassifiable PTCL 2.5%

9.6%
Other disorders 12.2%
10.4%

Figure 13.9 Distribution of 1314 cases of peripheral T-cell and NK/T-cell lymphoma from 22 institutions around the world. Source: From Ref. 99.
Abbreviations: ALCL, systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma; PTCL, peripheral T-cell lymphomas.

High-dose therapy with autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) was first demonstrated for aggressive
lymphomas but may be applied to indolent lymphomas
as well.

Patients with Partial Response
Five to ten percent of patients will not respond to initial
treatment, and 5% to 50% of them will achieve partial
response, depending on the histology. However, outcome
in non-responders and partial responders is fundamentally
different. Patients who never responded to therapy have a
rapidly fatal outcome and should be included in phase II
trials testing new strategies. The prognosis of partial
responders treated with conventional therapy is also poor,
particularly for aggressive lymphomas, with only 0% to 25%
of the patients becoming long-term survivors. Although
secondary responses may be achieved in indolent lymphomas, they are usually only partial and not durable. The
only difference between aggressive and indolent lymphoma patients is the respective percentages of patients
who reach a PR and the duration of their responses after
completion of a salvage regimen. Although encouraging
results have been reported with the use of high-dose therapy with ASCT for patients in partial remission, the term
PR corresponds to different status in the published series,
and some of them with only the persistence of radiological
abnormalities. PR must be defined as the persistence of
lymphoma cells in bone marrow or lymph nodes in
patients who had responded to initial therapy. PET scan
may help to identify true PR from patients with CR but
persisting masses. In elderly patients, local radiotherapy
can be added if the persisting mass is localized, but we
recommend to wait until progression and then to treat
them palliatively.

Complete Response Patients with Persisting Masses
Patients with large tumors often present persisting mass
on computed tomography (CT) scan after initial treatment,
particularly in the mediastinum or abdomen. Their volume
may be less than 25% of the initial tumor mass, or more
considerable. Retrospective analyses in aggressive lymphoma patients have shown that most of these patients are
already in complete remission but have persisting fibronecrotic tissue, and the problem facing physicians is how to
recognize which patients have these non-tumoral lesions
(125). This problem mostly exists in DLBCL patients, and
residual mass is usually lymphomatous in other entities.
Gallium scintigraphy may help if the tumor was positive
before diagnosis, but PET scan has dramatically changed
our conception of persisting images (5,126). Patients with
a residual mass on CT scan and a fixation on PET scan
have a partial response, but histological correlation should
be done whenever possible, as false-positive results exist.
If PR is confirmed, treatment plan include salvage chemotherapy plus HDT with ASCT if feasible. Patients with
residual images on CT scan but without FDG fixation on
PET scan have a true fibronecrotic mass and do not need
further treatment.

Relapsing Patients
Around 40% of complete response lymphoma patients will
subsequently relapse, and a higher percentage of patients
in some subtypes such as FL, SLL, or LPL relapse. Relapses
are observed more commonly during the first two years
after completion of therapy. Duration of the first response
and lymphoma response to the salvage chemotherapy
regimen are major prognostic factors, although prognostic
parameters that influenced outcome at diagnosis are also
predictive of outcome after relapse. Numerous salvage

Chapter 13:

Table 13.5
Lymphoma

Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphomas

255

Randomized Studies Comparing Chemotherapy to Rituximab Plus Chemotherapy in Untreated Patients with Diffuse Large B-cell

Reference

Setting

Treatment

Coiffier et al. (GELA)
(82,141)
Habermann et al.
(Intergroup) (83)

Elderly
(60–80 years old)
Elderly
(≥60 years old)

CHOP vs. R-CHOP

399

Pfreundschuh et al.
(MInT) (79)
Pfreundschuh et al.
(RICOVER-60) (80)

18–60 years old,
IPI 0-1
61–80 years old

CHOP vs. R-CHOP
(second
randomization for
responders with
maintenance
rituximab or not)
CHOP-like vs.
R-CHOP like
CHOP 14 vs. R-CHOP
14 (second
randomization for
6 vs. 8 cycles)

regimens that incorporate drugs not used in first-line
therapy have been proposed (127). If 70% of the patients
responded to salvage therapy, only 20% to 35% achieve
second complete responses, and the median TTF is usually less than one year, with fewer than 10% of relapsed
patients experiencing a long disease-free survival. Interpretation of clinical trials of salvage regimens is complicated because many patients with relapsed lymphoma died
before receiving therapy or were not included in clinical
trials.
Promising results of pilot series of high-dose therapy in relapsing DLBCL lymphoma patients have been
confirmed by the results of the PARMA trial (128). Highdose therapy with ASCT is the only treatment that yields
more than 5% long-term survival in relapsing patients,
and it should be considered after first relapse in all
patients younger than 65 years who respond to salvage
chemotherapy (129).
Different modalities relevant to high dose therapy
are not settled. Whether it is necessary to purge peripheral
stem cells from persisting lymphoma cells and how to do
it remains unknown. No trial has succeeded yet in showing
a benefit for the ex vivo purge. However, in vivo purge
before the harvest with rituximab seems to offer goodquality graft for B-cell NHL. Also, the best conditioning
regimen and the role of total body irradiation have still to
be defined.
High-dose therapy should be proposed to all patients
in first progression after chemotherapy who respond to
salvage therapy regardless of their lymphoma subtype
because lymphoma cells may acquire resistance with progression, and subsequent complete responses are rare
and of short duration. For relapsing patients who did not
respond to salvage therapy, the utility of HDT is not
demonstrated: it is estimated that 5% of them may benefit
from such a treatment. Patients in second relapse may be
treated with HDT if they continue to respond but they
have a lower probability of remission than do the patients
in first relapse. There is some evidence that late relapses
are not associated with a better outcome than early

Number of Follow-up
patients

Complete
response rate

Event-free
survival

Overall survival

5 years

63% vs. 76%

29% vs. 47%

546

3.5 years

Not available

FFS 43%
vs. 56%
(p = 0.04)

45% vs. 58%
(p < 0.0073)
No significant
differences

824

3 years

68% vs. 86%

59% vs. 79%

1222

3 years

68–72%
(6–8 cycles)
vs. 78–76%

47–53% vs.
67–63%

84% vs. 93%
(p = 0.0001)
68–66% vs.
78–73%
(p = 0.0031
for 6 R-CHOP
14)

relapses and, thus, these patients should be offered the
same treatment.

Histological Transformation
An initially indolent lymphoma who progress often undergoes histological transformation into a large cell or Burkittlike lymphoma and a clinically aggressive disease with
large tumor burden and high LDH level. These patients
have a poor outcome and a median survival of about
12 months. They should be treated with R-CHOP or highdose R-CHOP-like chemotherapy followed by high-dose
therapy and ASCT (130).

Palliative Treatments
Even though complete remission is the ultimate aim at
first, some patients need palliative treatments: for example,
elderly patients with poor performance status or severe
concomitant disease, truly refractory patients, relapsing
patients for whom high dose therapy is not suitable, and
patients progressing after high-dose therapy. In this setting, patients should be treated in the presence of clinical
symptoms and an altered quality of life. The presence of
lymphoma cells without disease symptoms is not a reason
to treat these patients. If different chemotherapy regimens
can be used, only those with low adverse event rates must
be used. Oral treatments such as VP-16 or one-day combination chemotherapy should be preferred. In this setting,
rituximab is an interesting drug for B-cell lymphoma
patients because of its efficacy and its safety.

LONG-TERM TOXIC EFFECTS
As more and more patients are cured with current therapeutic strategies, the question of long-term adverse effects
should be considered. As most of these patients have been
cured by chemotherapy only, the frequency of such effects
is lower than in Hodgkin’s disease where most of the
secondary late effects are due to radiation therapy. Patients

256

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

(A)

Anaplastic large cell lymphoma, ALK+
Anaplastic large cell lymphoma, ALKAll natural killer/T-cell lymphomas
Peripheral T-cell lymphoma, not otherwise specfied
Angioimmunoblastic lymphoma
Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma

100

Overall survival (%)

90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

p < 0.001
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18
Time (years)
Primary cutaneous ALCL
Subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma
Enteropathy-type T-cell lymphoma
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma

(B)
100
90
Overall survival (%)

80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

p < 0.001
1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

Time (years)

Overall survival (%)

(C) 100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

Nasal natural killer/T-cell lymphoma
Natural killer/T-cell lymphoma, nasal type
Aggressive or unclassifiable natural killer/T-cell lymphoma

p < 0.001
1

2

3

4

5
6
7
Time (years)

8

9

10

11

with cured lymphoma should be followed regularly for
years because late relapse may occur and unknown late
adverse effects may appear.

Secondary Cancer
Secondary myelodysplastic syndrome or leukemia is
observed in fewer than 2% of patients cured with first-line
chemotherapy regimens including doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (131). Other drugs such as etoposide may be

12

Figure 13.10 Overall survival of patients with
T-cell and T/NK-cell lymphoma from 22 institutions
around the world. (A) Common subtypes of PTCL,
(B) less common subtypes of PTCL, and (C) NK/T-cell
lymphoma. Source: From Ref. 99. Abbreviation:
ALCL, systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma.

more toxic but this remains to be demonstrated. Secondary leukemia is seen essentially in patients treated some
agents like fludarabine or with high-dose therapy, particularly if they have received numerous regimens containing
alkylating agents and/or total body irradiation (132,133).
The exact incidence of this complication in patients
receiving high-dose therapy is not known but probably
inferior to 5%.
Secondary solid tumors appear to be rare. Their
diversity and the time when they appear, whether before,

Chapter 13:

after, or concomitant with the lymphoma, are compatible
with coincidence. However, the number of solid tumors
seems to increase with time in cured patients.

257

Idiotype vaccination is another potential way to control lymphoma. Principles under vaccination are to isolate
tumor-derived immunoglobulin idiotype and administer it
to patients to induce immune response to lymphoma. This
therapy is tested actually in FL following response to chemotherapy. Preliminary results from phase III studies are
disappointing, and the future of such therapy is uncertain
at least with our current knowledge.

Fertility
One-third of lymphoma patients are younger than 35 years
and would like to produce offspring if cured. In fact,
patients treated with CHOP-like regimens do not suffer
fertility problems, and most of them succeed in having
children (134). Problems may occur only for older patients
or those treated repeatedly for recurrences or with total
body irradiation.

IMiDs
This class of anticancer drugs called immunomodulating
agents includes thalidomide and lenalidomide. Their mechanisms of action are unclear and are probably diverse
including as example immunomodulation and angiogenesis inhibition. Lenalidomide has demonstrated impressive
antitumor effect in several malignancies including multiple
myeloma. Recent data of lenalinomide in treatment of
lymphoproliferative disorders are promising (136).

Ability to Resume a Normal Life
Young patients cured of a lymphoma usually resume a
normal life without persisting adverse effects. They are
able to work and must be encouraged to do so. Patients
older than 50 years may have chronic fatigue and difficulty in performing strenuous labor or having sexual
intercourse.

Epigenetic Modification
Gene transcription regulation by histone and associated
enzymes appear to play an important role in causing
cancer. Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDAC) have been
introduced recently in treatment of lymphoma. Two molecules (romidepsin and vorinostat) are promising with good
results in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (137,138).

FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS
The treatment of lymphoma patients is not yet standardized, and many questions remain to be answered in prospective trials. As lymphoma biology is better understood,
new drugs arrived in clinical trials and some of them could
improve our therapeutic arsenal.

Intracellular Signaling
In recent years, many new drugs focusing on blockade of
intracellular signaling by the inhibition of enzymes have
showed impressive results in CML and renal cell carcinoma.
Many targets and new molecules are under development
in the field of lymphoma. Temsirolimus, a specific mTOR
inhibitor, and enzastaurin, a protein kinase C beta inhibitor, represent some of these new molecules. Bortezomib,
a proteasome inhibitor, is also under study.

Immunotherapy
With the success encountered by adding anti-CD20 rituximab to chemotherapy, multiple monoclonal antibodies are
in development (Table 13.6). Some are still targeting the
CD20 antigen, but modification in antibody structure may
allow better efficacy: ofatumumab (interesting results in FL
and CLL) (135), veltuzumab, GA-101 are actually under
study. Other monoclonal antibodies have different targets
in order to improve efficacy: anti-CD22 (epratuzumab),
anti-CD80 (galiximab), anti-CD40 (SGN-40 and HCD 122),
and anti-CD4 (zanolimumab). Anti-CD22 linked with an
antiobiotic (calicheamicin) or radioisotope (yttrium 90) are
also under study.

Table 13.6

Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphomas

Oncogene Modulation and Anti-oncogene
as Lymphoma Treatment
Oncogene activation or tumor-suppressor gene inhibition
is responsible for lymphoma development and progression

Different Monoclonal Antibodies Currently Available for the Treatment of Patients with Lymphoma

Antibody

Antigen

Conjugate

Proven efficacy

Rituximab (MabThera, Rituxan)

CD20

None

Ofatumumab
Veltuzumab
GA-101
Epratuzumab (Lymphocide)
SGN-40
Galiximab
Alemtuzumab (Campath)
Zanolimumab
Ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin)
Tositumomab (Bexxar)

CD20
CD20
CD20
CD22
CD40
CD80
CD52
CD4
CD20
CD20

None
None
None
None
None
None
None
None
Y-90
I-131

Follicular lymphoma and DLCL in combination
with chemotherapy
In testing
In testing
In testing
In testing
In testing
In testing
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia
In testing
Progression after rituximab
Progression after rituximab

258

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

through numerous mechanisms, which are still only partially understood. Modulation of the activity of these genes
could be a promising future challenge. Gene modulation
may be attempted with cell surface receptor stimulation or
inhibition, antisense therapy (e.g., bcl2 antisense) (139),
genetic modulation. Few of these have demonstrated the
efficacy and progressed to clinical application.

Drug Resistance
Several mechanisms of acquired resistance to anticancer
drugs have been described, but multiple drug resistance
(MDR) is the best known. Although fewer than 5% of
lymphoma cells are MDR+ at diagnosis, the percentage
increases in progressing patients. The precise role of drug
resistance is unknown, but it may account for most of the
observed failures; this needs to be analyzed in the future,
as do inhibitors of the different mechanisms (140).

CONCLUSION
Lymphoma is a category of cancers comprising different
entities, and several of them may be cured with adapted
strategies based on disease risk, with complete cure being
the ultimate aim. Complete remission is however not
always possible, and it is usually achieved with first-line
therapy, but high-dose therapy may be needed for relapsing or partial response patients. However, definitive strategies are still unknown, and involving patients in
prospective trials is highly recommended. Better outcome
may be observed in patients treated by physicians with
extensive experience in this complicated disease. Physicians who treat fewer than 20 patients a year would be
well advised to have regular contact with a referral center.
Whatever the treatment and its results, lymphoma patients
have to be followed for years for possible late adverse
effects and late recurrences.

REFERENCES
1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.
7.

Ries LAG, Melbert D, Krapcho M et al., eds. SEER Cancer
Statistics Review, 1975–2004, National Cancer Institute.
Bethesda, MD, 2007.
Pulte D, Gondos A, Brenner H. Ongoing improvement in
outcomes for patients diagnosed as having non-Hodgkin
lymphoma from the 1990s to the early 21st century. Arch
Intern Med 2008; 168: 469–76.
Li YH, He YF, Jiang WQ et al. Lamivudine prophylaxis
reduces the incidence and severity of hepatitis in hepatitis
B virus carriers who receive chemotherapy for lymphoma.
Cancer 2006; 106: 1320–5.
Besson C, Canioni D, Lepage E et al. Characteristics and
outcome of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in hepatitis C
virus-positive patients in LNH 93 and LNH 98 Groupe
d’Etude des Lymphomes de l’Adulte programs. J Clin Oncol
2006; 24: 953–60.
Mavromatis BH, Cheson BD. Pre- and post-treatment evaluation of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol 2002; 15: 429–47.
Seam P, Juweid ME, Cheson BD. The role of FDG-PET scans
in patients with lymphoma. Blood 2007; 110: 3507–16.
Juweid ME, Stroobants S, Hoekstra OS et al. Use of positron
emission tomography for response assessment of lymphoma:
consensus of the Imaging Subcommittee of International

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.
17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

Harmonization Project in Lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25:
571–8.
Federico M, Vitolo U, Zinzani PL et al. Prognosis of follicular lymphoma: a predictive model based on a retrospective
analysis of 987 cases. Blood 2000; 95: 783–9.
Coiffier B, Salles G, Bastion Y. Prognostic factors in nonHodgkin’s lymphoma. In: Magrath IT, ed. The Non-Hodgkin’s
Lymphomas, 2nd edn. London: Adward Arnold Ltd, 1997:
739–68.
The international non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma prognostic
factors project. A predictive model for aggressive nonHodgkin’s lymphoma. N Engl J Med 1993; 329: 987–94.
Bastion Y, Berger F, Bryon PA et al. Follicular lymphomas:
assessment of prognostic factors in 127 patients followed for
10 years. Ann Oncol 1991; 9: 123–9.
Coiffier B, Neidhardt-Berard EM, Tilly H et al. Fludarabine
alone compared to CHVP plus interferon in elderly patients
with follicular lymphoma and adverse prognostic parameters: a GELA study. Ann Oncol 1999; 10: 1191–7.
Coiffier B, Lepage E. Prognosis of aggressive lymphoma: a
study of five prognostic models with patients included in
the LNH-84 regimen. Blood 1989; 74: 558–64.
Armitage JO, Weisenburger DD. New approach to classifying non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas: clinical features of the major
histologic subtypes. J Clin Oncol 1998; 16: 2780–95.
Solal-Celigny P, Roy P. Follicular Lymphoma International
Prognostic Index (FLIPI). In: 8th International Conference on
Malignant Lymphoma, 12–15 June 2002, Lugano, Switzerland.
Ann Oncol 2002: 18.
Lossos IS, Morgensztern D. Prognostic biomarkers in diffuse
large B-cell lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 995–1007.
Mounier N, Briere J, Gisselbrecht C et al. Estimating the
impact of rituximab on bcl-2-associated resistance to CHOP
in elderly patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
Haematologica 2006; 91: 715–16.
Rosenwald A, Wright G, Chan WC et al. The use of molecular profiling to predict survival after chemotherapy for
diffuse large-B-cell lymphoma. N Engl J Med 2002; 346:
1937–47.
Shipp MA, Ross KN, Tamayo P et al. Diffuse large B-cell
lymphoma outcome prediction by gene-expression profiling and supervised machine learning. Nat Med 2002; 8:
68–74.
Dave SS, Wright G, Tan B et al. Prediction of survival in
follicular lymphoma based on molecular features of tumorinfiltrating immune cells. N Engl J Med 2004; 351:
2159–69.
Gulmann C, Espina V, Petricoin E 3rd et al. Proteomic
analysis of apoptotic pathways reveals prognostic factors in
follicular lymphoma. Clin Cancer Res 2005; 11: 5847–55.
Jaffe ES, Harris NL, Stein H et al. World Health Organization
Classification of Tumours: Pathology and Genetics of
Tumours of Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissues. Lyon:
IARC Press, 2001.
A clinical evaluation of the International Lymphoma Study
Group classification of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. The nonHodgkin’s lymphoma classification project. Blood 1997; 89:
3909–18.
Armitage JO, Weisenburger DD. New approach to classifying
non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas: clinical features of the major histologic subtypes. Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma classification
project. J Clin Oncol 1998; 16: 2780–95.
Tsimberidou AM, Wen S, O’Brien S et al. Assessment of
chronic lymphocytic leukemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma by absolute lymphocyte counts in 2,126 patients:
20 years of experience at the University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 4648–56.
Zent CS, Ding W, Schwager SM et al. The prognostic significance of cytopenia in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/

Chapter 13:

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.
41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

small lymphocytic lymphoma. Br J Haematol 2008; 141:
615–21.
Shanafelt TD, Geyer SM, Kay NE. Prognosis at diagnosis:
integrating molecular biologic insights into clinical practice
for patients with CLL. Blood 2004; 103: 1202–10.
Thieblemont C, Berger F, Dumontet C et al. Mucosa-associated
lymphoid tissue lymphoma is a disseminated disease in one
third of 158 patients analyzed. Blood 2000; 95: 802–6.
Zucca E, Bertoni F, Roggero E et al. The gastric marginal
zone B-cell lymphoma of MALT type. Blood 2000; 96:
410–19.
Thieblemont C. Clinical presentation and management of
marginal zone lymphomas. Hematology Am Soc Hematol
Educ Program 2005: 307–13.
Liu H, Ruskon-Fourmestraux A, Lavergne-Slove A et al.
Resistance of t(11;18) positive gastric mucosa-associated
lymphoid tissue lymphoma to Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy. Lancet 2001; 357: 39–40.
Koch P, del Valle F, Berdel WE et al. Primary gastrointestinal non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma: II. Combined surgical and
conservative or conservative management only in localized
gastric lymphoma—Results of the Prospective German
Multicenter Study GIT NHL 01/92. J Clin Oncol 2001; 19:
3874–83.
Thieblemont C, Felman P, Callet-Bauchu E et al. Splenic
marginal-zone lymphoma: a distinct clinical and pathological
entity. Lancet Oncol 2003; 4: 95–103.
Matutes E, Oscier D, Montalban C et al. Splenic marginal
zone lymphoma proposals for a revision of diagnostic, staging
and therapeutic criteria. Leukemia 2008; 22: 487–95.
Thieblemont C, Felman P, Berger F et al. Treatment of
splenic marginal zone B-cell lymphoma: an analysis of
81 patients. Clin Lymphoma 2002; 3: 41–7.
Berger F, Felman P, Thieblemont C et al. Non-MALT marginal
zone B-cell lymphomas: a description of clinical presentation
and outcome in 124 patients. Blood 2000; 95: 1950–6.
Owen RG, Treon SP, Al-Katib A et al. Clinicopathological
definition of Waldenstrom’s macroglobulinemia: consensus
panel recommendations from the Second International
Workshop on Waldenstrom’s Macroglobulinemia. Semin
Oncol 2003; 30: 110–15.
Hans CP, Weisenburger DD, Vose JM et al. A significant
diffuse component predicts for inferior survival in grade 3
follicular lymphoma, but cytologic subtypes do not predict
survival. Blood 2003; 101: 2363–7.
Elenitoba-Johnson KSJ, Gascoyne RD, Lim MS et al.
Homozygous deletions at chromosome 9p21 involving P16
and P15 are associated with histologic progression in follicle
center lymphoma. Blood 1998; 91: 4677–85.
Solal-Celigny P, Roy P, Colombat P et al. Follicular lymphoma
international prognostic index. Blood 2004; 104: 1258–65.
Cerhan JR, Wang S, Maurer MJ et al. Prognostic significance
of host immune gene polymorphisms in follicular lymphoma survival. Blood 2007; 109: 5439–46.
Advani R, Rosenberg SA, Horning SJ. Stage I and II follicular
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma: long-term follow-up of no initial
therapy. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 1454–9.
Ardeshna KM, Smith P, Norton A et al. Long-term effect of
a watch and wait policy versus immediate systemic treatment for asymptomatic advanced-stage non-Hodgkin lymphoma: a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2003; 362:
516–22.
Witzig TE, Vukov AM, Habermann TM et al. Rituximab
therapy for patients with newly diagnosed, advanced-stage,
follicular grade I non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma: a phase II trial
in the North Central Cancer Treatment Group. J Clin Oncol
2005; 23: 1103–8.
Salles G, Mounier N, De Guibert S et al. Rituximab combined
with chemotherapy and interferon in follicular lymphoma

46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphomas

259

patients: final analysis of the GELA-GOELAMS FL2000
Study with a 5-year follow-up. Blood 2007, abstract 792.
Marcus R, Imrie K, Belch A et al. CVP chemotherapy
plus rituximab compared with CVP as first-line treatment
for advanced follicular lymphoma. Blood 2005; 105:
1417–23.
Hiddemann W, Kneba M, Dreyling M et al. Front-line therapy with rituximab added to the combination of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP)
significantly improves the outcome for patients with
advanced-stage follicular lymphoma compared with therapy
with CHOP alone: results of a prospective randomized
study of the German Low-Grade Lymphoma Study Group.
Blood 2005; 106: 3725–32.
Herold M, Haas A, Srock S et al. Rituximab added to firstline mitoxantrone, chlorambucil, and prednisolone chemotherapy followed by interferon maintenance prolongs
survival in patients with advanced follicular lymphoma: an
East German Study Group Hematology and Oncology
Study. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 1986–92.
Fisher RI, LeBlanc M, Press OW et al. New treatment options
have changed the survival of patients with follicular
lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 8447-52.
Sebban C, Brice P, Delarue R et al. Impact of rituximab and/
or high-dose therapy with autotransplant at time of relapse
in patients with follicular lymphoma: a GELA study. J Clin
Oncol 2008; 26: 3614-20.
Hainsworth JD, Litchy S, Shaffer DW et al. Maximizing
therapeutic benefit of rituximab: maintenance therapy versus re-treatment at progression in patients with indolent
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma—a randomized phase II trial of
the Minnie Pearl Cancer Research Network. J Clin Oncol
2005; 23: 1088–95.
Ghielmini M, Schmitz SF, Cogliatti SB et al. Prolonged treatment with rituximab in patients with follicular lymphoma
significantly increases event-free survival and response
duration compared with the standard weekly × 4 schedule.
Blood 2004; 103: 4416–23.
van Oers MH, Klasa R, Marcus RE et al. Rituximab maintenance improves clinical outcome of relapsed/resistant
follicular non-Hodgkin lymphoma in patients both with
and without rituximab during induction: results of a prospective randomized phase 3 intergroup trial. Blood 2006;
108: 3295–301.
Forstpointner R, Unterhalt M, Dreyling M et al. Maintenance
therapy with rituximab leads to a significant prolongation
of response duration after salvage therapy with a combination of rituximab, fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and
mitoxantrone (R-FCM) in patients with recurring and refractory follicular and mantle cell lymphomas: results of a
prospective randomized study of the German Low Grade
Lymphoma Study Group (GLSG). Blood 2006; 108: 4003–8.
Schouten HC, Qian W, Kvaloy S et al. High-dose therapy
improves progression-free survival and survival in relapsed
follicular non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma: results from the randomized European CUP trial. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21:
3918–27.
Rohatiner AZ, Nadler L, Davies AJ et al. Myeloablative
therapy with autologous bone marrow transplantation for
follicular lymphoma at the time of second or subsequent
remission: long-term follow-up. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25:
2554–9.
Fisher RI, Kaminski MS, Wahl RL et al. Tositumomab
and iodine-131 tositumomab produces durable complete
remissions in a subset of heavily pretreated patients with
low-grade and transformed non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas.
J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 7565–73.
Witzig TE, Gordon LI, Cabanillas F et al. Randomized controlled trial of yttrium-90-labeled ibritumomab tiuxetan

260

59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

65.

66.

67.

68.

69.

70.

71.

72.

73.
74.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
radioimmunotherapy versus rituximab immunotherapy for
patients with relapsed or refractory low-grade, follicular, or
transformed B-cell non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. J Clin Oncol
2002; 20: 2453–63.
Kaminski MS, Tuck M, Estes J et al. 131I-tositumomab therapy as initial treatment for follicular lymphoma. N Engl J
Med 2005; 352: 441–9.
Rohatiner AZ, Gregory WM, Peterson B et al. Meta-analysis
to evaluate the role of interferon in follicular lymphoma.
J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 2215–23.
Liu Q, Fayad L, Cabanillas F et al. Improvement of overall
and failure-free survival in stage IV follicular lymphoma:
25 years of treatment experience at The University of Texas
M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24:
1582–9.
Sacchi S, Pozzi S, Marcheselli L et al. Introduction of
rituximab in front-line and salvage therapies has improved
outcome of advanced-stage follicular lymphoma patients.
Cancer 2007; 109: 2077–82.
Samaha H, Dumontet C, Ketterer N et al. Mantle cell
lymphoma: a retrospective study of 121 cases. Leukemia
1998; 12: 1281–7.
Herrmann A, Hoster E, Dreyling M et al. Improvement of
overall survival in mantle cell lymphoma during the last
decades. In: American Society of Hematology Annual
Meeting. Orlando, Florida, 2006.
Howard OM, Gribben JG, Neuberg DS et al. Rituximab and
CHOP induction therapy for newly diagnosed mantle-cell
lymphoma: molecular complete responses are not predictive
of progression-free survival. J Clin Oncol 2002; 20:
1288–94.
Foran JM, Rohatiner AZS, Cunningham D et al. European
phase II study of rituximab (chimeric anti-CD20 monoclonal
antibody) for patients with newly diagnosed mantle-cell
lymphoma and previously treated mantle-cell lymphoma,
immunocytoma, and small B-cell lymphocytic lymphoma.
J Clin Oncol 2000; 18: 317–24.
Khouri IF, Romaguera J, Kantarjian H et al. Hyper-CVAD
and high-dose methotrexate/cytarabine followed by stemcell transplantation: an active regimen for aggressive
mantle-cell lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 1998; 16: 3803–9.
Dreyling M, Lenz G, Hoster E et al. Early consolidation by
myeloablative radiochemotherapy followed by autologous
stem cell transplantation in first remission significantly prolongs progression-free survival in mantle-cell lymphoma:
results of a prospective randomized trial of the European
MCL Network. Blood 2005; 105: 2677–84.
Thieblemont C, Antal D, Lacotte-Thierry L et al. Chemotherapy with rituximab followed by high-dose therapy and
autologous stem cell transplantation in patients with mantle
cell lymphoma. Cancer 2005; 104: 1434-41.
Tigaud JD, Demolombe S, Bastion Y et al. Ifosfamide continuous infusion plus etoposide in the treatment of elderly
patients with aggressive lymphoma. A phase II study.
Hematol Oncol 1991; 9: 225–33.
Rosenwald A, Wright G, Chan WC et al. The use of molecular profiling to predict survival after chemotherapy for
diffuse large-B-cell lymphoma. N Engl J Med 2002; 346:
1937–47.
Fisher RI, Gaynor ER, Dahlberg S et al. Comparison of a
standard regimen (CHOP) with three intensive chemotherapy regimens for advanced non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma.
N Engl J Med 1993; 328: 1002–6.
Coiffier B. Increasing chemotherapy intensity in aggressive
lymphomas: a renewal? J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 2457–9.
Tilly H, Lepage E, Coiffier B et al. Intensive conventional
chemotherapy (ACVBP regimen) compared with standard

75.

76.

77.

78.

79.

80.

81.

82.

83.

84.

85.

86.

87.

88.

89.

CHOP for poor-prognosis aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Blood 2003; 102: 4284–9.
Coiffier B. Fourteen years of high-dose CHOP (ACVB regimen): preliminary conclusions about the treatment of
aggressive-lymphoma patients. Ann Oncol 1995; 6: 211–17.
Tilly H, Mounier N, Lederlin P et al. Randomized comparison of ACVBP and m-BACOD in the treatment of
patients with low-risk aggressive lymphoma: the
LNH87-1 study. J Clin Oncol 2000; 18: 1309–15.
Pfreundschuh M, Trumper L, Kloess M et al. Two-weekly
or 3-weekly CHOP chemotherapy with or without etoposide
for the treatment of young patients with good-prognosis
(normal LDH) aggressive lymphomas: results of the NHL-B1
trial of the DSHNHL. Blood 2004; 104: 626–33.
Pfreundschuh M, Trumper L, Kloess M et al. Two-weekly
or 3-weekly CHOP chemotherapy with or without etoposide
for the treatment of elderly patients with aggressive lymphomas: results of the NHL-B2 trial of the DSHNHL. Blood
2004; 104: 634–41.
Pfreundschuh M, Trumper L, Osterborg A et al. CHOP-like
chemotherapy plus rituximab versus CHOP-like chemotherapy alone in young patients with good-prognosis diffuse
large-B-cell lymphoma: a randomised controlled trial by the
MabThera International Trial (MInT) Group. Lancet Oncol
2006; 7: 379–91.
Pfreundschuh M, Schubert J, Ziepert M et al. Six versus
eight cycles of bi-weekly CHOP-14 with or without rituximab in elderly patients with aggressive CD20+ B-cell lymphomas: a randomised controlled trial (RICOVER-60). Lancet
Oncol 2008; 9: 105–16.
Feugier P, Van Hoof A, Sebban C et al. Long-term results
of the R-CHOP study in the treatment of elderly patients
with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma: a study by the Groupe
d’Etude des Lymphomes de l’Adulte. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23:
4117–26.
Coiffier B, Lepage E, Briere J et al. CHOP chemotherapy
plus rituximab compared with CHOP alone in elderly
patients with diffuse large-B-cell lymphoma. N Engl J Med
2002; 346: 235–42.
Habermann TM, Weller EA, Morrison VA et al. RituximabCHOP versus CHOP alone or with maintenance rituximab
in older patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. J Clin
Oncol 2006; 24: 3121–7.
Mounier N, Briere J, Gisselbrecht C et al. Rituximab plus
CHOP (R-CHOP) overcomes bcl-2-associated resistance to
chemotherapy in elderly patients with diffuse large B-cell
lymphoma (DLBCL). Blood 2003; 101: 4279–84.
Sehn LH, Donaldson J, Chhanabhai M et al. Introduction of
combined CHOP plus rituximab therapy dramatically
improved outcome of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in
British Columbia. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 5027–33.
Milpied N, Deconinck E, Gaillard F et al. Initial treatment
of aggressive lymphoma with high-dose chemotherapy and
autologous stem-cell support. N Engl J Med 2004; 350:
1287–95.
Haioun C, Lepage E, Gisselbrecht C et al. Survival benefit
of high-dose therapy in poor-risk aggressive non-Hodgkin’s
lymphoma: final analysis of the prospective LNH87-2
protocol—A Groupe d’Etude des Lymphomes de l’Adulte
Study. J Clin Oncol 2000; 18: 3025–30.
Miller TP, Dahlberg S, Cassady JR et al. Chemotherapy
alone compared with chemotherapy plus radiotherapy
for localized intermediate-and high-grade non-Hodgkin’s
lymphoma. N Engl J Med 1998; 339: 21–6.
Reyes F, Lepage E, Ganem G et al. ACVBP versus CHOP
plus radiotherapy for localized aggressive lymphoma.
N Engl J Med 2005; 352: 1197–205.

Chapter 13:
90.

91.

92.
93.

94.

95.

96.
97.

98.

99.

100.

101.

102.

103.

104.

105.

106.

107.

108.

Bonnet C, Fillet G, Mounier N et al. CHOP alone compared
with CHOP plus radiotherapy for localized aggressive lymphoma in elderly patients: a study by the Groupe d’Etude
des Lymphomes de l’Adulte. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 787–92.
Aviles A, Delgado S, Nambo MJ et al. Adjuvant radiotherapy to sites of previous bulky disease in patients stage IV
diffuse large cell lymphoma. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys
1994; 30: 799–803.
Dave SS, Fu K, Wright GW et al. Molecular diagnosis of
Burkitt’s lymphoma. N Engl J Med 2006; 354: 2431–42.
Hummel M, Bentink S, Berger H et al. A biologic definition
of Burkitt’s lymphoma from transcriptional and genomic
profiling. N Engl J Med 2006; 354: 2419–30.
Soussain C, Patte C, Ostronoff M et al. Small noncleaved
cell lymphoma and leukemia in adults—a retrospective
study of 65 adults treated with the lmb pediatric protocols.
Blood 1995; 85: 664–74.
Mead GM, Sydes MR, Walewski J et al. An international
evaluation of CODOX-M and CODOX-M alternating with
IVAC in adult Burkitt’s lymphoma: results of United Kingdom
Lymphoma Group LY06 study. Ann Oncol 2002; 13: 1264–74.
Willemze R, Jaffe ES, Burg G et al. WHO-EORTC classification for cutaneous lymphomas. Blood 2005; 105: 3768–85.
Bouaziz JD, Bastuji-Garin S, Poszepczynska-Guigne E et al.
Relative frequency and survival of patients with primary
cutaneous lymphomas: data from a single-centre study of
203 patients. Br J Dermatol 2006; 154: 1206–7.
Trautinger F, Knobler R, Willemze R et al. EORTC consensus
recommendations for the treatment of mycosis fungoides/
Sezary syndrome. Eur J Cancer 2006; 42: 1014–30.
Armitage J, Vose J, Weisenburger D. International peripheral
T-cell and natural killer/T-cell lymphoma study: pathology
findings and clinical outcomes. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26:
4124-30.
Gisselbrecht C, Gaulard P, Lepage E et al. Prognostic significance of T-cell phenotype in aggressive non-Hodgkins
lymphomas. Blood 1998; 92: 76–82.
Mourad N, Mounier N, Briere J et al. Clinical, biologic, and
pathologic features in 157 patients with angioimmunoblastic
T-cell lymphoma treated within the Groupe d’Etude des
Lymphomes de l’Adulte (GELA) trials. Blood 2008; 111:
4463–70.
Kyriakou C, Canals C, Goldstone A et al. High-dose therapy
and autologous stem-cell transplantation in angioimmunoblastic lymphoma: complete remission at transplantation is
the major determinant of outcome-lymphoma working party
of the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 218–24.
Li YX, Yao B, Jin J et al. Radiotherapy as primary treatment
for stage IE and IIE nasal natural killer/T-cell lymphoma.
J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 181–9.
Project IT-CL. International peripheral T-cell and natural
killer/T-cell lymphoma study: pathology findings and clinical outcomes. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 4124–30 (epublished
ahead of print).
Falini B, Pileri S, Zinzani PL et al. ALK(+) lymphoma:
clinico-pathological findings and outcome. Blood 1999; 93:
2697–706.
Tilly H, Gaulard P, Lepage E et al. Primary anaplastic largecell lymphoma in adults: clinical presentation, immunophenotype, and outcome. Blood 1997; 90: 3727–34.
Gascoyne RD, Aoun P, Wu D et al. Prognostic significance
of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) protein expression in
adults with anaplastic large cell lymphoma. Blood 1999; 93:
3913–21.
Savage KJ, Harris NL, Vose JM et al. ALK-negative anaplastic
large-cell lymphoma (ALCL) is clinically and immunophenotypically different from both ALK-positive ALCL and

109.

110.

111.

112.

113.

114.

115.

116.

117.

118.

119.

120.

121.

122.

123.

124.

125.

Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphomas

261

peripheral T-cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified: report
from the International Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma Project.
Blood 2008; 111: 5496–504.
Maitra A, McKenna RW, Weinberg AG et al. Precursor B-cell
lymphoblastic lymphoma. A study of nine cases lacking
blood and bone marrow involvement and review of the
literature. Am J Clin Pathol 2001; 115: 868–75.
Hoelzer D, Gokbuget N. Treatment of lymphoblastic lymphoma in adults. Best Pract Res Clin Hematol 2002; 15:
713–28.
Hoelzer D, Gokbuget N, Digel W et al. Outcome of adult
patients with T-lymphoblastic lymphoma treated according
to protocols for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Blood 2002;
99: 4379–85.
The NHLClassification Project. Effect of age on the characteristics and clinical behavior of non-Hodgkins lymphoma
patients. Ann Oncol 1997; 8: 973–8.
Thieblemont C, Grossoeuvre A, Houot R et al. Non-Hodgkin’s
lymphoma in very elderly patients over 80 years. A descriptive analysis of clinical presentation and outcome. Ann
Oncol 2008; 19: 774–9.
Coiffier B. Treatment paradigms in aggressive non-Hodgkin’s
lymphoma in elderly patients. Clin Lymphoma 2002; 3:
S12–18.
Peters FPJ, Lalisang RI, Fickers MMF et al. Treatment of
elderly patients with intermediate- and high-grade nonHodgkin’s lymphoma: a retrospective population-based
study. Ann Hematol 2001; 80: 155–9.
Tirelli U, Errante D, Vanglabbeke M et al. CHOP is the
standard regimen in patients greater-than or equal-to
70 years of age with intermediate-grade and high-grade
non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma. Results of a randomized study
of the European Organization for Research and Treatment
of Cancer Lymphoma Cooperative Study Group. J Clin
Oncol 1998; 16: 27–34.
Picozzi VJ, Pohlman BL, Morrison VA et al. Patterns of chemotherapy administration in patients with intermediate-grade
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Oncology 2001; 15: 1296–306.
Hanto DW. Classification of Epstein-Barr virus-associated
posttransplant lymphoproliferative diseases. Implications
for understanding their pathogenesis and developing rational treatment strategies. Annu Rev Med 1995; 46: 381–94.
Verschuuren EAM, Stevens SJC, Van Imhoff GW et al. Treatment of posttransplant lymphoproliferatieve disease with
rituximab: the remission, the relapse, and the complication.
Transplantation 2002; 73: 100–4.
Mounier N, Spina M, Gisselbrecht C. Modern management
of non-Hodgkin lymphoma in HIV-infected patients. Br J
Haematol 2007; 136: 685–98.
Besson C, Goubar A, Gabarre J et al. Changes in AIDS-related
lymphoma since the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy.
Blood 2001; 98: 2339–44.
Gale J, Simmonds PD, Mead GM et al. Enteropathy-type
intestinal T-cell lymphoma: clinical features and treatment
of 31 patients in a single center. J Clin Oncol 2000; 18:
795–803.
DeAngelis LM, Seiferheld W, Schold SC et al. Combination
chemotherapy and radiotherapy for primary central nervous
system lymphoma: Radiation Therapy Oncology Group
study 93-10. J Clin Oncol 2002; 20: 4643–8.
Ferreri AJM, Abrey LE, Blay JY et al. Summary statement
on primary central nervous system lymphomas from the
Eighth International Conference on Malignant Lymphoma,
Lugano, Switzerland, June 12 to 15, 2002. J Clin Oncol 2003;
21: 2407–14.
Cheson BD, Horning SJ, Coiffier B et al. Report of an
international workshop to standardize response criteria for
non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas. J Clin Oncol 1999; 17: 1244–53.

262
126.

127.

128.

129.

130.

131.

132.

133.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
Cheson BD, Pfistner B, Juweid ME et al. Revised response
criteria for malignant lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25:
579–86.
Salles G, Shipp MA, Coiffier B. Chemotherapy of non-Hodgkin’s aggressive lymphomas. Semin Hematol 1994; 31:
46–69.
Philip T, Guglielmi C, Hagenbeek A et al. Autologous
bone marrow transplantation as compared with salvage
chemotherapy in relapses of chemotherapy-sensitive non
Hodgkin’s lymphoma. N Engl J Med 1995; 333: 1540–5.
Shipp MA, Abeloff MD, Antman KH et al. International
consensus conference on high-dose therapy with
hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation in aggressive nonHodgkin’s lymphomas: report of jury. Ann Oncol 1999; 10:
13–19.
Williams CD, Harrison CN, Lister TA et al. High-dose
therapy and autologous stem-cell support for chemosensitive transformed low-grade follicular non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma: a case-matched study from the European bone
marrow transplant registry. J Clin Oncol 2001; 19:
727–35.
Andre M, Mounier N, Leleu X et al. Second cancers and
late toxicities after treatment of aggressive non-Hodgkin
lymphoma with the ACVBP regimen: a GELA cohort study
on 2837 patients. Blood 2004; 103: 1222–8.
Ruiz-Soto R, Sergent G, Gisselbrecht C et al. Estimating late
adverse events using competing risks after autologous stemcell transplantation in aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma
patients. Cancer 2005; 104: 2735–42.
Metayer C, Curtis RE, Vose J et al. Myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia after autotransplantation
for lymphoma: a multicenter case-control study. Blood 2003;
101: 2015–23.

134.

135.

136.
137.

138.

139.

140.
141.

142.

Elis A, Tevet A, Yerushalmi R et al. Fertility status among
women treated for aggressive non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma.
Leuk Lymphoma 2006; 47: 623–7.
Coiffier B, Lepretre S, Pedersen LM et al. Safety and efficacy
of ofatumumab, a fully human monoclonal anti-CD20 antibody,
in patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia: a phase 1-2 study. Blood 2008; 111: 1094–100.
Chanan-Khan AA, Cheson BD. Lenalidomide for the treatment of B-cell malignancies. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 1544–52.
Kim Y, Reddy S, Kim E et al. Romidepsin (depsipeptide)
induces clinically significant responses in treatment-refractory CTCL: an international, multicenter study. Blood 2007
Abst 123 idem.
Olsen EA, Kim YH, Kuzel TM et al. Phase IIb multicenter
trial of vorinostat in patients with persistent, progressive, or
treatment refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. J Clin
Oncol 2007; 25: 3109–15.
O’Brien S, Moore JO, Boyd TE et al. Randomized phase III
trial of fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide with or without
oblimersen sodium (Bcl-2 antisense) in patients with relapsed
or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. J Clin Oncol
2007; 25: 1114–20.
Hersey P, Zhang XD. Overcoming resistance of cancer cells
to apoptosis. J Cell Physiol 2003; 196: 9–18.
Coiffier B, Gisselbrecht C, Herbrecht R et al. LNH-84 regimen: a multicenter study of intensive chemotherapy in
737 patients with aggressive malignant lymphoma. J Clin
Oncol 1989; 7: 1018–26.
Hochster H, Weller E, Gascoyne RD, et al. Maintenance
rituximab after cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisone prolongs progression-free survival in advanced indolent
lymphoma: results of the randomized phase III ECOG1496
Study. J Clin Oncol 2009; 27: 1607–14.

14
1
Hodgkin Lymphoma
Sandra J. Horning

CD95 death pathway (through constituitive cellular Fasassociated death domain-like interleukin-1β-converting
enzyme inhibitory protein, c-FLIP). HL manipulates its
microenvironment (Fig. 14.1A) to suppress the immune
response, attracting T helper and regulatory cells and reducing cytotoxic T and NK cells. Signals from the environment,
acting through tumor necrosis factor receptors on HL cells,
sustain HL through the activation of the NF-κB pathway.
Despite the progress, understanding of the nature of the
transforming events and the complex interaction of the
genetic features, environmental factors, and the immune system of affected individuals remains incomplete and the
subject of ongoing inquiry (8).
Classical HL is diagnosed by the morphologic appearance of multinucleate Reed-Sternberg cells (Fig. 14.1B) in
an appropriate background of small lymphocytes, eosinophils,
neutrophils, histiocytes, plasma cells, and fibroblasts. An
adequate biopsy is required, and flow cytometry does not
provide beneficial information. Classical HL includes four
subtypes: nodular sclerosis, mixed cellularity, lymphocyterich, and lymphocyte-depleted (Table 14.1). Almost all
cases express CD30, a marker of B-cell activation, and 87%
express the myelomonocytic marker CD15, but the expression of the pan-B-cell marker CD20 is uncommon (5–25%
cases). Faint PAX 5 expression is consistent with B lineage.
Nodular sclerosis represents about two-thirds of cases in
the developed world, whereas lymphocyte-depleted is rarely
diagnosed. Lymphocyte-rich subtype is an uncommon,
relatively recently defined entity (1). Nodular lymphocytepredominant HL (NLPHL) is characterized by unique,
malignant “popcorn” cells, which express the B-cell antigen
CD20, but not CD15 or CD30. As described below, clinical
features of HL vary with histologic subtype. The new
World Health Organization classification of hematolymphoid malignancies includes a provisional diagnosis of a
B-cell lymphoma, unclassifiable, with features intermediate
between diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and classical HL
(1). This diagnosis has features of HL (CD30+, CD15+ pleomorphic cells resembling Hodgkin cells) but also retains
features of large cell lymphoma and is CD20+. Notably, the
prominent inflammatory background of classical HL is
sparse in this provisional entity.

INTRODUCTION
Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) is an uncommon lymphoid malignancy with an incidence of about 3 per 100,000 in Western
Europe and the United States. Occurring at all ages, the
incidence of HL peaks in young adults, and a second, smaller
peak is seen after age 60. The diagnosis is made based on
an adequate tissue biopsy demonstrating multinucleate
Reed-Sternberg cells and their mononuclear variants, which
constitute only about 1% to 10% of the total cell population,
in an appropriate cellular background (1). With modern
diagnostic evaluation and therapy, HL is curable in every
stage, leading to emphasis on minimizing adverse effects
of treatment and optimizing survivorship. Although clinical factors are prognostic, they are not adequate to reliably
identify individual patients at risk for treatment failure.
Therefore, ongoing investigative efforts aim to adapt a
therapy to early response, identify predictive tissue biomarkers at diagnosis, and develop novel therapeutics
targeted to HL.

ETIOLOGY, BIOLOGY, AND PATHOLOGIC
CLASSIFICATION
The cause of HL is unknown, but the B-cell tropic EpsteinBarr virus (EBV) has been implicated, as the clonal viral
genome is detected in about 40% of HL cases, and EBV+
HL in young adults is associated with a history of infectious
mononucleosis (2–4). However, EBV+ HL is more common
in children and older adults, suggesting that the maturity
of the immune system may be related. Genetic susceptibility
also plays a role as indicated by the familial aggregation
and the observation of a 100-fold increased risk in monozygotic twins when compared with dizygotic twins (5). HLA
subtypes are also associated with reduced or increased risks
of EBV+ HL (6). Together, these data support the hypothesis
that HL may be related to a genetically associated immune
response to an environmental pathogen.
The malignant Hodgkin/Reed-Sternberg cells do not
resemble any normal hematopoietic cell by surface marker
expression, and their relative scarcity in tissue samples
complicated molecular analysis for years. Single-cell microdissection studies eventually elucidated the origin as a B-cell
with nonproductively rearranged immunoglobulin heavy
chains, down-regulated B-cell-specific transcription factors,
and down-regulated signaling pathways (7). HL cells must
rely on alternative survival and proliferative pathways,
such as nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB, via EBV or tumor
necrosis receptor family members) and inhibition of the

CINICAL FEATURES, STAGING,
AND DIAGNOSTIC EVALUATION
HL typically presents with painless supradiaphragmatic
adenopathy, particularly in the low neck and supraclavicular
263

264

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

(A)

IL13 / IL13 R
IL9 / IL9R
IL6 / IL6R
TNFα/ TNFαR
Notch1 / Jagged 1

EpsteinBarr virus
Th2
Treg

LMP-1

RANK/ RANKL

CD40L

↑NF-κΒ

Eosinophil
CD30L

CD30
Mast cell

CD40
IL9,
CCL5

TARC,
Galectin 1

TNFα

PD1L
PD1

TNFα
↑NF-κΒ

Th1
IL10
TGF-Β

Macrophage

(B)

Immunophenotype

Nodular lymphocyte-predominant
CD20+ CD30– CD15– Ig+
Classical
CD20–a CD30+ CD15+b Ig–
Nodular sclerosis
Mixed cellularity
Lymphocyte-rich
Lymphocyte-depleted
CD20+b CD30+b CD15+b, Ig–
Grey zone/provisional
B-cell lymphoma, unclassifiable,
with feature intermediate
between diffuse large B-cell
lymphoma and classical Hodgkin
lymphoma
Infrequently positive.
usually positive.

b

Figure 14.1 Hodgkin Reed-Sternberg
cell and its microenvironment: (A) interactions that result in immunosuppression
and favor survival; (B) photomicrography.
Abbreviations: IL13, Interleukin-13; IL13R,
Interleukin-13 receptor; IL9, Interleukin-9;
IL9R, Interleukin-9 receptor; IL6, Interleukin-6;
IL6R, Interleukin-6 receptor; NF-κB, Nuclear
Factor kappa B; RANK, receptor activator for
NFκB; LMP, latent membrane protein; TARC,
thymus and activation regulated chemokine;
PD1, programmed death-1; TGF-B, transforming growth factor beta; CSF, colony stimuating
factor; TNF, tumor necrosis factor; CCL5 also
known as RANTES (regulated on activation,
normal T-cell expressed and secreted). See
Color Plate on Page xii.

Classification of Hodgkin Lymphoma

Name

a

Fibroblast

CSF-1

Immuno suppression
fibrosis

Table 14.1

Eotaxin

TNFαR

fossa. Mediastinal involvement is common. Most patients
are asymptomatic, but a proportion has classic constitutional
“B” symptoms of unexplained weight loss, fever, and
drenching night sweats. Pruritus and alcohol-induced pain
in involved lymph nodes are distinctive features in some
patients. Nodular sclerosis subtype involves the mediastinum in 75% of cases and may present in limited or advanced
stage. Older and immunodeficient patients are more likely
to have constitutional symptoms, advanced disease, and
mixed cellularity histology. NLPHL has a marked male
predominance and presents with limited stage, peripheral
adenopathy. Systemic symptoms and mediastinal involvement are uncommon in NLPHL. Lymphocyte-rich subtype
shares many clinical features with NLPHL (9).
The four-stage Ann Arbor system was initially developed to facilitate curative radiation therapy and distinguish

Chapter 14:

Table 14.2

265

Diagnostic Procedures and Staging Criteria for Hodgkin Lymphoma

Recommended diagnostic procedures

Arbor staging system

Confirmation of diagnostic pathology
Immunohistochemistry as indicated
History and physical examination
Attention to constitutional symptoms
Assessment of lymph nodes, spleen, liver
Chest radiograph with measurement of mediastinal
mass ratio
CT scan of chest, abdomen and pelvisa
PET/CT scan whole body
Laboratory studies
Complete blood count, differential
Erythrocyte sedimentation rate
Serum chemistry
Bone marrow biopsy (CS I-IIB, III, IV)

I
II

a

Hodgkin Lymphoma

Involvement of a single lymph node region (I) or a single extralymphatic organ or site (IE)
Involvement of two or more lymph node regions on the same side of the diaphragm
alone (II) or with involvement of limited, contiguous extralymphatic organ or tissue (IIE)
III Involvement of lymph node regions on both sides of the diaphragm (III), which may
include the spleen (IIIS) or limited, contiguous extralymphatic organ or site (IIIE) or
both (IIIES)
IV Multiple or disseminated foci of involvement of one or more extralymphatic organs or
tissues, with or without associated lymph node involvement
Modifying features
A
Asymptomatic
B Drenching night sweats; fever >38°C; Loss of more than 10% body weight in
6 months
X
Bulky disease: >0.33 mediastinal mass ratio; >10 cm
E
Involvement of a single, contiguous, or proximal extranodal site

May limit CT scan to areas positive by whole body PET/CT.

patients requiring systemic treatment (Table 14.2) (10). In
1989, bulky disease and extranodal (E) lesions were added
to constitutional symptoms as modifying features (11). The
dimensions of a mediastinal mass are expressed as the ratio
of the maximum diameter of the mass over the thoracic
diameter on a standing posterior–anterior chest radiograph.
Practically, this measurement is now made by computed
tomography scanning, and lesions greater than 10 cm are
considered bulky. Each stage is given a designation of A
(asymptomatic) or B, with symptoms of drenching night
sweats, documented fever >38 degrees, and unexplained loss
of 10% or more of body weight over the past six months.
Computed tomography of the chest, abdomen, and
pelvis is the main radiographic procedure; the knowledge
that HL typically involves an orderly progression from
one nodal region to contiguous nodal sites should direct
the radiologic review. A bone marrow biopsy is indicated
in patients with B symptoms, subdiaphragmatic stage I-II
presentation, advanced disease, age >60, and known immunodeficiency. Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) has assumed an increasing role in staging
HL. FDG-PET alters the stage and treatment of HL in only
a minority of patients (12). However, the ability of FDGPET to distinguish metabolically active tissue from residual
inactive (scar) tissue increases its predictive accuracy over

Table 14.3

PROGNOSTIC FACTORS
Prognostic factors for limited stage HL were initially based
on the extent of staging and volume of radiation therapy (14).
Table 14.3 shows the prognostic factors for limited disease
as described by the German HL Study Group (GHSG), the
European Organization for the Research and Treatment
of Cancer (EORTC), and those commonly used in North
America (15,16). Although historically based, these prognostic factors are important for the interpretation and translation of recent clinical trials in “favorable” and “unfavorable”
limited stage HL that alter the dose and volume of radiation
or the drugs and cumulative chemotherapy doses.

Prognostic Factors for Hodgkin Lymphoma
Limited stage

EORTC

CT for response assessment (13). Nonetheless, false-positive
results mandate that biopsy remain the standard for assessment of persistent disease and an essential procedure for
evaluating unusual lesions or new sites of abnormal glucose uptake (13). Laboratory evaluation of new patients
should include a complete blood count, metabolic panel,
and erythrocyte sedimentation rate. As stated, a baseline
chest X-ray is the standard by which mediastinal mass size
is determined and can be useful in the long-term follow-up
of patients.

Advanced stage
GHSG

Adverse prognostic factors
MMR ≥0.35
MMR ≥0.35
ESR >30 if symptomatic
ESR >30 if symptomatic
ESR >50 if asymptomatic
ESR >50 if asymptomatic
>3 Ann Arbor sites
>2 Ann Arbor sites
Age ≥50
Extranodal disease
Massive splenic disease
Presence of any factor is considered unfavorable
Two-thirds of limited stage patients have one or more adverse factors
Abbreviations: ESR, erythrocyte sedimentation rate; MMR, mediastinal mass ratio.

International collaborative study
Adverse prognostic factors
Age ≥45 years
Stage IV
Male sex
White blood count ≥15,000/μl
Lymphocyte count <600/μl or <8%
Albumin <4 g/dl
Hemoglobin <10.5 g/dl
Factors summed to yield the international prognostic score
75% of patients have a score of 1–3

266

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

In advanced HL, (Table 14.3) seven prognostic factors, four based on laboratory assessment and three based
on clinical features, are used to derive the International
Prognostic Score of 0 to 7 (17). Most patients have a score
of 2 to 3. The scoring system has proven to be very robust
in the prediction of freedom from disease progression after
initial treatment in multiple clinical trials. The international
prognostic score aids in the interpretation of data from
different studies and has been used for risk-adapted
therapeutic strategies in advanced disease.
Interim FDG-PET scanning, after one to three cycles
of combination chemotherapy, is emerging as an important
indicator of treatment success in HL (18–20). In a consecutive series of 260 bulky and advanced HL patients scanned
after two cycles of standard combination chemotherapy,
FDG-PET-negative patients had a freedom from disease
progression rate of >90% versus <20% in FDG-PET-positive
patients (21). These results require broad confirmation for
clinical practice but have led to a number of “risk-adapted”
clinical trials based on interim PET results. Potentially,
interim PET results can direct the use of intensive chemotherapy and radiotherapy more discriminately.
A variety of serum markers, host genetic factors, and
tissue markers have been identified as prognostic factors
of HL outcomes in correlative studies (22). Elevations in the
serum levels of CD30 (from Hodgkin’s cells), interleukin-10
(from Hodgkin’s cells and host T-cells), tumor necrosis
factor-alpha and its receptor (from Hodgkin’s cells), and
thymus and activating regulator chemokine (TARC, from
Hodgkin’s cells) have been associated with worse prognosis. Bcl-2 (in Hodgkin’s cells), T regulatory, and cytotoxic
T-cells (in the microenvironment) have emerged as the most
robust tissue markers in a number of studies. Although
host polymorphisms in interleukin-6 and interleukin-10 and
polymorphisms that affect drug metabolism have been
implicated, these studies have generally been less robust
(22,23). Prospective assessment of the most promising
markers through carefully designed trials is indicated.

TREATMENT
Limited Stage, Classical HL
Therapy for limited HL without risk factors (Tables 14.4
and 14.5) evolved over the past 10 to 15 years. Based on
concern for serious radiation-related late effects (see below)
and superior efficacy, combined modality treatment with
brief chemotherapy and involved field radiotherapy (IFRT)
supplanted the previous standard of extended field irradiation (EFRT: mantle plus para-aortic and splenic fields)
in limited HL (64). A number of studies demonstrated the
superiority of brief chemotherapy (two to three cycles) plus
EFRT over the prior standard, EFRT alone (24–26). Subsequently, the Milan group reported that IFRT after four
cycles of ABVD (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and
dacarbazine) was as effective as EFRT, with 94% and
97% freedom from progressive disease (FFP) at 10 years,
respectively (27). Similarly, the GHSG reported no advantage to EFRT over IFRT following three to four cycles
of combination chemotherapy in prospective trials (28).
Mature data from the EORTC/GELA H8U study also confirm that EFRT offers no benefit over IFRT after a limited
course of chemotherapy (26).

To further address concerns for late effects of treatment in limited HL patients without risk factors, treatment
programs have been designed to eliminate the risk of leukemia and sterility associated with chemotherapy using
alkylating agents, to further reduce the cumulative exposure and duration of chemotherapy, and to decrease the
dose of IFRT. Freedom from progression (FFP) more than
90% has been reported in favorable, limited HL by the
Stanford and Manchester groups, with just eight and four
weeks of chemotherapy, respectively, followed by IFRT
(29,30). In interim analysis of the GHSG HD10 study, the
FFP at two years was 96.6% and did not differ with two
or four cycles of ABVD followed by IFRT (31). This study
also randomly assigned patients to 20 or 30 Gy IFRT, and
mature data are awaited to determine if the lower dose is
equally effective. In a subsequent four-arm GHSG study,
elimination of bleomycin and dacarbazine in the AV regimen or dacarbazine in the ABV regimen yielded inferior
outcomes to the standard ABVD. On this basis, brief chemotherapy such as two cycles of ABVD with lower dose
(∼30 Gy) IFRT may be considered the standard therapy
for limited classical HL with favorable characteristics. As
discussed below, studies in progress seek to determine if
interim PET scans can further refine the use of chemotherapy
and radiotherapy.
The observation of second cancers and an increased
risk of cardiac death associated with RT delivered in the
1970s and 1980s, together with the favorable long-term
toxicity profile of ABVD relative to alkylating agent-based
treatments, led to the study of chemotherapy alone in limited stage HL without risk factors. The National Cancer
Institute of Canada (NCI-C) and the Eastern Cooperative
Oncology Group (ECOG) tested ABVD alone in a complex
study design, excluding very favorable or bulky disease
patients. FFP at five years was 93% for RT-containing therapy compared with 87% for ABVD × 4–6 (P = 0.006) (32).
No significant differences in event-free or overall survival
were observed. It is difficult to compare these results with
others because patients with favorable characteristics were
randomized to EFRT (later known to be inferior to combined modality therapy) versus ABVD, with no difference
in FFP observed in this subgroup. However, in patients
with less favorable characteristics, combined modality with
ABVD × 2 + IFRT was superior to ABVD (P = 0.004). Based
upon the important primary endpoint of long-term survival and reduction in late adverse effects, proper interpretation of these results awaits long-term follow-up. In
another study conducted by the EORTC/GELA (H9F),
favorable limited stage patients were randomized to chemotherapy alone with epirubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine,
and prednisone (EBVP) versus combined modality therapy.
In this study, the EBVP alone arm was closed early due to
inferior results (P < 0.001) (33). Thus, superior FFP results
indicate that brief chemotherapy and IFRT should remain
the standard for limited favorable HL, but mature analyses
of late effects, second therapies, and overall survival with
chemotherapy alone versus combined modality treatment
will ultimately determine optimal management.
Patients with limited disease and adverse risk factors,
such as bulky mediastinal disease and/or constitutional
symptoms, require additional consideration (Table 14.5). It
is important to note that patients with these unfavorable
characteristics have been managed according to advanced

Chapter 14:

Table 14.4

Hodgkin Lymphoma

267

Combination Chemotherapy for Hodgkin Lymphoma

Drug
COPP
Cyclophosphamide
Vincristine
Procarbazine
Prednisone
ABVD
Doxorubicin
Bleomycin
Vinblastine
Dacarbazine
COPP/ABVDb
BEACOPP (Standard)
Bleomycin
Etoposide
Doxorubicin
Cyclophosphamide
Vincristine
Procarbazine
Prednisone
BEACOPP (Escalated)
Bleomycin
Etoposide
Doxorubicin
Cyclophosphamide
Vincristine
Procarbazine
Prednisone
(G-CSF)
BEACOPP (14-day)c
STANFORD V
Nitrogen mustard
Doxorubicin
Vinblastine
Vincristine
Bleomycin
Etoposide
Prednisone
G-CSF for dose reduction, delay

Dose (mg/m2)

Route

Schedule (days)

650
1.4a
100
40

IV
IV
PO
PO

1,8
1,8
1–14
1–14

25
10
6
375

IV
IV
IV
IV

1,15
1,15
1,15
1,15

Cycle length (days)
28

28

28
21
10
100
25
650
1.4a
100
40

IV
IV
IV
IV
IV
PO
PO

8
1–3
1
1
8
1–7
1–14

10
200
35
1250
1.4a
100
40
(+)

IV
IV
IV
IV
IV
PO
PO
SQ

8
1–3
1
1
8
1–7
1–14
8+

21

14
12 wk
6
25
6
1.4a
5
60 × 2
40 qod

IV
IV
IV
IV
IV
IV
PO

wk 1,5,9
wk 1,3,5,7,9,11
wk 1,3,5,7,9,11
wk 2,4,6,8,10,12
wk 2,4,6,8,10,12
wk 3,7,11
wk 1–10, taper

a

Capped at 2 mg.
Alternate cycles of COPP with ABVD.
Standard BEACOPP given every 14 days with growth factor support; Predoisone d1–7.

b
c

disease protocols in many studies. Two European groups
established that EFRT provided no advantage to IFRT following a limited number of MOP/ABVD or COPP/ABVD
cycles in unfavorable limited HL. The Milan group demonstrated the superiority of ABVD compared with MOPP,
when either was given for six cycles sandwiched around
EFRT, in CS IIA/B patients, a subset of whom had bulky
mediastinal disease (34). As noted above, the subsequent
trial from Milan, which included patients with bulky mediastinal disease, demonstrated the efficacy of ABVD × 4 +
EFRT was the same as ABVD × 4 + IFRT (35). Likewise,
the GHSG reported no advantage for EFRT over IFRT
following two cycles of COPP/ABVD in stage I and II
patients with risk factors (28). The Stanford group reported
96% FFP with the 12 week Stanford V chemotherapy
regimen plus 36 Gy IFRT in bulky CS I-II A/B disease,
although the patient numbers were small relative to the
large multi-institutional trials (36). In interim analyses of

the EORTC/GELA H9U and the GHSG HD 11 studies,
standard bleomycin, etoposide, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (BEACOPP)
was more toxic and no more effective than ABVD combined with ∼30 to 36 Gy RT in this patient population (33,37).
In addition, these results recommend combined modality
treatment with a minimum of four cycles of ABVD chemotherapy and IFRT for limited classical HL with adverse risk
factors (Table 14.5).

Advanced, Classical HL
Through a series of consecutive randomized trials conducted
in the United States and Europe, ABVD chemotherapy was
found to be superior to mustard, vincristine, procarbazine,
and prednisone (MOPP) and less toxic than MOPP/ABVD
or cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (COPP)/ABVD regimens. Likewise, results from a

268

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 14.5

Selected Randomized Clinical Trials in Hodgkin’s Lymphoma

Study (N)

Treatment

Limited stage, favorable, and unfavorable
Milan (140)
4 ABVD + IFRT
4 ABVD + STLI
NCIC-ECOG (399)

Limited stage, favorable
EORTC/GELA H9F(783)

GHSG HD10 (1370)

Limited stage, unfavorable
EORTC/GELA H9U (808)

GHSG HD11 (1422)

Advanced stage
GHSG HD9 (1201)

4–6 ABVD
RT-containing

6 EBVP + 20-IFRT
6 EBVP + 30-IFRT
6 EBVP
2 ABVD + 30-IFRT
2 ABVD + 20-IFRT
4 ABVD + 30-IFRT
4 ABVD + 30-IFRT
6 ABVD + 30-IFRT
4 ABVD + 30-IFRT
4 BEACOPP + 30-IFRT
4 ABVD + 30-IFRT
4 ABVD + 20-IFRT
4 BEACOPP + 30-IFRT
4 BEACOPP+ 20-IFRT
8 COPP/ABV + RT
8 BEACOPP + RT
8 BEACOPPesc + RT

FFS%

OS%

Follow-up (yr)

94
93
P = NS
93
87
P = 0.006

96
94
P = NS
96
94
P = NS

12

88
85
69
P = <0.001
No difference to datea

98
100
98
P = 0.241
4

4

91
87
90
P = NS
No difference to datea

95
94
93
P = NS
2.5

4

69
76
87
P < 0.002

83
88
91
P < 0.002

5

5

a

Interim analysis.
Abbreviations: ABVD, doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine; BEACOPP, bleomycin, etoposide, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine,
prednisone; EBVP, epirubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, prednisone.

United Kingdom trial studying more complex regimens
indicated no advantage over ABVD (38). The GHSG compared standard and escalated BEACOPP (Tables 14.4 and
14.5) regimens, based on a mathematical model that predicted a clinical benefit with modest dose intensification,
compared with their standard COPP/ABVD. The 5- and
10-year results from the HD9 study show superior freedom
from treatment failure (P < 0.002) and overall survival
(P < 0.002) of escalated BEACOPP compared to COPP/
ABVD in IIB-IV HL (39,40). Escalated BEACOPP yielded
superior freedom from treatment failure (FFTF) regardless
of international prognostic score. The hematologic toxicity
of BEACOPP was increased but manageable, requiring red
cell and platelet transfusions and frequent hospitalization.
Secondary leukemia was reported in four patients with
standard BEACOPP, nine with escalated BEACOPP, and
one with COPP/ABVD. Importantly, the HD9 study demonstrated a dose–response effect in advanced HL that can
be achieved without stem cell support.
Subsequently, two relatively small studies tested
BEACOPP (escalated and standard cycles) with ABVD
in unfavorable and advanced HL, and these have been
reported in abstracts (41). In both studies, BEACOPP
achieved statistically superior FFP compared with ABVD,

but no difference in survival was observed at about four
years of median follow-up. In the Italian Intergroup study,
the design involved a planned cross over to high-dose
chemotherapy for patients who had recurrent disease
or failed to achieve a very good partial remission (41).
Notably, these recent studies lacked the large sample size
(n = 1201) of the GHSG HD9 study, which provided
the statistical power to determine significant differences
in survival despite small absolute differences. The EORTC
is completing another important study of BEACOPP
compared to ABVD in high IPS patients. It is important to
note that patients >60 years do not tolerate BEACOPP,
and in a small randomized experience from the GHSG,
there was no benefit for BEACOPP compared to COPP/
ABVD (42).
The role of radiotherapy in advanced HL has been
debated over the years. Of note, two-thirds of patients in
the GHSG HD9 study received radiotherapy for residual
or bulky disease (39). A meta-analysis involving 1740
patients in 14 trials comparing combined modality treatment or chemotherapy alone found no benefit for radiotherapy in stage IV patients, and mortality was greater in
patients treated with chemotherapy and radiotherapy (43).
However, these conclusions were limited by the use of

Chapter 14:

outmoded chemotherapy and radiotherapy, dominance by
a few large trials and missing data. A GELA study reported
similar outcomes for remission patients with advanced disease consolidated with two additional cycles of chemotherapy or radiotherapy, and an EORTC found no benefit for
consolidative radiotherapy in advanced stage patients in
complete remission following MOPP/ABV hybrid (44,45).
Interim analyses of the GHSG HD12 study determined that
radiotherapy did not improve FFTF after eight cycles of
escalated or escalated/standard BEACOPP (46,47). Use
of PET avidity at the conclusion of BEACOPP therapy to
guide the use of RT in the GSHG HD15 study appears to
be a reasonable strategy; just 12% of patients were irradiated using the study algorithm (47). Together, these data
demonstrate that RT does not provide a clear benefit after
a full course of doxorubicin-containing chemotherapy.
The Stanford group took another approach to bulky
and advanced (II-IV) disease, limiting the duration of
chemotherapy to 12 weeks, intensifying dose but reducing
cumulative doses, and incorporating radiotherapy to sites
of bulk (>5 cm) disease. Excellent institutional (Stanford,
Memorial Sloan Kettering) and phase II cooperative group
results with the Stanford V + RT regimen led to a large
intergroup comparison of this approach with ABVD (48–50),
the results of which are awaited. Meanwhile, in a small
Italian study the use of Stanford V with variable radiotherapy was inferior to ABVD or another multidrug regimen, suggesting the important role of RT following brief
chemotherapy (51). The recommended treatment for
advanced HL should be based on achieving the least complicated cure as indicated by the FFP rate, anticipated acute
and late complications, and overall survival. ABVD may
be preferred for low or standard risk patients concerned
about fertility and secondary cancers, as the incidence of
refractory disease is low, the opportunity for salvage therapy exists, and the survival benefit remains unconfirmed.
In interim analyses, potentially less toxic alterations of BEACOPP (4 standard + 4 escalated) and BEACOPP-14 appear
to be equally effective although mature results are awaited
(52). Several ongoing studies incorporate interim PET scans
to drive therapeutic escalation or de-escalation in selected
patients.

Nodular, Lymphocyte Predominant
In past, nodular lymphocyte-predominant HL (NLPHL)
was often included with classical disease in prospective
trials (53,54). The excellent prognosis for NLPHL has been
demonstrated in multiple case series and the European
Task Force report, where survivals for stage I and II disease
were 99% and 94%, respectively, at eight years (55). Despite
high survival rates, in this and prior analyses, late relapses
were observed more frequently than in classical HL and,
as such, adverse effects of multiple treatments have been
of concern. Excision alone may be sufficient in some limited stage cases, but most are treated with IFRT. Advanced
stage presentations are uncommon and significantly less
favorable; these are usually managed as for classical disease. In a retrospective analysis, NLPHL patients participating in GHSG clinical trials had FFTF rates comparable
to classical HL at five years; however, late relapses are
more common in NLPHL than classical HL (53). Reliable
expression of CD20 in NLPHL led groups at Stanford University and in Europe to study the therapeutic efficacy of

Hodgkin Lymphoma

269

rituximab (56,57). High response rates have been observed
with just four rituximab injections, but a continuous pattern
of relapse was observed thereafter. Longer courses of antibody treatment may result in more durable response (58).
The misclassification of many NLPHL cases demonstrates
the importance of expert hematopathology review (59).
NLPHL can be difficult to differentiate from T-cell rich
B-cell lymphoma, and reactive hyperplasia and progressive
transformation of germinal centers can precede or follow
a diagnosis of NLPHL (1). Transformation to diffuse large
B-cell lymphoma has been reported in 3% to 5% of cases
and a clonal association has been demonstrated (60). These
attributes indicate the need for expert hematopathology
review and a policy of re-biopsy for recurrent disease.

TREATMENT COMPLICATIONS AND SURVIVORSHIP
Appreciation of the late as well as early complications of
treatment for HL has been an important force in shaping
current treatment as well as investigational strategies. The
major complications of RT include second cancers and cardiovascular disease. Reporting of these late effects is influenced by the latency period, which may require a minimum
of 10 to 15 years of follow-up. The volume and dose of
radiotherapy determine the risk of late effects, together
with important cofactors (61). Second cancers principally
involve the breast, lung, thyroid, soft tissue, bone, skin,
and gastrointestinal tract. Age at treatment interacts with
cofactors for selected sites such as tobacco use and alkylating agents for lung cancer and duration of menses for
breast cancer (62–64). Thoracic RT confers an increased risk
of cardiac disease, especially in doses more than 30 Gy, and
recent data indicate that doxorubicin exposure is an important cofactor (65–68). Patients with HL have an increased
risk of death from treatment complications that persists for
more than 25 years, and younger patients are at risk for
breast and colorectal cancer occurring at earlier ages (69).
Appropriate monitoring and surveillance are important,
particularly in patients treated with RT prior to 1990 (70).
The side effects of chemotherapy are related to specific
drugs, their individual and cumulative doses, and potential
drug interactions. Sterility and an increased risk of leukemia are associated with alkylating agents but are not generally observed with ABVD. In some series, an increased
risk of solid cancers has been associated with alkylating
agents as well as radiation therapy (71). Another form of
secondary leukemia, which is notable for a shorter latency
and a unique balanced translocation, has been reported
with etoposide and has been associated with escalated
BEACOPP (72). The relationship of this complication with
individual and cumulative doses, schedule, and drug interactions is uncertain. Recent data from the GHSG show that
BEACOPP results in male sterility and is associated with
premature menopause (73,74). Although ABVD has little or
no increased risk of secondary leukemia and has significantly less reproductive toxicity compared with the MOPP
combination, recent data from a population-based study
demonstrate a marked increase in relative risk of late cardiopulmonary toxicity, particularly in combination with
mediastinal irradiation (67). Recent data also implicate
doxorubicin in increasing late cardiotoxicity in combination
with RT (75). It is hoped that interim PET scanning and
the validation of biomarkers for efficacy and toxicity will

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

MANAGEMENT OF RECURRENT DISEASE
The success of second-line treatment is related to sensitivity
to chemotherapy at relapse (determined by standard radiologic and PET criteria), initial remission duration, extent of
disease and symptoms at relapse, presence of anemia at
relapse, and number of prior treatments. Historically, recurrence after a full course of chemotherapy for advanced HL
resulted in a <20% cure rate with second-line chemotherapy. Myeloablative chemotherapy and autologous transplantation is the preferred therapy, based on failure-free
survival rates of 40% to 50% and two randomized trials
that demonstrated the superiority of transplantation over
second-line chemotherapy (77–80). The intensity of prior
therapy may be prognostic; >65% of patients were estimated to be alive and disease-free at five years after Stanford V and radiotherapy, and the success of second-line
therapy was greater after ABVD than after BEACOPP induction in a recent Italian study (36,41). Functional imaging
with FDG-PET has also emerged as a highly significant
prognostic factor for the success of myeloablative chemotherapy for recurrent HL (81). Historically, radiotherapy
alone was effective second-line therapy only in selected cases,
with most patients requiring a systemic approach (82,83).
Standard allogeneic transplantation for recurrent HL
is associated with a lower risk of relapse than autologous
transplantation, but this advantage is offset by higher
transplant-related mortality. Reduced or nonmyeloablative
conditioning prior to allogeneic transplantation results in
lower transplant-related mortality, but at the expense of a
higher relapse rate compared to myeloablative conditioning (84,85). Patients with longer remissions, chemosensitive
disease, and more intense conditioning regimens have better
reported outcomes. Evidence of activity of donor lymphocyte infusions in some patients and a favorable association
of graft-versus-host disease with time to progression favor
a graft-versus-host effect in HL. However, this procedure
should continue to be evaluated in the context of prospective
clinical trials (84).
The evolution from radiotherapy alone to combined
modality therapy for limited disease has resulted in a lower
rate of relapse but uncertainty as to the optimal management of relapse in this setting. An evaluation of patients
relapsing after ABVD alone or RT-containing therapy in
the NCIC-ECOG trial estimated that >90% patients were
free of second progression or death at five years, whether
managed at relapse with RT alone, combined modality,
chemotherapy alone or high-dose therapy and autotransplantation (86). Less favorable results were reported by the
GHSG, which found a 52% disease-free rate at 36 months

among patients who relapsed after brief chemotherapy and
radiotherapy; the majority had systemic therapy and half
were transplanted (87).

CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE CONSIDERATIONS
As illustrated in Figure 14.2, outcomes have improved in
HL over the past three decades. The continued challenge
in HL is to define the most effective treatment with the
fewest complications in risk-adapted strategies. The fact
that HL can often be cured with second-line treatment
results in a choice between more intensive primary therapy
or a less intensive treatment with fewer complications but
a higher rate of relapse. Counseling patients, who are
increasingly involved in treatment selection, requires consideration of personal risk factors and preferences, prognostic factors, and response assessment during treatment.
Although cure is a critical aim for all patients, overall
survival, and quality of life are the ultimate endpoints.
Although overall cure rates and survivals have continuously improved, late effects of treatment continue to
be of concern, and these unfavorably affect expected survival

Disease-specific survival
100

100

1989–2008
1969–1988

80

80
Probability (%)

afford limitation of cumulative drug exposures, more toxic
chemotherapy regimens, and use and volume of RT to a
subset of patients based on risk and benefit.
Other complications of treatment for HL include
hypothyroidism secondary to neck RT, overwhelming
sepsis after splenectomy or splenic RT, osteoporosis and
osteonecrosis, and pulmonary toxicity. The latter has been
related to cumulative bleomycin exposure and is more pronounced in older patients and in those exposed to granulocyte colony stimulating factors (76).

1960–1968
60

60

40

40

20

20
p < 0.001
0

0
0

5

10

15

20
25
Years

30

35

40

45

Overall survival
100

100
1989–2008

80
Probability (%)

270

80

60

1969–1988

60
40

40
1960–1968

20

20

p < 0.001

0
0

5

10

0
15

20
25
Years

30

35

40

45

Figure 14.2 Disease-specific and overall survival according to era
of treatment at Stanford University, significant gains in both Diseasespecific survival (DSS) and overall survival (OS) were made with
each era.

Chapter 14:

at 10 or more years. A major challenge is to monitor treated
patients for decades, and engage them in ongoing care and
research for optimal survivorship. The undesirable consequences of treatment in young HL patients have and continue to be a driving force in the development of
prognostic biomarkers for efficacy and toxicity and novel
targeted treatments. More effective therapies are required
for older patients and those with recurrent and refractory
disease. Understanding and prospectively defining the
unique biologic attributes of these patients with suitable
biomarkers is an ongoing challenge. Preliminary efficacy
data have been reported with a variety of new agents
including the histone deacetylase inhibitors, inhibitors of
the mTOR pathway, and an anti-CD30 conjugated tubulin
toxin. Studies of agents targeting angiogenesis, immune
modulation, and other cell surface receptors or ligands are
in progress. The constellation of progress in functional
imaging, biomarkers, understanding of the basic biology
of HL, and evolution of new targeted approaches hold
great promise to take the prevention, diagnosis, and management of HL to the next level.

REFERENCES
1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.
9.

10.
11.

12.

Stein H. Hodgkin Lymphoma. In: Swerdlow S, Campo E,
Harris NL et al., eds. WHO Classification of Tumours of
Haematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissues, 4th edn. Lyon,
France: International Agency for Research on Cancer, 2008.
Weiss LM, Strickler JG, Warnke RA et al. Epstein-Barr viral
DNA in tissues of Hodgkin’s disease. Am J Pathol 1987;
129: 86–91.
Hjalgrim H, Askling J, Rostgaard K et al. Characteristics of
Hodgkin’s lymphoma after infectious mononucleosis. N Engl
J Med 2003; 349: 1324–32.
Alexander FE, Lawrence DJ, Freeland J et al. An epidemiologic
study of index and family infectious mononucleosis and adult
Hodgkin’s disease (HD): evidence for a specific association with
EBV+ve HD in young adults. Int J Cancer 2003; 107: 298–302.
Mack TM, Cozen W, Shibata DK et al. Concordance for
Hodgkin’s disease in identical twins suggesting genetic
susceptibility to the young-adult form of the disease. N Engl
J Med 1995; 332: 413–18.
Niens M, Jarrett RF, Hepkema B et al. HLA-A*02 is associated
with a reduced risk and HLA-A*01 with an increased risk
of developing EBV+ Hodgkin lymphoma. Blood 2007; 110:
3310–15.
Brauninger A, Schmitz R, Bechtel D et al. Molecular biology
of Hodgkin’s and Reed/Sternberg cells in Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Int J Cancer 2006; 118: 1853–61.
Re D, Kuppers R, Diehl V. Molecular pathogenesis of Hodgkin’s
lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 6379–86.
Anagnostopoulos I, Hansmann ML, Franssila K et al. European
Task Force on Lymphoma project on lymphocyte predominance Hodgkin disease: histologic and immunohistologic
analysis of submitted cases reveals 2 types of Hodgkin disease with a nodular growth pattern and abundant lymphocytes. Blood 2000; 96: 1889–99.
Carbone P, Kaplan H, Musshoff K. Report of the committee
on the Hodgkin’s disease staging. Cancer Res 1971; 31: 1860.
Lister TA, Crowther D, Sutcliffe SB et al. Report of a committee convened to discuss the evaluation and staging of
patients with Hodgkin’s disease: Cotswolds meeting [published erratum appears in J Clin Oncol 1990; 8: 1602.] [see
comments]. J Clin Oncol 1989; 7: 1630–6.
Friedberg JW, Chengazi V. PET scans in the staging of
lymphoma: current status. Oncologist 2003; 8: 438–47.

Hodgkin Lymphoma

271

13. Juweid ME. Utility of positron emission tomography (PET)
scanning in managing patients with Hodgkin lymphoma.
Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program 2006: 259–65,
510-1.
14. Hoppe RT, Coleman CN, Cox RS et al. The management of
stage I—II Hodgkin’s disease with irradiation alone or combined modality therapy: the Stanford experience. Blood 1982;
59: 455–65.
15. Löffler M, Mauch P, MacLennan K et al. The Second International Symposium on Hodgkin’s Disease. Workshop I: Review
on prognostic factors. Ann Oncol 1992; (3 Suppl 4): 63–6.
16. Tubiana M, Henry AM, Carde P et al. Toward comprehensive
management tailored to prognostic factors of patients with
clinical stages I and II in Hodgkin’s disease. The EORTC
Lymphoma Group controlled clinical trials: 1964–1987. Blood
1989; 73: 47–56.
17. Hasenclever D, Diehl V. A prognostic score for advanced
Hodgkin’s disease. International Prognostic Factors Project
on Advanced Hodgkin’s Disease. N Engl J Med 1998; 339:
1506–14.
18. Hutchings M, Loft A, Hansen M et al. FDG-PET after
two cycles of chemotherapy predicts treatment failure and
progression-free survival in Hodgkin lymphoma. Blood 2006;
107: 52–9.
19. Mikhaeel NG, Hutchings M, Fields PA et al. FDG-PET after
two to three cycles of chemotherapy predicts progression-free
and overall survival in high-grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
Ann Oncol 2005; 16: 1514–23.
20. Gallamini A, Hutchings M, Avigdor A et al. Early interim
PET scan in Hodgkin lymphoma: where do we stand? Leuk
Lymphoma 2008; 49: 659–62.
21. Gallamini A, Hutchings M, Rigacci L et al. Early interim
2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography is prognostically superior to international prognostic
score in advanced-stage Hodgkin’s lymphoma: a report from
a joint Italian-Danish study. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 3746–52.
22. Hsi ED. Biologic features of Hodgkin lymphoma and the
development of biologic prognostic factors in Hodgkin lymphoma: tumor and microenvironment. Leuk Lymphoma 2008;
49: 1668–80.
23. Ribrag V, Koscielny S, Casasnovas O et al. Pharmacogenetic
study in Hodgkin’s lymphomas reveals the impact of UGT1A1
polymorphisms on patient’s prognosis. Blood 2009; 113:
3307–13.
24. Press OW, LeBlanc M, Lichter AS et al. Phase III randomized
intergroup trial of subtotal lymphoid irradiation versus
doxorubicin, vinblastine, and subtotal lymphoid irradiation
for stage IA to IIA Hodgkin’s disease. J Clin Oncol 2001;
19: 4238–44.
25. Engert A, Franklin J, Eich HT et al. Two cycles of doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine plus extendedfield radiotherapy is superior to radiotherapy alone in early
favorable Hodgkin’s lymphoma: final results of the GHSG
HD7 trial. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 3495–502.
26. Ferme C, Eghbali H, Meerwaldt JH et al. Chemotherapy plus
involved-field radiation in early-stage Hodgkin’s disease.
N Engl J Med 2007; 357: 1916–27.
27. Bonadonna G, Bonfante V, Viviani S et al. ABVD plus subtotal nodal versus involved-field radiotherapy in early-stage
Hodgkin’s disease: long-term results. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22:
2835–41.
28. Engert A, Schiller P, Josting A et al. Involved-field radiotherapy is equally effective and less toxic compared with
extended-field radiotherapy after four cycles of chemotherapy in patients with early-stage unfavorable Hodgkin’s lymphoma: results of the HD8 trial of the German Hodgkin’s
Lymphoma Study Group. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 3601–8.
29. Horning SJ, Hoppe RT, Breslin S et al. Very brief (8 week)
chemotherapy (CT) and low dose (30 Gy) radiotherapy (RT)

272

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
for limited stage Hodgkin’s disease (HD): preliminary results
of the Stanford-Kaiser G4 study of Stanford V + RT. Blood
1999; 94(Suppl 1): 387a.
Radford JA, Williams MV, Hancock BW et al. Minimal initial
chemotherapy plus involved field radiotherapy (RT) versus
mantle field RT for clinical stage IA/IIA supra-diaphragmatic
hodgkins disease (HD). Preliminary results of the UK
Lymphoma Group LY07 trial. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2003:
2304A.
Diehl V, Brillant C, Engert A et al. Reduction of combined
modality treatment intensity in early stage Hodgkin’s lymphoma: interim analysis of the HD 10 trial of the GHSG. ASH
Annual Meeting Abstracts 2004; 104: 1307.
Meyer RM, Gospodarowicz MK, Connors JM et al. Randomized comparison of ABVD chemotherapy with a strategy that
includes radiation therapy in patients with limited-stage
Hodgkin’s lymphoma: National Cancer Institute of Canada
Clinical Trials Group and the Eastern Cooperative Oncology
Group. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 4634–42.
Noordijk E, Thomas J, Ferme C et al. First results of the
EORTC-GELA H9 randomized trials: the H9-F trial and H9U
trial in patients with favorable or unfavorable early stage
Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2005: 6505A.
Santoro A, Bonadonna G, Valagussa P et al. Long-term
results of combined chemotherapy-radiotherapy approach in
Hodgkin’s disease: superiority of ABVD plus radiotherapy
versus MOPP plus radiotherapy. J Clin Oncol 1987; 5: 27–37.
Bonadonna G, Bonfante V, Viviani S, et al. ABVD plus
subtotal nodal involved-field radiotherapy in early-stage
Hodgkin’s disease: long-term results. J Clin Oncol 2004; 22:
2835–41.
Horning SJ, Hoppe RT, Breslin S et al. Stanford V and radiotherapy for locally extensive and advanced Hodgkin’s disease:
mature results of a prospective clinical trial. J Clin Oncol
2002; 20: 630–7.
Klimm B, Engert A, Brillant C et al. Comparison of BEACOPP
and ABVD chemotherapy in intermediate stage Hodgkin’s
lymphoma: results of the fourth interim analysis of the HD11
trial of the GHSG. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2005: 6507A.
Johnson PW, Radford JA, Cullen MH et al. Comparison
of ABVD and alternating or hybrid multidrug regimens
for the treatment of advanced Hodgkin’s lymphoma: results
of the United Kingdom Lymphoma Group LY09 Trial
(ISRCTN97144519). J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 9208–18.
Diehl V, Franklin J, Pfreundschuh M et al. Standard
and increased-dose BEACOPP chemotherapy compared with
COPP-ABVD for advanced Hodgkin’s disease. N Engl J Med
2003; 348: 2386–95.
Diehl V, Franklin J, Pfistner B et al. Ten year results of a
German Hodgkin Study Group randomized trial of standard
and increased dose of BEACOPP chemotherapy for advanced
Hodgkin’ lymphoma (HD9). Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2007:
LBA8015.
Gianni AM, Rambaldi A, Zinzani PL et al. Comparable 3-year
outcome following ABVD or BEACOPP first-line chemotherapy, plus pre-planned high-dose salvage, in advanced
Hodgkin lymphoma: a randomized trial of the Michelangelo,
GITIL and IIL cooperative groups. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol
2008: abstract 8506.
Ballova V, Ruffer JU, Haverkamp H et al. A prospectively
randomized trial carried out by the German Hodgkin Study
Group (GHSG) for elderly patients with advanced Hodgkin’s
disease comparing BEACOPP baseline and COPP-ABVD
(study HD9elderly). Ann Oncol 2005; 16: 124–31.
Loeffler M, Brosteanu O, Hasenclever D et al. Metaanalysis of chemotherapy versus combined modality treatment trials in Hodgkin’s disease. International Database on
Hodgkin’s Disease Overview Study Group. J Clin Oncol 1998;
16: 818–29.

44.

45.

46.

47.

48.
49.

50.

51.

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

59.

Ferme C, Sebban C, Hennequin C et al. Comparison of chemotherapy to radiotherapy as consolidation of complete or
good partial response after six cycles of chemotherapy for
patients with advanced Hodgkin’s disease: results of the
groupe d’etudes des lymphomes de l’Adulte H89 trial. Blood
2000; 95: 2246–52.
Aleman BM, Raemaekers JM, Tirelli U et al. Involved-field
radiotherapy for advanced Hodgkin’s lymphoma. N Engl J
Med 2003; 348: 2396–406.
Diehl V, Schiller P, Engert A et al. Results of the third interim
analysis of the HD12 trial of the GHSG: 8 courses of escalated
BEACOPP versus 4 baseline courses of BEACOPP with or
without additive radiotherapy for advanced stage Hodgkin’s
lymphoma [abstract]. Blood 2003; 102: 85.
Kobe C, Dietlein M, Franklin J et al. Positron emission tomography has a high negative predictive value for progression
or early relapse for patients with residual disease after first
line chemotherapy in advanced-stage Hodgkin lymphoma.
Blood 2008; 112: 3989–94.
Hoppe RT, Advani RH, Ambinder RF et al. Hodgkin disease/
lymphoma. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2008; 6: 594–622.
Horning SJ, Williams J, Bartlett NL et al. Assessment of the
Stanford V regimen and consolidative radiotherapy for bulky
and advanced Hodgkin’s disease: Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group pilot study E1492. J Clin Oncol 2000; 18: 972–80.
Horning SJ, Hoppe R, Advani R et al. Efficacy and late effects
of Stanford V chemotherapy and radiotherapy in untreated
Hodgkin’s disease: mature data in early and advanced stage
patients [abstract]. Blood 2005; 104: 92a.
Gobbi PG, Levis A, Chisesi T et al. ABVD versus modified
Stanford V versus MOPPEBVCAD with optional and limited
radiotherapy in intermediate- and advanced-stage Hodgkin’s
lymphoma: final results of a multicenter randomized trial
by the Intergruppo Italiano Linfomi. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23:
9198–207.
Diehl V, Brillant C, Franklin J et al. BEACOPP chemotherapy
for advanced Hodgkin’s disease: results of further analyses
of the HD9- and HD12- trials of the German Hodgkin Study
Group (GHSG). ASH Annual Meeting Abstracts 2004; 104: 307.
Nogova L, Reineke T, Brillant C et al. Lymphocyte-predominant
and classical Hodgkin’s lymphoma: a comprehensive analysis
from the German Hodgkin Study Group. J Clin Oncol 2008;
26: 434–9.
Nogova L, Reineke T, Eich HT et al. Extended field radiotherapy, combined modality treatment or involved field radiotherapy for patients with stage IA lymphocyte-predominant
Hodgkin’s lymphoma: a retrospective analysis from the
German Hodgkin Study Group (GHSG). Ann Oncol 2005;
16: 1683–7.
Diehl V, Sextro M, Franklin J et al. Clinical presentation,
course, and prognostic factors in lymphocyte-predominant
Hodgkin’s disease and lymphocyte-rich classical Hodgkin’s
disease: report from the European Task Force on Lymphoma
Project on lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin’s disease.
J Clin Oncol 1999; 17: 776–83.
Ekstrand BC, Lucas JB, Horwitz SM et al. Rituximab in
lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin disease: results of a phase
2 trial. Blood 2003; 101: 4285–9.
Schulz H, Rehwald U, Morschhauser F et al. Rituximab
in relapsed lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin Lymphoma:
long-term results of a phase-II trial of the German Hodgkin
Lymphoma Study Group (GHSG). Blood 2008; 111:
109–11.
Horning SJ, Bartlett NL, Breslin S et al. Results of a prospective phase II trial of limited and extended rituximab treatment in nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin’s disease
(NLPHD). ASH Annual Meeting Abstracts 2007; 110: 644.
Rehwald U, Schulz H, Reiser M et al. Treatment of relapsed
CD20+ Hodgkin lymphoma with the monoclonal antibody

Chapter 14:

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

65.

66.

67.

68.

69.

70.

71.

72.

73.

74.

rituximab is effective and well tolerated: results of a phase 2
trial of the German Hodgkin Lymphoma Study Group. Blood
2003; 101: 420–4.
Greiner TC, Gascoyne RD, Anderson ME et al. Nodular
lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin’s disease associated with
large-cell lymphoma: analysis of Ig gene rearrangements by
V-J polymerase chain reaction. Blood 1996; 88: 657–66.
Hodgson DC, Koh ES, Tran TH et al. Individualized estimates
of second cancer risks after contemporary radiation therapy
for Hodgkin lymphoma. Cancer 2007; 110: 2576–86.
van Leeuwen FE, Klokman WJ, Stovall M et al. Roles of
radiation dose, chemotherapy, and hormonal factors in breast
cancer following Hodgkin’s disease. J Natl Cancer Inst 2003;
95: 971–80.
Hill DA, Gilbert E, Dores GM et al. Breast cancer risk following radiotherapy for Hodgkin lymphoma: modification by
other risk factors. Blood 2005; 106: 3358–65.
Travis LB. Evaluation of the risk of therapy-associated complications in survivors of Hodgkin lymphoma. Hematology
Am Soc Hematol Educ Program 2007; 2007: 192–6.
Hancock SL, Tucker MA, Hoppe RT. Factors affecting late
mortality from heart disease after treatment of Hodgkin’s
disease. JAMA 1993; 270: 1949–55.
Myrehaug S, Pintilie M, Tsang R et al. Cardiac morbidity
following modern treatment for Hodgkin lymphoma: supraadditive cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin and radiation therapy.
Leuk Lymphoma 2008; 49: 1486–93.
Swerdlow AJ, Higgins CD, Smith P et al. Myocardial infarction mortality risk after treatment for Hodgkin disease:
a collaborative British cohort study. J Natl Cancer Inst 2007;
99: 206–14.
Travis LB, Gilbert E. Lung cancer after Hodgkin lymphoma:
the roles of chemotherapy, radiotherapy and tobacco use.
Radiat Res 2005; 163: 695–6.
Hodgson DC, Gilbert ES, Dores GM et al. Long-term solid
cancer risk among 5-year survivors of Hodgkin’s lymphoma.
J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 1489–97.
Hodgson DC. Hodgkin lymphoma: the follow-up of longterm survivors. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am 2008; 22:
233–44, vi.
Swerdlow AJ, Douglas AJ, Hudson GV et al. Risk of second
primary cancers after Hodgkin’s disease by type of treatment:
analysis of 2846 patients in the British National Lymphoma
Investigation. BMJ 1992; 304: 1137–43.
DeVore R, Whitlock J, Hainsworth JD et al. Therapy-related
acute nonlymphocytic leukemia with monocytic features and
rearrangement of chromosome 11q. Ann Intern Med 1989;
110: 740–2.
Sieniawski M, Reineke T, Nogova L et al. Fertility in male
patients with advanced Hodgkin Lymphoma treated with
BEACOPP: a report of the German Hodgkin Study Group
(GHSG). Blood 2008; 111: 71–6.
Behringer K, Breuer K, Reineke T et al. Secondary amenorrhea after Hodgkin’s lymphoma is influenced by age at treatment, stage of disease, chemotherapy regimen, and the use of
oral contraceptives during therapy: a report from the German

75.

76.

77.

78.

79.

80.

81.

82.

83.

84.
85.

86.

87.

Hodgkin Lymphoma

273

Hodgkin’s Lymphoma Study Group. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23:
7555–64.
Aleman BM, van den Belt-Dusebout AW, De Bruin ML et al.
Late cardiotoxicity after treatment for Hodgkin lymphoma.
Blood 2007; 109: 1878–86.
Martin WG, Ristow KM, Habermann TM et al. Bleomycin
pulmonary toxicity has a negative impact on the outcome of
patients with Hodgkin’s lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23:
7614–20.
Horning SJ, Chao NJ, Negrin RS et al. High-dose therapy
and autologous hematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation
for recurrent or refractory Hodgkin’s disease: analysis of the
Stanford University results and prognostic indices. Blood
1997; 89: 801–13.
Reece DE, Connors JM, Spinelli JJ et al. Intensive therapy
with cyclophosphamide, carmustine, etoposide +/– cisplatin,
and autologous bone marrow transplantation for Hodgkin’s
disease in first relapse after combination chemotherapy [see
comments]. Blood 1994; 83: 1193–9.
Linch DC, Winfield D, Goldstone AH et al. Dose intensification with autologous bone-marrow transplantation in relapsed
and resistant Hodgkin’s disease: results of a BNLI randomised
trial. Lancet 1993; 341: 1051–4.
Schmitz N, Pfistner B, Sextro M et al. Aggressive conventional chemotherapy compared with high-dose chemotherapy
with autologous haemopoietic stem-cell transplantation for
relapsed chemosensitive Hodgkin’s disease: a randomised
trial. Lancet 2002; 359: 2065–71.
Elias Jabbour CH, Gregory Ayers, Rodolfo Nunez et al. Pretransplant positive positron emission tomography/gallium
scans predict poor outcome in patients with recurrent/refractory
Hodgkin lymphoma. Cancer 2007; 109: 2481–9.
Wirth A, Corry J, Laidlaw C et al. Salvage radiotherapy for
Hodgkin’s disease following chemotherapy failure [see comments]. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1997; 39: 599–607.
Josting A, Nogova L, Franklin J et al. Salvage radiotherapy
in patients with relapsed and refractory Hodgkin’s lymphoma:
a retrospective analysis from the German Hodgkin Lymphoma
Study Group. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 1522–9.
Peggs KS, Anderlini P, Sureda A. Allogeneic transplantation
for Hodgkin lymphoma. Br J Haematol 2008; 143:468–80.
Sureda A, Robinson S, Canals C et al. Reduced-intensity conditioning compared with conventional allogeneic stem-cell
transplantation in relapsed or refractory Hodgkin’s lymphoma: an analysis from the Lymphoma Working Party of
the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation.
J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 455–62.
Macdonald DA, Ding K, Gospodarowicz MK et al. Patterns
of disease progression and outcomes in a randomized trial
testing ABVD alone for patients with limited-stage Hodgkin
lymphoma. Ann Oncol 2007; 18: 1680–4.
Sieniawski M, Franklin J, Nogova L et al. Outcome of patients
experiencing progression or relapse after primary treatment with
two cycles of chemotherapy and radiotherapy for early-stage
favorable Hodgkin’s lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 2000–5.

15
1
Multiple Myeloma
Antonio Palumbo and Francesca Gay

Many focal genetic lesions related to MM initiation
and progression, involving tumor suppressor genes and
oncogenes, have been identified from gene expression profiling studies (5,6).

EPIDEMIOLOGY AND ETIOLOGY
Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable malignant plasma
cell disorder that constitutes 1% of all cancer and 10% of
hematological neoplasms. Its worldwide incidence rates
vary from 0.4 to 5 per 100,000, with a higher rate in males,
in Western countries, and among African Americans. The
incidence of MM increases considerably with age, with a
median age at diagnosis of 66 years (age-adjusted incidence
rates 2.1 vs. 30.1 in patients aged under and over 65 years,
respectively) (1,2). The number of geriatric patients is
expected to rise over time because of the increased life
expectancy of the normal population.
Etiology is unknown, with no established lifestyle,
occupational, or environmental risk factors. A genetic predisposition as well as exposure to radiation, chemicals,
tobacco use, obesity, diet, and alcohol have been hypothesized as possible cause, but not yet demonstrated (2).

Bone Marrow Microenvironment
The bone marrow microenvironment plays an essential role
in MM pathogenesis. Recent studies have reinforced the
relevance of extracellular matrix proteins (fibronectin, collagen, laminin, and osteopontin) and hematopoietic cells,
stromal cells, endothelial cells, osteoclast, and osteoblast.
Adhesion to bone marrow stromal cells, mediated
by various adhesion molecules (vascular cell adhesion
molecule-4, intercellular adhesion molecule-1) directly stimulates, in both a paracrine and an autocrine manner, the
production of cytokine and growth factors (interleukin-6,
vascular endothelial growth factor, insulin growth factor-1)
and activates an intracellular signaling cascade (involving
extracellular signal-regulated kinase, janus kinase-2, activation of transcription-3-phosphatidilinositol-3-kinase and
nuclear factor-κB). All these events promote tumor cell
growth, survival, migration, and drug resistance. Secretion
of angiogenetic factors, such us vascular endothelial growth
factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, and hepatocyte
growth factor, increased neo-angiogenesis. Receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand produced by bone marrow
stromal cells and macrophage inflammatory protein-1-alfa
secreted by tumor cells stimulates osteoclastogenesis; osteoblastogenesis is inhibited by the secretion of interleukin-3
and Dickkopf-1 by MM cells and the secretion of hepatocyte
growth factor by bone marrow stromal cells. Stimulation
of osteoclastogenesis and inhibition of osteoblastogenesis
promote osteolysis (7).

BIOLOGY AND PATHOGENESIS
Oncogenomics
Myeloma has complex heterogeneous cytogenetic abnormalities, most of which are of known prognostic significance
(see “Prognosis”). Based on the pattern of chromosomal gain
and losses, it can be subdivided into hyperdiploid (55–60%)
and nonhyperdiploid karyotype (40–45%) (3).
Patients may present reciprocal chromosomal translocations, involving immunoglobulin H locus (14q32.3) and,
less frequently, L locus (κ:2p12 or λ:22q11). In these translocations, various genes are juxtaposed to a strong immunoglobulin enhancer that disregulates their mRNA expression.
The t(11;14)(q13;q32), present in 15% to 20% of patients,
induces cyclin D1 over-expression, while t(6;14)(p21;q32)
(5% of cases) increases cyclin D3 expression. The t(4;14)
(p16.3;q32), present in about 15% patients, disregulates the
Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome candidate-1 and the fibroblast
growth factor receptor-3 gene expression. Inhibition of fibroblast growth factor receptor-3 induces differentiation and
apoptosis of plasma cells. The t(14;16)(q32;q23) disregulates
the oncogene MAF, and t(14;20)(q32;q11) affects MAFB
gene. Both translocations occur in 5% of patients. MAF
increases MM cell proliferation and adhesion to bone
marrow stromal cells.
Gain or loss of chromosomal regions occurs in all
MM cases, which includes chromosome 13 deletion, loss of
the short arm of chromosome 17 or of the short arm of
chromosome 1, and gain or amplification of the long arm
of chromosome 1 (4).

DIAGNOSIS
The diagnostic criteria have recently been updated for MM
and the most common related-diseases (monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significant (MGUS), smouldering MM (SMM) and plasmacytoma); Table 15.1 summarizes
the diagnostic criteria of the other less-common disorders.

Diagnostic Work-up
Serum protein electrophoresis (SPEP) and urine protein
electrophoresis (UPEP), on a 24-hours urine specimen, should
be performed to screen the presence of monoclonal proteins.
Immunofixation is necessary to determine the class of the
274

Chapter 15:

Table 15.1

Multiple Myeloma

275

Plasma Cell–Related Disorders (8)

Disorder

Disease definition

Plasma cell leukemia

Peripheral blood plasma cell count ≥2.0 ×109/L; ≥20% plasma cells in the peripheral blood differential white cell
count. Primary: it presents in the leukemic phase; Secondary: it is leukemic transformation of a previously
recognized MM.
Presence in various tissues of amyloid derivated from the variable portion of monoclonal light chain, as a result of a
clonal plasma cell proliferative disorder, plus evidence of an amyloid-related systemic syndrome (renal, liver, heart,
gastrointestinal tract, or peripheral nerve involvement).
IgM monoclonal gammopathy with >10% bone marrow lymphoplasmacytic infiltration by small lymphocytes showing
plasmacytoid or plasma cells differentiation and typical immunophenotype excluding other lymphoproliferative disorders.
Presence of a monoclonal plasma cell disorder, peripheral neuropathy, and at least one of the following seven
features: osteosclerotic myeloma, Castleman disease, organomegaly, endocrinopathy (excluding diabetes mellitus or
hypothyroidism), edema, typical skin changes, and papilledema.

Systemic AL amyloidosis

Waldenstrom
macroglobulinemia
POEMS Syndrome

Abbreviations: MM, multiple myeloma; POEMS, polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal-gammopathy, skin-changes.

monoclonal protein and to detect small amounts of proteins not relievable by electrophoresis. Quantification of the
monoclonal protein by nefelometry completes the evaluation. Measurement of serum-free light-chain assay has been
introduced into clinical practice to quantify κ and λ chains
not bound to intact immunoglobulin. This assay is used to
monitor patients with oligo/nonsecretory MM, light-chain
MM, and primary amyloidosis. Diagnosis can be made by
bone marrow aspirate and biopsy to demonstrate the infiltration of plasma cell in the bone marrow. Routine parameters including full blood count and blood chemistry
(creatinine, calcium) and skeletal survey are used to determine the presence of organ damage. Magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) is more sensitive than skeletal survey to
detect bone lesions: MRI is considered a second-level examination, suitable for patients with bone pain but with a
negative skeletal survey and in case of suspected spinal
cord compression. Computer tomography and MRI are
indicated in case of suspected plasmacytoma. Diagnostic
workup should be completed with prognostic markers:
blood chemistry (β2-microglobulin, LDH, albumin), bone
marrow cytogenetic, and fluorescent in situ hybridization.

Monoclonal Gammopathy of Undetermined
Significance
MGUS is the most common plasma cell discrasia (3% of the
population aged 50 years or older, with prevalence increasing according to age). It is an asymptomatic disorder
characterized by
• monoclonal protein <3 g/dL;
• bone marrow plasma cells <10%;
• absence of end-organ damage attributable to plasma cell
proliferation (8).
MGUS is associated with a lifelong risk of progression to
MM or related disorders (1% per year), which does not
diminish with time. Recognition is usually incidental,
occurring when SPEP, UPEP, and immunofixation are performed in the workup of patients with a wide variety of
medical conditions. The current standard of care is observation alone; patients may benefit from a risk-stratification
[based on the size and type of monoclonal protein and
serum-free light chain (9)] to guide follow-up; low-risk

patients can be rechecked in six months and then once
every two years or only at the time of progression; all other
patients need to be rechecked in six months, and then
yearly thereafter.

Smouldering MM
SMM accounts for approximately 15% of all newly diagnosed MM. It is an asymptomatic condition whose recognition could be incidental. It is characterized by
• monoclonal protein (IgG or IgA) ≥3 g/dL;
• bone marrow plasma cells ≥10%;
• absence of end-organ damage attributable to plasma
cell proliferation.
SMM is associated with a much higher lifelong risk of
progression to MM or related disorders than MGUS (10%
to 20% per year); patients must therefore be followed up
closely (every three to four months), although they should
not be treated until progression to symptomatic disease.
Similar to MGUS, the type and size of monoclonal protein
are an indicator of progression (8,10).

Symptomatic MM
Patients with symptomatic MM should be treated immediately. Symptomatic MM is defined by
• serum and/or urine monoclonal protein (in patients
with no detectable monoclonal component, an abnormal serum-free light-chain ratio);
• bone marrow plasma cells ≥10%;
• evidence of end-organ damage attributable to plasma
cell proliferation (CRAB criteria):
° C: hypercalcemia (>11 mg/dL)
° R: renal failure (creatinine >2 mg/dL)
° A: anemia (hemoglobin <10.5 g/dL)
° B: bone disease (lytic lesions or osteopenia) (11)
Anemia with fatigue is the more frequent feature at presentation, as well as bone pain secondary to bone disease.
Hypercalcemia and renal failure require urgent treatment.
Less frequently, patients present hepatomegaly and amyloidosis. Figure 15.1 shows frequencies of the main clinical

276

100%

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

97%

90%
80%

73%
66%

70%

58%

60%
50%
40%
30%

19%

Minor/no
abnormalities

Hypercalcemia

Renal
insufficiency

Bone pain

Lytic bone
lesions

Anemia

Monoclonal
protein

0%

presentation at diagnosis. Recognition of organ damage
and its correlation with MM is the first step to correctly
suspect the evolution of MGUS or SMM to MM and to
appropriately start therapy.

Plasmacytoma

4%

4%

3%
Non secretory
disease

11%

Amyloidosis

13%

10%

Hepatomegaly

20%

Figure 15.1 Main clinical presentation at
diagnosis.

wide availability of these two inexpensive laboratory tests.
The ISS provides useful prognostic grouping regardless of
age, therapy, and geographic area. Serum β2-microglobulin
reflects tumor mass and renal function; in contrast, albumin levels reflect the effect of interleukine-6 produced by
bone marrow microenvironment on the liver (12).

Solitary plasmacytoma is rare; it is characterized by

MM Biology
• biopsy-proven solitary lesion of bone or soft tissue (most
frequent upper respiratory tract, but it may virtually
involve any organ) with evidence of clonal plasma cells;
• bone marrow not consistent with MM;
• normal skeletal survey and MRI of spine and pelvis;
• absence of end-organ damage attributable to plasma
cell proliferation.
Treatment includes tumoricidal radiation. Patients are at
the risk of progression to MM: the persistence of monoclonal protein after radiation is associated with an increased
risk of progression. Progression generally occurs within
three years (if it occurs), but patients must be followed up
indefinitely (8).

A prognostic correlation was found between cytogenetic
abnormalities and survival. Patients with hyperdiploid MM
tend to have a better prognosis than those with nonhyperdiploid disease (3). The t(14;16) and t(4;14) are associated
with poor prognosis, whereas t(11;14) has a better prognosis. Deletion 13, deletion 17p, and gain or amplification of
1q have also been associated to poor prognosis (4).
A multivariate analysis including chromosomal aberrations [t(4;14) and deletion 17p] and β2-microglobulin
values identified three patient subgroups with diverse outcomes: those lacking t(4;14) and deletion 17p, with a low
β2-microglobulin have an excellent prognosis; patients
presenting either t(4;14) or deletion 17p and high β2microglobulin have a poor prognosis; all other patients have
an intermediate prognosis (13).

PROGNOSTIC FACTORS
Albumin and β2-microglobulin have been identified has
major prognostic factors and incorporated into a staging
system. Cytogenetic analyses have shown prognostic activity, although they need to be validated in a large series of
patients.

International Staging System
The current International Staging System (ISS) (Table 15.2)
is a simple staging system using serum β2-microglobulin
and albumin levels, because of the statistical power and the

Table 15.2

International Staging System (ISS) (12)

Stage

Criteria

I

β2 microglobulin <3.5 mg/L albumin
≥3.5 mg/L
not stage I or IIIa
β2 microglobulin ≥5.5 mg/L

II
III

Median survival
(months)
62
44
29

Two categories: β2 microglobulin <3.5 mg/L but albumin <3.5 mg/L;
β2 microglobulin 3.5–5.5 mg/L irrespective of albumin.

a

Chapter 15:

Table 15.3

Multiple Myeloma

277

Response Criteria (11)

Response subcategory

Response criteria

CR
sCR
VGPR

Negative immunofixation, disappearance of plasmacytomas, ≤5% bone marrow plasma cells
CR, normal free light-chain ratio, absence of clonal bone marrow plasma cells
Monoclonal protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥90% reduction in serum monoclonal
protein plus urine monoclonal protein <100 mg/day
≥50% reduction of serum monoclonal protein and reduction in urinary monoclonal protein by ≥90% or to <200 mg/24hr
or ≥50% decrease in the difference between involved and uninvolved free light-chain levels or ≥50% reduction in
plasma cells, ≥50% reduction in the size of plasmacytomas
Not meeting criteria for CR, VGPR, PR, PD
Increase of ≥25% in serum/urine monoclonal component, difference between involved and uninvolved free light-chain
levels, bone marrow plasma cells percentage, development/increase in the size of new bone lesions or
plasmacytomas, hypercalcemia

PR

SD
PD

Abbreviations: CR, complete response; PD, progressive disease; PR, partial response; sCR, stringent CR; SD, stable disease; VGPR, very good partial response.

Gene expression profile improved molecular databased patient stratification and prognostic staging (5,6).
Other factors related to a poor prognosis include
plasma cell labeling index >3%, plasmablastic morphology,
immunophenotype, high tumor burden, high LDH levels,
and free light-chain ratio (14).

THERAPEUTIC CONSIDERATIONS
Selection of Therapy
Patients with symptomatic MM should be treated immediately. Treatment choice should be based on the patient’s
characteristics (age and presence of comorbidities) and on
scientific evidence.
Patients younger than 65 years without relevant
comorbidities that contraindicate high-dose therapy are
candidates for autologous stem cell transplantation. Randomized trials have demonstrated superior response rate
and survival in patients treated with high-dose therapy
compared with those treated with conventional chemotherapy (15). All other patients should be treated with conventional chemotherapy plus new drugs. Standard treatment
should always be supported by the evidence of improved
progression-free survival (PFS), provided by a randomized
trial. Smaller noncontrolled phase II studies should be considered as an important scientific evidence that need to be
confirmed by randomized trials before deciding the standard of care. Table 15.3 summarizes the current response
criteria. Tables 15.4 and 15.5 summarize the current acceptable regimens and the expected results for young and
elderly patients.

Front-line Therapy in Young Patients
Induction Treatment
Vincristine+doxorubicin+dexamethasone (VAD) and dexamethasone alone were used for years as pretransplantation induction therapy. New drugs have recently been
incorporated into pretransplantation regimens with promising preliminary results.
Thalidomide. A prospective randomized study compared thalidomide plus dexamethasone (TD) with VAD,
showing a higher response rate after induction in patients
treated with TD, although the benefit was not confirmed six

months after autologous transplantation, since very good
partial response (VGPR) rates were almost identical (16).
Two randomized studies have demonstrated that TD is
better than high-dose dexamethasone (HD): they reported
higher response rates and prolonged time to progression
(TTP) in patients receiving TD, not translated into overall
survival (OS) improvement (17,18). The main toxicities
related to thalidomide therapy are deep vein thrombosis
(DVT) (12–26%) and peripheral neuropathy (2–7%). Based
on these trials, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) granted approval for TD for the treatment of newly
diagnosed MM.
In two German-Dutch parallel phase III multicenter
trials, the standard VAD regimen was compared with TD
plus doxorubicin (TAD): higher VGPR rates after induction
and after ASCT were reported, but results on survival
are not yet available. Toxicities of the two regimens are
comparable (19).
Bortezomib. A French randomized trial compared
VAD with the association of bortezomib and HD (VD) as
the induction regimen: preliminary results demonstrated
that VD produced significantly higher pre- and posttransplantation VGPR rates (20). An ongoing Italian multicenter phase III trial compared VD plus thalidomide (VTD)
with TD: data from the planned interim analysis showed
that VGPR were significantly higher with VTD; this superiority was retained after the first transplantation (21). In
both studies, additional follow-up is required to verify if
this difference translate into a significant PFS advantage.
Doxorubicin combined with VD (PAD) are now being
compared with VAD in another randomized trial; the results
are not yet available, but different phase II studies (22,23)
suggest a substantial activity of this regimen. Furthermore,
it was investigated as part of induction regimen followed
by reduced intensity autologous transplantation [Melphalan
100 mg/mq (Mel 100)] in elderly patients showing response
rates similar to VD followed by melphalan 200 mg/mq
(Mel 200) (20,24).
Lenalidomide. Lenalidomide plus HD (RD) was
compared with HD alone in a double-blinded placebocontrolled trial: RD was demonstrated superior to HD in
terms of responses and one-year PFS, while no differences
in OS were reported (25). Another recent phase III study
compared the combination of Lenalidomide plus low-dose

278

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 15.4

Induction
VAD

TD

TAD

VD

VTD

PAD/VDD

RD/Rd

Consolidation
Autologous
transplant

Current Acceptable Induction and Consolidation/Maintenance Regimes and Expected Results for Young Myeloma Patients
Regimen and doses

Response rate

Survival

VCR: 0,4 mg days 1–4
Dox: 9 mg/m2 days 1–4
Dex: 40 mg days 1–4, 9–12, 17–20 for three/four
4-wk cycles
Thal: 200 mg daily
Dex: 40 mg days 1–4, 9–12, 17–20; or 40 mg/day for
4 days every other week for 2 months, then monthly
for 2 months for three/four 3/4-wk cycles
Thal: 200–400 mg days 1–28
Dox: 9 mg/m2 days 1–4
Dex: 40 mg days 1–4, 9–12, 17–20 for three 4-wk
cycles
Bor: 1,3 mg/m2 days 1,4,8,11
Dex: 40 mg days 1–4, 9–12 cycles 1–2; days 1–4
cycles 3–4 for four 4-wk cycles
Bor: 1,3 mg/m2 days 1,4,8,11
Thal: 200 mg days 1–63
Dex: 40 mg days 1–2, 4–5, 8–9, 11–12 for three
3-wk cycles
Bor: 1,3 mg/m2 days 1,4,8,11
Dox: 9 mg/m2 days 1–4 or PLD: 30 mg/m2 day 4
Plus Dex: 40 mg days 1–4 (plus 8–11, 15–18 cycle
1 only) for four 3-wk cycles Or plus
Dex: 20 mg days 1–2, 4–5, 8–9, 11–12, or 40 mg
days 1–4 for six 3-wk cycles
Len: 25 mg days 1–28
Dex: 40 mg days 1–4, 9–12, 17–20 in a 5-wk cycles
Len: 25 mg days 1–21
Dex: 40 mg days 1, 8, 15, 22 in a 4-wk cycles

CR: 2%
≥VGPR: 15–24%
≥PR: 54–71%

PFS: 90% at 12 months
OS: 95% at 12 months

19,20

CR: 4–5%
≥VGPR: 25%
≥PR: 49–79%

PFS/TTP: 50% at
17–22 months
OS: 72% at 24 months

16,17,18,21

CR: 4%
≥VGPR: 33%
≥PR: 72%

NA

19

≥VGPR: 50%
≥PR: 89%

PFS: 93% at 12 months
OS: 97% at 12 months

20

≥VGPR: 60%
≥PR: 93%

NA

21

CR: 12–24%
≥VGPR: 50–62%
≥PR: 89–97%

PFS: 50% at 29 months
91% at 12 months
OS: 95% at 24 months

22,23,24

CR: 22%

PFS: 77% at 12 months
OS: 87–96% at
12 months

25,26

CR: 26–35%
≥VGPR: 55%
≥PR: 89–94%
≥PR: 77%

27,28,30

CR: 55%
≥PR: 86%

EFS: 50% at
21–35 months
OS: 66% at 45 months
EFS: 50% at 28 months
OS: 77% at 36 months
EFS: 50% at 43 months
OS: 78% at 48 months

≥VGPR: 62%
≥PR: 82%

EFS: 50% at 32 months
OS: 50% at 35 months

31

≥VGPR: 67%
≥PR: 97%
≥PR: 83–89%

EFS: 52% at 36 months
OS: 87% at 48 months
PFS: 35% at 36 months
OS: 86% at 36 months

33

Mel: 200 mg/m2 + autologous stem cells
Mel: 100 mg/m2 + autologous stem cells

Reduced-intensity Nonmyeloablative total body irradiation + stem cells
allogenic
from HLA-identical sibling
transplant
Nonmyeloablative chemotherapy + stem cells from
HLA-identical sibling
Maintenance
T-pamidronate
TP

Thal: 50–400 mg daily
Pamidronate: 90 mg at 4-wk intervals
Thal: 200 mg daily (maximum 12 months) Prednisolone:
50 mg on alternate days

References

32
30

34

Abbreviations: Bor, bortezomib; CR, complete response; Dox, doxorubicin; Dex, dexamethasone; EFS, event-free survival; Len, lenalidomide; Mel, melphalan; NA, not
available; OS, overall survival; P, prednisolone; PAD, bortezomib-doxorubicin-dexamethasone; PFS, progression-free survival; PLD, pegilated lyposomal doxorubicin;
PR, partial response; Rd, lenalidomide-low dose dexamethasone; RD, lenalidomide-high-dose dexamethasone; T, thalidomide; TAD, thalidomide-doxorubicindexamethasone; TD, thalidomide-dexamethasone; Thal, thalidomide; TP, thalidomide-prednisolone; TTP, time to progression; VAD, vincristine-doxorubicin-dexamethasone;
VCR, vincristine; VD, bortezomib-dexamethasone; VDD, velcade-pegilated lyposomal doxorubicin-dexamethasone; VGPR, very good partial response; VTD, bortezomibthalidomide-deamethasone; wk, week.

dexamethasone (Rd) with the RD: major grade 3 or higher
toxic effects, including thrombosis (25% vs. 9%) and infections (16% vs. 6%), were significantly higher in the RD
group, and one-year OS was significantly better with Rd.
Increased mortality in the RD group was due to disease
progression and side effects. Since the differences were
confirmed in both younger and elderly patients, this study

has major implications for the use of HD in newly diagnosed MM patients (26).

Consolidation and Maintenance
Results of a randomized trial comparing high-dose regimens
suggest that Mel 200 should be the standard conditioning

Chapter 15:

279

Multiple Myeloma

Table 15.5

Current Acceptable Regimes and Expected Results for Elderly Patients or Young Patients Ineligible for High-Dose Therapy

Treatment

Regimen and doses

Response rate

Survival

References

MP

Mel: 0.25 mg/kg days 1–4; Pdn: 2 mg/kg days 1–4
for twelve 6-wk cycles
Or Mel: 4 mg/m2 days 1–7; Pdn: 40 mg/m2 days 1–7
for six 4-wk cycles
Or Mel: 9 mg/m2 days 1–4; Pdn: 60 mg/m2 days 1–4
for nine 6-wk cycles
Mel: 0.25 mg/kg days 1–4; Pdn: 2 mg/kg days 1–4;
Thal: 100–400 mg/day for twelve 6-wk cycles
+/– thal maintenance
Or Mel: 4 mg/m2 days 1–7; Pdn: 40 mg/m2 days 1–7
for six 4-wk cycles; Thal: 100 mg daily until relapse
or progressive disease
Mel: 9 mg/m2 days 1–4
Pdn: 60 mg/m2 days 1–4
Bor: 1.3 mg/m2 days 1,4,8,11,22,25,29,32 for the
first four 6-wk cycles; days 1,8,15, 22 for the
subsequent five 6-wk cycles
Mel: 0.18–0.25 mg/Kg days 1–4
Pdn: 2 mg/Kg days 1–4 for nine 4-wk cycles
Len: 5–10 mg days 1–21 until relapse or progressive
disease

CR: 1–5%
≥VGPR: 7–25%
≥PR: 31–50%

PFS/TTP: 50% at
14–21 months
EFS: 27% at 24 months
OS: 50% at 28–34 months
64% at 36 months

35,36,37,38,
39,40,41

CR: 7–16%
≥VGPR: 22–43%
≥PR: 57–76%

PFS: 50% at
15–28 months
EFS: 54% at 24 months
OS: 50% at 28–52 months
80% at 36 months

37,38,39,40

CR: 35%
≥VGPR: 45%
≥PR: 82%

TTP: 50% at 24 months

41

CR: 24%
≥VGPR: 48%
≥PR: 81%

EFS: 95% at 12 months
OS: 100% at 12 months

43

MPT

VMP

MPR

Abbreviations: Bor, bortezomib; CR, complete response; EFS, event-free survival; Len, lenalidomide; Mel, melphalan; MP, melphalan-prednisone; MPR, melphalanprednisone-lenalidomide; MPT, melphalan-prednisone-thalidomide; OS, overall survival; Pdn, Prednisone; PFS, progression-free survival; PR, partial response; Thal,
Thalidomide; TTP, time to progression; VGPR, very good partial response; VMP, bortezomib-melphalan-prednisone; wk, week.

regimen for eligible patients aged 65 years or younger (27).
Tandem autologous transplantation offers better complete
response (CR) rates compared with that of single transplantation: patients who achieved a CR after a single autologous transplantation experienced identical PFS to those
who received a second transplant; by contrast, a second
transplant is essential in patients achieving less than VGPR
after the first one (28,29). Allogenic stem cell transplant
offers substantial CR rate improvement and prolonged
survival, although only a limited number of patients are
eligible and it is associated with high treatment-related
mortality. Tandem autologous transplantation plus reducedintensity conditioning allograft was found to improve the
outcome and reduce the treatment related mortality; an
Italian study showed that patients with a HLA-matched
sibling who received an autograft-allograft regimen had a
significantly survival improvement in comparison with
patients who underwent tandem autograft (30); a French
study did not confirm these results (31).
Patients aged 65 to 70 years, with a good performance status and no relevant comorbidities, are eligible for
a reduced-intensity autologous transplantation: a randomized trial comparing two courses of Mel 100 with standard
MP showed longer three-year event-free survival (EFS) and
OS in patients who underwent transplantation (32).
All randomized studies of transplantation were
designed and implemented prior to the availability of new
drugs, and therefore, the role of transplant may evolve in
the future.
A variety of maintenance strategies have been investigated in patients whose diseases respond to autologous
transplant, without univocal results. Two randomized
studies (33,34) showed longer EFS and OS in patients
treated with thalidomide (plus prednisolone or pamidronate)

compared with patients who received no maintenance or
pamidronate or prednisolone alone.

Front-line Therapy in Elderly Patients or Young
Patients Ineligible for High-Dose Therapy
For elderly patients (older than 65 years) or young patients
ineligible for high-dose therapy, the combination of oral
melphalan and prednisone (MP) for years has been the conventional treatment. Despite better responses, no survival
benefit has been reported with any other conventional chemotherapy. In a randomized trial, MP has been compared
with melphalan plus dexamethasone (MD), HD, and HD
plus interferon-α: improvement in PFS was reported in
patients receiving melphalan as part of the induction treatment (both MP and MD) (35). Another randomized study
compared MP with TD: despite a higher response rate with
TD, patients treated with MP presented a significantly longer survival, particularly evident in patients older than
72 years. Patients on TD treatment had more extrahematological toxicity and early treatment discontinuation (36).
Thus, melphalan or alkylating agents should always be
included in the composition of treatment schema for newly
diagnosed elderly patients. These results have provided the
basis to combine the standard MP with novel agents.
Thalidomide. Four randomized (37–40) studies assessed
the combination MP plus thalidomide (MPT), showing
higher PR rates (57–76%) and longer PFS (median: 15–28
months) in patients treated with MPT compared with
patients receiving MP; in two studies longer PFS translated
into a significant improvement in OS. Thalidomide therapy
was well tolerated; main toxicities were neuropathy, DVT,
infections, and gastrointestinal toxicity, that, however, did
not have a negative impact on survival, even in a very

280

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 15.6

Current Acceptable Regimes and Expected Results for Relapsed Patients

Treatment

Regimen and doses

Response rate

Survival

VD

Bor: 1.3 mg/m2 days 1,4,8,11 for eight 3-wk cycles;
followed by days 1,8,15,22 for three 5-wk cycles
Dex: 20 mg days 1–2, 4–5, 8–9, 11–12 in patients with
progression after 2 cycles or PR after 4 cycles
Bor: 1.3 mg/m2 days 1,4,8,11 PLD: 30 mg/m2 day 4 for
eight 3-wk cycles

CR: 6%
≥PR: 38%
Improved response adding
Dex in 18–33% of patients
CR: 4%
≥VGPR: 27%
≥PR: 44%
CR: 14–16%
PR: 60–61%

TTP: 50% at 6 months
OS: 80% at 12 months

44,45

TTP: 50% at 9 months
OS: 76% at 15 months

46

TTP: 50% at 11 months
OS: 50% at 30 months

47,48

PFS: 47% at 12 months

49

V+PLD

RD

TD

Len: 25 mg days 1–21
Dex: 40 mg days 1–4, 9–12, 17–20 for the first four 4-wk
cycles, then only days 1–4
Thal: 100–400 mg daily for a maximum of 12 months
Dex: 40 mg for 4 days every other wk for 4 cycles and
then monthly

PR: 65%

References

Abbreviations: Bor, bortezomib; CR, complete response; Dex, dexamethasone; Len, lenalidomide; OS, overall survival; PFS, progression-free survival; PLD, pegylated
lyposomal doxorubicin; PR, partial response; RD, lenalidomide-dexamethasone; TD, thalidomide-dexamethasone; Thal, thalidomide TTP, time to progression; VD,
bortezomib-dexamethasone; VGPR, very good partial response; V+PLD, bortezomib-pegylated lyposomal doxorubicin; wk, week.

elderly population of patients aged >75 years (39). When
compared with autologous transplantation (Mel 100) in
patients aged 65 to 75 years old, MPT was associated with
a significant improvement in survival and a significantly
lower extrahematological toxicity (37).
Bortezomib. One randomized study compared MP
with MP plus bortezomib (VMP). Preliminary results demonstrate that VMP was highly superior to MP for CR rate,
TTP, and OS. The TTP benefit was seen consistently across
patient subgroups, and its efficacy was not affected by renal
function or high-risk disease (41), confirming the results
of a phase II study evaluating the same regimen (42). This
regime showed a significant increase in gastrointestinal
toxicities, peripheral neuropathy, fatigue, and infections;
DVT rate was low in both patient subgroups (41).
Lenalidomide. Lenalidomide plus MP (MPR) has been
evaluated in a phase I/II study showing promising results
(one-year PFS and OS of 95% and 100%, respectively);
severe neutropenia was the most frequent adverse event;
the incidence of nonhematologic adverse events was low
(febrile neutropenia 9% and thromboembolism 5%) (43).
A randomized double-blind trial comparing MP versus
MPR is ongoing.

Lenalidomide. RD has received FDA approval based
on the results of two randomized studies comparing RD
with HD in patients who have received at least one prior
treatment, showing that the drug combination significantly
improves TTP and OS (47,48).
Thalidomide. TD has been compared with HD in a
phase III trial, and preliminary results demonstrated higher
response rates and longer one-year PFS in patients treated
with the two drugs (49).
Bortezomib, lenalidomide, and thalidomide can also
be combined with doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, or
melphalan. A chemotherapy agent should be added in the
presence of a suboptimal response to combination including new drugs and steroids; a sequential approach should
be adopted, alternating different drugs in subsequent
relapses. Combinations including chemotherapy regimes
have shown higher response rates in comparison with
dexamethasone alone, although randomized trials should
confirm this preliminary evidence. Table 15.6 shows the
current acceptable regimens and the expected results for
relapsed patients.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Treatment at Relapse
In relapsing patients, it is important to consider response
and toxicities related to prior therapies: relapses occurring
later than 18 months from previous therapy may be
retreated with the same regimen, if well tolerated.
Bortezomib. Bortezomib is considered one of the standards of care for salvage therapy based on the results of
a phase III trial comparing bortezomib and HD, reporting
significant improvement in TTP and one-year OS in
bortezomib-treated patients (44); addiction of dexamethasone was associated with improved responses (45). Recently,
based on results of a phase III trial comparing bortezomib
plus pegylated liposomal doxorubicin with bortezomib alone
[showing that the use of the drug combination significantly
extends both TTP and OS (46)], FDA has approved a regimen consisting of bortezomib plus pegylated liposomal
doxorubicin for patients who have received at least one
prior therapy (not including bortezomib).

We thank Antonella Bono and Tatiana Ouroussouff for technical assistance in preparing and editing the manuscript.

REFERENCES
1. Altieri A, Chen B, Bermejo JL et al. Familiar risk and temporal incidence trends of multiple myeloma. Eur J Cancer 2006;
42: 1161–70.
2. Alexander DD, Mink PJ, Adami HO et al. Multiple myeloma:
a review of the epidemiologic literature. Int J Cancer 2007;
120: 40–61.
3. Smadja NV, Fruchart C, Isnard F et al. Chromosomal analysis in multiple myeloma: cytogenetic evidence of two different diseases. Leukemia 1998; 12: 960–9.
4. Hideshima T, Mitsiades C, Tonon G et al. Understanding
multiple myeloma pathogenesis in the bone marrow to identify new therapeutic targets. Nat Rev Cancer 2007; 7:
585–98.

Chapter 15:
5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.
16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

Carrasco DR, Tonon G, Huang Y et al. High-resolution genomic
profiles define distinct clinico-pathogenetic subgroups of multiple myeloma patients. Cancer Cell 2006; 9: 313–25.
Shaughnessy JD Jr, Zhan F, Burington BE et al. A validated
gene expression model of high-risk multiple myeloma is
defined by deregulated expression of genes mapping to chromosome 1. Blood 2007; 109: 2276–84.
Podar K, Richardson PG, Hideshima T et al. The malignant
clone and the bone-marrow environment. Best Pract Res Clin
Haematol 2007; 20: 597–612.
Rajkumar SV, Dispenzieri A, Kyle RA. Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance, Waldenström macroglobulinemia, AL amyloidosis, and related plasma cell disorders:
diagnosis and treatment. Mayo Clin Proc 2006; 81: 693–703.
Rajkumar SV, Kyle RA, Therneau TM et al. Serum free light
chain ratio is an independent risk factor for progression in
monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. Blood
2005; 106: 812–17.
Weber DM, Wang LM, Delasalle KB et al. Risk factors
for early progression of asymptomatic multiple myeloma.
Hematol J 2003; 4: S31, abstract P4.2.
Durie BG, Harousseau JL, Miguel JS et al. International
uniform response criteria for multiple myeloma. Leukemia
2006; 20: 1467–73.
Greipp PR, San Miguel J, Durie BG et al. International
staging system for multiple myeloma. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23:
3412–20.
Avet-Loiseau H, Attal M, Moreau P et al. Genetic abnormalities and survival in multiple myeloma: the experience of
the Intergroupe Francophone du Myélome. Blood 2007; 109:
3489–95.
Fonseca R, San Miguel J. Prognostic factors and staging in
multiple myeloma. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am 2007; 21:
1115–40.
Bensinger W. Stem-cell transplantation for multiple myeloma
in the era of novel drugs. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 480–92.
Macro M, Divine M, Uzunhan Y et al. Dexamethasone +
thalidomide (dex/thal) compared to VAD as a pre-transplant
treatment in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (MM): a
randomised trial. Blood 2006; 108: abstract 57.
Rajkumar SV, Blood E, Vesole D et al. Phase III clinical trial
of thalidomide plus dexamethasone compared with dexamethasone alone in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma: a
clinical trial coordinated by the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 431–6.
Rajkumar SV, Hussein M, Catalano J et al. A multicenter,
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of thalidomide plus dexamethasone versus dexamethasone alone as
initial therapy for newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. J Clin
Oncol 2006; 24: 7517.
Lokhorst HM, Schmidt-Wolf I, Sonneveld P et al. Thalidomide in induction treatment increases the very good partial
response rate before and after high-dose therapy in previously untreated multiple myeloma. Haematologica 2008;
93: 124–7.
Harousseau JL, Mathiot C, Attal M et al. VELCADE/
dexamethasone (Vel/D) versus VAD as induction treatment
prior to autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) in newly
diagnosed multiple myeloma (MM): updated results of the
IMF 2005/01 trial. Blood 2007; 110: abstract 139.
Cavo M, Patriarca F, Tacchetti P et al. Bortezomib
(Velcade®)-thalidomide-dexamethasone (VTD) vs thalidomidedexamethasone (TD) in preparation for autologous stem-cell
(SC) transplantation (ASCT) in newly diagnosed multiple
myeloma (MM). Blood 2007; 110: abstract 30.
Popat R, Oakervee HE, Hallam S et al. Bortezomib, doxorubicin and dexamethasone (PAD) front-line treatment of
multiple myeloma: updated results after long-term follow-up.
Br J Haematol 2008; 141: 512–16.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

Multiple Myeloma

281

Jakubowiak AJ, Al-Zoubi A, Kendall T et al. Combination
therapy with bortezomib (VELCADE), Doxil, and dexamethasone (VDD) in newly diagnosed myeloma: updated results
of phase II clinical trial. Haematologica 2007; 92: 180–1.
Palumbo A, Avonto I, Patriarca F et al. Bortezomib, peylatedlyposomal-doxorubicin and dexamethasone followed by
melphalan 100 mg/m2 in elderly newly diagnosed patients:
an interim analysis. Blood 2007; 110: abstract 138.
Zonder JA, Crowley J, Hussein MA et al. Superiority of
Lenalidomide (Len) plus high-dose dexamethasone (HD)
compared to HD alone as treatment of newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (NDMM): results of the randomized, doubleblinded, placebo-controlled SWOG Trial S0232. Blood 2007;
110: 32a, abstract 77.
Rajkumar SV, Jacobus S, Callander N et al. A randomized
trial of Lenalidomide plus high-dose dexamethasone (RD)
versus Lenalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone (Rd) in
newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (E4A03): a trial coordinated by the Eastern Cooperative Group. Blood 2007; 110:
abstract 74.
Moreau P, Facon T, Attal M et al. Comparison of 200 mg/m2
melphalan and 8 Gy total body irradiation plus 140 mg/m2
melphalan as conditioning regimens for peripheral blood stem
cell transplantation in patients with newly diagnosed multiple
myeloma: final analysis of the Intergroupe Francophone du
Myélome 9502 randomized trial. Blood 2002; 99: 731–5.
Cavo M, Tosi P, Zamagni E et al. Prospective, randomized
study of single compared with double autologous stem-cell
transplantation for multiple myeloma: Bologna 96 clinical
study. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 2434–41.
Attal M, Harousseau JL, Facon T et al. Single versus double
autologous stem-cell transplantation for multiple myeloma.
N Engl J Med 2003; 349: 2495–502.
Bruno B, Rotta M, Patriarca F et al. A comparison of allografting with autografting for newly diagnosed myeloma. N Engl
J Med 2007; 356: 1110–20.
Garban F, Attal M, Michallet M et al. Prospective comparison
of autologous stem cell transplantation followed by dosereduced allograft (IFM99-03 trial) with tandem autologous
stem cell transplantation (IFM99-04 trial) in high-risk de novo
multiple myeloma. Blood 2006; 107: 3474–80.
Palumbo A, Bringhen S, Petrucci MT et al. Intermediate-dose
melphalan improves survival of myeloma patients aged 50
to 70: results of a randomized controlled trial. Blood 2004;
104: 3052–7.
Attal M, Harousseau JL, Leyvraz S et al. Maintenance therapy
with thalidomide improves survival in patients with multiple
myeloma. Blood 2006; 108: 3289–94.
Spencer A, Prince HM, Roberts A et al. Thalidomide improve
survivals when use after ASCT. Haematologica 2007; 92:
abstract S7b.
Facon T, Mary JY, Pégourie B et al. Dexamethasone-based
regimens versus melphalan-prednisone for elderly multiple
myeloma patients ineligible for high-dose therapy. Blood 2006;
107: 1292–8.
Ludwig H, Tothova E, Hajek R et al. Thalidomidedexamethasone versus melphalan prednisolone as first line
treatment in elderly patients with multiple myeloma: second
interim analysis. Haematologica 2007; 1: abstract 446.
Facon T, Mary JY, Hulin C et al. Melphalan and prednisone
plus thalidomide versus melphalan and prednisone alone or
reduced-intensity autologous stem cell transplantation in
elderly patients with multiple myeloma (IFM 99-06): a randomised trial. Lancet 2007; 370: 1209–18.
Palumbo A, Bringhen S, Caravita T et al. Oral melphalan and
prednisone chemotherapy plus thalidomide compared with
melphalan and prednisone alone in elderly patients with
multiple myeloma: randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2006;
367: 825–31.

282

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

39. Hulin C, Facon T, Rodon P et al. Melphalan-PrednisoneThalidomide (MP-T) demonstrates a significant survival advantage in elderly patients >75 years with multiple myeloma
compared with Melphalan and Prednisone (MP) in a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled trial IFM 01-01. Blood
2007; 110: abstract 75.
40. Waage A, Gimsing P, Juliusson G et al. Melphalan-PrednisoneThalidomide to newly diagnosed patients with multiple
myeloma: a placebo controlled randomised trial phase 3 trial.
Blood 2007; 110: abstract 78.
41. San Miguel JF, Schlag R, Khuageva N et al. MMY-3002: a
phase 3 study comparing bortezomib-melphalan-prednisone
(VMP) with melphalan-prednisone (MP) in newly diagnosed
multiple myeloma. Blood 2007; 110: abstract 31.
42. Mateos M-V, Hernàndez J-M, Hernàndez M-T et al. Bortezomib plus melphalan and prednisone in elderly untreated
patients with multiple myeloma: updated time-to-events results
and prognostic factors for time to progression. Haematologica
2008; 93: 560–5.
43. Palumbo A, Falco P, Corradini P et al. Melphalan, prednisone,
and lenalidomide treatment for newly diagnosed myeloma:
a report from the GIMEMA--Italian Multiple Myeloma Network. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 4459–65.

44. Richardson PG, Sonneveld P, Schuster MW et al. Bortezomib
or high-dose dexamethasone for relapsed multiple myeloma.
N Engl J Med 2005; 352: 2487–98.
45. Jagannath S, Richardson PG, Barlogie B et al. Bortezomib in
combination with dexamethasone for the treatment of patients
with relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma with less
than optimal response to bortezomib alone. Haematologica
2006; 91: 929–34.
46. Orlowski RZ, Nagler A, Sonneveld P et al. Randomized
phase III study of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin plus
bortezomib compared with bortezomib alone in relapsed or
refractory multiple myeloma: combination therapy improves
time to progression. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 3892–901.
47. Weber DM, Chen C, Niesvizky R et al. Lenalidomide plus
dexamethasone for relapsed multiple myeloma in North
America. N Engl J Med 2007; 357: 2133–42.
48. Dimopoulos M, Spencer A, Attal M et al. Lenalidomide plus
dexamethasone for relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.
N Engl J Med 2007; 357: 2123–32.
49. Fermand JP, Jaccard A, Macro M et al. A randomized
comparison of dexamethasone + thalidomide (Dex/Thal) vs
Dex + Placebo (Dex/P) in patients (pts) with relapsing
multiple myeloma (MM). Blood 2006; 108: abstract 3563.

16
1
Management of Gliomas, Medulloblastoma, CNS Germ Cell Tumors,
and Carcinomas Metastatic to the CNS
Andreas F. Hottinger, Damien C. Weber, Marc Levivier, and Roger Stupp

tumors may also be associated with cognitive or personality
changes.

INTRODUCTION
Primary tumors of the central nervous system need to be
distinguished from metastatic lesions. Although primary
brain tumors are relatively rare in adults, with a yearly
incidence of approximately 10/100,000 representing only
2% of all malignancies, brain metastases (secondary brain
tumors) are more common and present in almost one out
of four patients with advanced stage cancer and in onefourth of patients who die from cancer. The most common
primary tumors are lung, breast carcinoma, and melanoma.
An increasing incidence of both primary and secondary
brain tumors since the 1970s has been suggested. This
likely reflects greater access to imaging and improved
neuroimaging techniques as well as better treatments and
longer survival of cancer patients in general.

Patient Workup
The workup needs to answer a number of key questions:
(a) Is it a single lesion, or are multiple lesions visible?
(b) Does this patient have a known underlying disease
(e.g., known active or previously treated cancer; immunosuppressive state (abscess, lymphoma), or (c) Is it surgically
accessible for complete resection or debulking?
Multiple lesions are suggestive of a metastatic tumor,
while a single mass may be either a primary or a metastatic
brain tumor. The most frequent origin for a brain metastasis
is primary lung and breast cancer, which can be detected
by a standard chest-X-ray or a mammography and clinical
breast examination. Brain metastases may also be due to
occult renal cell cancer or previously unrecognized melanoma (e.g., resected “benign naevus” many years ago). In
case of a single symptomatic CNS tumor, immediate resection will provide symptomatic relief and treatment as well
as histological diagnosis. This is more efficient than extensive visceral workup aiming at identifying a putative primary tumor, whereas the ultimate treatment approach
remains tumor resection in the brain. If a primary CNS
lymphoma is suspected or an abscess cannot be ruled out,
steroids should be withheld until surgical sampling.
Management of brain tumors requires a multidisciplinary team and coordinated diagnostic approach. For all
decisions regarding the management of brain tumors, the
performance status and neurological function plays an
important role. Ideally, patients should be discussed upfront
between neuroradiologists, pathologists, neurosurgeons,
medical, neuro-, and radiation oncologists. This will allow
the possibility of obtaining tumor tissue in an effective way
to establish the correct diagnosis, maximum tumor debulking, and adequate postoperative therapy with radiation
and/or chemotherapy.
In this chapter, the main features and treatments of
primary and secondary (metastatic) brain tumors are summarized, and the management of primary CNS lymphoma
is covered in chapter 16.

Neurological Signs and Symptoms
Symptoms related to intracranial tumors may be manifold
and nonspecific (Table 16.1). Many patients with brain
tumors have no or only minor symptoms for a long time,
in whom the diagnosis may be fortuitous. Other patients
may have abrupt onset of symptoms secondary to complications of the tumor such as seizure, increased intracranial
pressure (e.g., obstructive hydrocephalus), intracranial
bleeding, or ischemia. Except in the case of an acute event,
the neurological examination is often normal, and a high
index of suspicion is necessary. Headache is the most
common symptom of a brain tumor. It is, however, nonspecific and may occur both in patients with increased or
normal intracranial pressure. Some specific features should
increase the suspicion of a tumor, such as new onset of
headaches in middle-aged or older persons, daily headache
on waking improving rapidly thereafter, change in pattern,
character, or severity of a chronic headache, exacerbation
of headache following coughing, sneezing, head movement, or exertion, acute headache followed by vomiting,
or any headache with accompanying neurological deficit.
Poorly described dizziness and tinnitus are also common
complaints of patients with new brain tumors. Focal seizures, with or without secondary generalization, are the
most common localized sign of a brain tumor and occur
in about one-third of patients, in particular, if the tumor
is localized close to the cortex. Conversely, about 20% of
adults with inaugural seizures will have an underlying
brain tumor. Possible focal findings include hemiparesis,
aphasia, visual field loss, and sensory disturbances. Brain

PRIMARY BRAIN TUMORS
Primary brain tumors are subdivided according to their localization: i.e., brain parenchyma, meninges, pituitary region,
283

284

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 16.1

Common Signs and Symptoms of Brain Tumors

• No symptoms
• Headache
• Nausea/vomiting (especially on awakening)
• Changes of personality
• Memory loss
• Confusion
• Seizures
• Focal weakness
• Difficulty walking
• Visual disturbances
• Tinnitus

pineal region, or skull base. Definite diagnosis of primary
brain tumors requires histopathological assessment and is
based on the cell of origin of the tumor. The World Health
Organization (WHO) classification is most commonly used,
and regularly updated, most recently in 2006 (Table 16.2).
The classification is based on histological features and
architecture, with molecular markers being recognized and
described, but not (yet) included as a standard diagnostic
procedure. Within a tumor, differences in grade may be
observed. The most malignant grade defines the diagnosis
and will determine the prognosis. Because of the relative
rarity of primary brain tumors, review by an experienced
and specialized neuropathologist is recommended.
The incidence of primary brain tumors varies by race,
age, sex, and geography. Brain tumors, with the exception
of pituitary adenomas and meningiomas, are more common
in Caucasians than in other ethnic groups. Men are at
higher risk than women for developing most brain tumors,
except for meningiomas (1).
Ionizing radiation and immune suppression are the
two only unequivocal risk factors identified for the development of brain tumors. Many other risk factors (including
electromagnetic fields, aspartame, exposure to petroleum
derivatives or pesticides and tuberculosis, varicella zoster
or simian virus 40 infections) have been reported in some
smaller and nonconclusive studies. An increasing number
of molecular genetic alterations have been identified in
association with specific brain tumors (Fig. 16.1) (2). In
summary, genetic changes involved in the pathogenesis of
gliomas affect two major cell functions:
1. Overexpression of growth factors or their receptors
[such as epithelial growth factor (EGF), or plateletderived growth factor (PDGF)] that directly or indirectly activate signaling pathways such as RAS and
AKT: Alternatively, inactivating mutations of tumor
suppressors such as PTEN results in blocked inhibition
of the same pathways.
2. Alteration of the cell cycle: Loss of inhibitors of the cell
cycle such as INK4A, RB, p53, and others can also lead
to tumor formation.
Further developments in genomics and proteomics
will result in an exponential increase in the knowledge
about brain tumors and should lead to the development
of novel therapeutic strategies.
Gliomas account for over two-thirds of primary brain
tumors, with glioblastoma being the most frequent primary

Table 16.2

WHO Histological Classification of Brain Tumors

Neuroepithelial tumors
• Astrocytic tumors
° Pilocytic astrocytoma (grade 1)
° Diffuse astrocytoma (grade 2)
° Anaplastic astrocytoma (grade 3)
° Glioblastoma (grade 4)
° Pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma
° Subependymal giant cell astrocytoma
• Oligodendroglial tumors
° Oligodendroglioma, low-grade (2) or anaplastic (grade 3)
• Ependymal tumors
° Ependymoma, low-grade (2) or anaplastic (grade 3)
° Myxopapillary ependymoma
° Subependymoma
• Choroid plexus
° Choroid plexus papilloma
° Choroid plexus carcinoma
• Neuronal/mixed glial neuronal tumors
° Gangliocytoma
° Ganglioglioma
° Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor
° Central neurocytoma
• Pineal parenchymal tumors
° Pineocytoma
° Pineal parenchymal tumor of intermediate differentiation
° Pineoblastoma
• Embryonal tumors
° Medulloblastoma
° Primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNE T )
° Atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor
Tumors of cranial nerve
• Schwannoma
• Neurofibroma
• Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor
Meningeal tumors
• Meningioma
• Hemangiopericytoma
• Hemangioblastoma
• Melanocytoma
Germ cell tumors
• Germinoma
• Teratoma, mature or immature
• Mixed tumors
• Embryonal carcinoma
• Yolk sac tumor (endodermal sinus tumor)
• Choriocarcinoma
Primary CNS Lymphoma
Tumors of the sellar region
• Pituitary adenoma (not included in WHO CNS tumors)
• Craniopharyngioma
• Granular cell tumor
Cysts and tumor-like lesions
• Rathke cleft cysts
• Epidermoid cyst
• Dermoid cyst
• Colloid cyst of third ventricle
Metastatic tumors: not included in WHO CNS tumors

brain tumor in adults. Gliomas arise from one of the basic
types of glial cells: astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and
ependymal cells. The different types of gliomas have a
number of common characteristics, notably their infiltrative
growth pattern and absence of distinct margins, usually
preventing complete resection. Genetic instability leads to

Chapter 16:

Management of Gliomas, Medulloblastoma, CNS Germ Cell Tumors, and Carcinomas Metastatic to the CNS

LOH 1p/19p
50–70%

285

Oligodendroglioma
grade III
(chemosensitive)

Oligodendroglioma grade II

Oligodendrocyte

P16/
CDKN2A
(50%)

Oligodendroglioma
grade III
(chemoresistant)

Astrocyte

P16/
CDKN2A
(30%)

PDGFR
PTEN
(20%)

LOH 10q
(80%)

LOH 10q
(50%)
TP 53
(50%)

P16/CDKN2A (50%)
RB (20%)
CDK4 (10%)

EGFR
(40%)

EGFR
(20%)

Astrocytoma
grade II

Astrocytoma
grade III
Oligodendroglioma
grade IV
(GBMO)

LOH 10q
(80%)
Astrocytoma grade IV
(primary glioblastoma)

?

Astrocytoma grade IV
(secondary glioblastoma)

Figure 16.1 Molecular pathways of primary brain tumors. Source: From Ref. 2 with permission. Abbreviations: LOH, loss of heterozygosity;
GBM, glioblastoma; GBMO, glioblastoma with oligodendroglial component. Dark grey squares correspond to genetic alterations of cell cycle control.
TP53, mutation; RB, mutation; P16/CDKN2A, homozygous deletion; CDK4, amplification. Mid grey squares correspond to genetic alterations affecting
signal transduction pathways. EGFR, amplification; PDGFR, overexpression; PTEN, mutation. Light grey squares correspond to loss of heterozygosity on
chromosomes 1p/19q or 10q.

Surgery
Neurosurgery plays a central role in the management of
most brain tumors. The goal of surgery in neuro-oncology
is manifold:
• Diagnostic: To obtain adequate tissue for accurate histological diagnostic, to optimize prognosis and therapeutic choices.
• Symptomatic: To improve the neurological function,
by relieving focal mass effect and intracranial
hypertension.
• Therapeutic: Cytoreduction with complete or partial
removal of the tumor. Some local therapies may also be
delivered surgically (e.g., convection-enhanced delivery,
carmustine-impregnated biodegradable wafers).
Several operative approaches and surgical techniques may be used to treat brain tumors. The choice
will depend on the size and the location of the tumor,
its radiological characteristics, the presumed histological
diagnosis, as well as the age, general clinical status, and
neurological symptoms of the patient. In the presence of
a space-occupying lesion in the brain, general surgical

principles prevail; however, they will be adapted on the
basis of the specific type of tumor, i.e., whether benign
or malignant, primary or secondary.
Advancement and new possibilities in modern
medical imaging, as well as progress and developments
in neurosurgical techniques and in neuro-anesthesia allow
improved surgical performances, while reducing the operative risks and complications. Image-guided and computer-assisted neurosurgery plays an increasing role in the
surgical management of brain tumors. Stereotaxic tumor
localization allows performing accurate and safe biopsy
in almost any area of the brain. Neuronavigation allows
for improving the resection of brain tumors, thanks to
accurate preoperative planning and more precise intraoperative guidance. Radiosurgery, which combines stereotaxis and radiation therapy, offers complementary or
alternative therapeutic approaches, based on the same
image-guidance principles. Modern software planning for
stereotaxis, neuronavigation, and radiosurgery allows
integrating multimodality images, including functional
and metabolic data, such as PET scan.
Ideally, the goal of the neurosurgical procedure
is to perform complete resection of the tumor and to

286

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

cure the patient. Because the nervous system is a
highly functional organ, this concept can only rarely
be fulfilled, and the neurosurgical resection is limited
by the functional areas surrounding the tumor and the
risks of complications. Most benign extra-axial tumors,
such as meningiomas or schwannomas, can be totally
resected. In some instances, when the lesion is located
in the skull-base and involves functional structures,
such as cranial nerves or major vessels, the tumor cannot be resected in toto, and the residual disease may
give rise to recurrence. Primary intracerebral tumors
are infiltrating by nature, which often precludes complete resection. If the lesion is small and focal, located
in a cerebral lobe, a lobectomy approach might allow
the removal of the entire tumor, especially in lowgrade glioma. In most cases, subtotal resection or debulking of the tumor is performed. Even in these cases,
attempt to perform maximal resection is recommended,
since it results in better survival. Secondary tumors, i.e.,
metastases of systemic cancers, are well-circumscribed
lesions that may benefit of complete surgical removal.
When the lesion is large and symptomatic due to
mass effect, surgery will allow the most rapid clinical
improvement. Surgery is often recommended for single
brain metastasis.
Stereotactic biopsy, a relatively simple procedure
allows for tissue diagnosis of deep seated unresectable
tumors or when the patient’s general condition does not
allow surgical tumor resection. The risk of bleeding is
estimated between 1% and 3%.
Radiation Therapy
Radiation therapy (RT) is an essential treatment modality for CNS tumors and is often combined with chemotherapy. RT induces (single and double strand) DNA
breakage and ultimately induces apoptosis. The efficacy
of RT depends on the delivery of adequate dose of RT
to the target tissue, while sparing normal structures in
the vicinity of the target volume.
RT is usually administered with photons delivered with a high-energy linear accelerator. Protons

a tendency of malignant degeneration over time. Histologically, gliomas are graded from one to four. Grade 1
and 2 gliomas are often referred to as low-grade gliomas
(or incorrectly benign gliomas), and grades 3 and 4 are
described as high grade. Grade 1 gliomas are pilocytic
astrocytomas almost exclusively seen in children; diffuse
gliomas are either low-grade (grade 2) or anaplastic (grade
3), in its most aggressive form glioblastoma (grade 4). The
prognosis and treatment is determined mainly by their
histological grade, and to a lesser extent, also by the underlying cell type. Prognostic factors for a better outcome
include younger age of the patient and tumor resectability.
In elderly patients, tumors are often more aggressive and
carry an inferior prognosis.

and charged heavy particles may also be used for the
treatment of brain tumors. External beam radiotherapy
is the most common RT-technique for brain tumors. It
uses multiple spatially distributed intersecting beams
to deliver RT to a defined 3D volume. Multiple equal
doses of radiotherapy are administered, and patients
must be immobilized in a fixation mask to ensure accuracy. Stereotactic RT regroups a number of techniques
for the delivery of radiation beams to a very precise
location. The two methods consist of (1) a multiheaded
cobalt unit (gamma-knife) and (2) a linear accelerator
capable of administering RT in multiple coplanar arcs
or multiple coplanar beams in stereotactic conditions.
Dose can be delivered in one fraction (i.e., radiosurgery)
or with a conventional fractionation scheme (stereotactic fractionated RT). Particle beam radiotherapy uses
heavy particles such as protons and neutrons. As these
particles deposit their energy at the end of their trajectory through tissue (Bragg peak effect), this technique allows to precisely deliver the dose to the target
volume. Proton therapy is restricted to the management of skull base tumors (chordoma and chondrosarcoma), pediatric brain tumors, and occasionally
pituitary adenomas.
The side effects of RT are classified as acute, early
delayed, and late complications. Acute reactions develop
within hours to days of treatment and are typically
caused by increased tumor associated edema, which
may be treated with steroids. Early delayed complications, such as alopecia, skin erythema, and asthenia
occur six weeks to six months following RT. Focal demyelination may induce transitory worsening neurological
deficits. Furthermore, patients may present with fatigue
and mild memory impairment. Radionecrosis and cognitive dysfunction are occasional late complications of RT,
typically occurring years after completion of RT. The
probability of developing radionecrosis and cognitive
impairments increase with the total administered dose
and dose per fraction, respectively. Provided that the
brain-dose tolerance is considered, several prospective
studies have shown that these complications are rare.

Glioblastoma
Glioblastoma (GBM)—in older terminology referred to
as glioblastoma multiforme—is the most common and
most aggressive of all primary brain tumors (3). It accounts
for 12% to 15% of all intracranial neoplasms and 45% to
50% of all gliomas, with an incidence of 3–5:100,000 per
year (3). It may affect patients of any age but is observed
most commonly in individuals between age 45 and
65 years. There is a slight male preponderance (ratio 1.5:1).
GBM usually develops in the subcortical white matter of
the cerebral hemispheres, most commonly in the frontal
and temporal lobes. It can however occur anywhere in the
CNS, including the spinal cord. Most GBM arise de novo
without recognizable precursor lesions (primary GBM).

Chapter 16:

Management of Gliomas, Medulloblastoma, CNS Germ Cell Tumors, and Carcinomas Metastatic to the CNS

Figure 16.2 Radiological appearance of glioblastoma on MRI
(gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted MR image).

Secondary GBM develop from lower-grade diffuse gliomas
(WHO grade 2) or from anaplastic gliomas (WHO grade
3). Although the underlying genetic mechanisms involved
in the pathogenesis is entirely different for primary and
secondary GBM and can be determined on a molecular
level, the two types cannot be distinguished histologically
(Fig. 16.1). Similarly, prognosis and treatment are the same
once a glioblastoma has been formally established. For
practical purposes, we distinguish the more common de
novo (primary) GBMs based on a short clinical history of
symptoms lasting for less than three months, from patients
with a longer evolution, symptoms dating back >6 months
to years, or prior diagnosis of a lower-grade glioma. On
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), GBM appear as a heterogeneous enhancing mass with or without necrotic or
cystic core. The margins are usually diffuse reflecting the
invasiveness of the normal surrounding brain parenchyma
of these tumors. Prominent peritumoral edema is common
(Fig. 16.2). Histopathological confirmation of the diagnosis
is mandatory and may allow further molecular tumor characterization. The latter is of increasing importance as novel,
tailored, and targeted treatments emerge and, ideally, some
tumor tissue should be conserved frozen at initial diagnostic procedure. GBM shows cellular and nuclear atypia,
endothelial proliferation and, necrosis typically surrounded
by radially oriented densely packed, small fusiform glioma
cells in a pseudopalisading pattern.

Management of Newly Diagnosed GBM
Surgical resection to the extent that is safely feasible
remains the first step in the management of glioblastoma.
Strategies of primary (neoadjuvant) chemotherapy before

287

Anti-epileptic Drugs and Chemotherapy
A significant number of patients with high-grade
gliomas and metastases develop seizures, especially if
the tumor is localized close to the cortex and in the
temporal, frontal, or parietal lobe. The seizures are
typically simple partial, complex partial, or secondary
generalized.
Antiepileptic drugs may induce overlapping
toxicity with chemo- or radiation therapy [e.g., myelosuppression, dermatologic reactions, and radiosensitization. Many antiepileptic drugs (notably phenytoin,
phenobarbital, carbamazeipin and its derivates) will
induce the P450 hepatic enzymes thus increasing the
metabolism of hepatically eliminated chemotherapeutic agents. This is less relevant for nitrosoureas, temozolomide, thiotepa, methotrexate, and corticosteroids
(78)]. Conversely, many chemotherapeutic agents
alter the metabolism of anticonvulsant agents. Thus,
third-generation antiepileptic drugs should be the
first choice in cancer patients.
Prophylactic administration of anticonvulsant
medication in patients who never had a seizure has
been abandoned; anticonvulsants prophylactically prescribed because of brain surgery should be tapered and
discontinued in the first postoperative weeks (79).

surgery remain investigational and are unlikely to have an
impact on resectability and outcome as long the commonly
used agents provide objective response rates below 10%.
Primary chemotherapy may be considered in patients with
multifocal and inoperable disease requiring very large
radiation fields or whole brain irradiation. Postoperative
radiotherapy (or definitive radiotherapy in patients with
unresectable disease) has been established more than
30 years ago, showing a modest but definite prolongation
of median survival.
Chemotherapy in association with radiation has
become the standard of care as first line therapy for GBM
(Fig. 16.3). Temozolomide (TMZ) is administered orally at
a continuous low dose (75 mg/m2 daily, seven days per
week) from the first to the last day of radiation therapy,
up to a maximum of 49 days, together with concomitant
radiotherapy (TMZ/RT). After a four-week break and a
new MRI, adjuvant (better termed as “maintenance”) TMZ
treatment is given on a standard schedule (150–200 mg/m2
daily x 5 days every 28 days) for up to six cycles (Fig. 16.3).
In a landmark phase III trial conducted by the European
Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer
(EORTC) and the National Cancer Institute of Canada
Clinical Trials Group (NCIC), this regimen was compared
to standard focal RT alone. Median survival was prolonged
with the combined modality treatment from 12.1 months
for patients receiving initially RT alone to 14.6 months for
patients treated with TMZ/RT→TMZ (4). Although this
increase in median survival is certainly modest, the increase
of two-year survival rate from 10% to 27% for the TMZ/
RT group is clinically relevant and the benefit persists with
longer follow-up, although patients continue to recur and
die of disease even after three to five years. At five years,

288

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Concomitant

Adjuvant TMZ

TMZ/RTa

R
0

6

10

14

18

22

26

30

Weeks

RT Alone
Temozolomide 75 mg/m2 po qd for 6 weeks,
then 150–200 mg/m2 po qd d1–5 every 28 days for 6 cycles
Focal RT daily — 30 × 200 cGy
Total dose 60 Gy

Figure 16.3

Treatment regimen for GBM. aPCP prophylaxis was required for patients receiving TMZ during the concomitant phase.

10% of the patients treated initially with TMZ/RT were
alive compared to only 2% with RT alone (5). Of importance, the improvement in survival from the early addition
of chemotherapy can be seen in all clinical prognostic subgroups, although the absolute benefit is largest in the
group of younger patients and those who have undergone
prior tumor resection, which are known to be prognostically more favorable (6).
Retrospective molecular analysis of a representative
subgroup of patients where adequate tumor tissue was
available demonstrated that the benefit of the addition of
TMZ chemotherapy is restricted mainly to patients whose
tumors have a methylated methyl guanine methyl transferase (MGMT) gene promoter (7). MGMT is a ubiquitous
DNA repair protein that can revert the damage induced
by alkylating chemotherapy agents (e.g., TMZ) on the
O6-position of the guanine. Methylation of the gene promoter (an epigenetic modification present in approximately 30–50% of GBM) will silence the gene and thus
make the tumor cells more susceptible to alkylating agent
chemotherapy. The predictive value of MGMT is currently
being explored in a large randomized trial (RTOG0525/
EORTC26052). If this is confirmed, different treatment
strategies based on the molecular profile of their tumors
may be proposed in the future to patients. One limitation
to the implementation in the clinic is currently the lack of
promising alternative strategies for patients whose tumors
express the MGMT repair protein.
Most clinical trials for glioblastoma have restricted
participation to patients younger than 65 to 70 years of
age, as prognosis in older patients was considered particularly dismal. However, one-third of GBM patients are older
than 65 years, and the management of these patients
remains controversial. The benefit of radiotherapy in
patients older than 65 years has recently been confirmed
in a randomized trial comparing radiotherapy to best
supportive care alone. Median survival was increased from
3.9 to 6.9 months and resulted in a better quality of life
(8). A Canadian study showed equivalent survival rates in

patients treated with hypofractionated RT more than 15
sessions compared to standard RT (9). These data suggest
that elderly patients may, in the absence of significant
comorbidity, benefit from a standard treatment approach
or from accelerated RT. The role of chemotherapy in
these patients is currently being evaluated in a number of
ongoing trials.

Management of Recurrent Disease
At recurrence, therapeutic options remain limited. In all cases,
the possibility of a new surgical resection must be reevaluated.
For smaller tumors, radiosurgery or re-irradiation may be
an option, although the benefits of these modalities have
never been evaluated in prospective trials. A limitation of
all localized treatments is the diffuse and infiltrative nature
of recurrent glioma, likely to progress elsewhere rapidly
even if controlled at the site of initial presentation. If available, inclusion into a clinical trial is certainly the most
appropriate option.
As TMZ is used as a first line treatment in most
patients, there are only few data available for the use of
this agent in the recurrent setting. If there is a treatment
interval of several months, successful re-treatment with
TMZ has been reported (10), and treatment with a nitrosourea (lomustine, carmustine) may also be an option. Gliomas
express high levels of vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF), which is responsible, among others, for the vascular proliferation observed in GBM. Bevacizumab is a recombinant humanized antibody that binds to and inactivates
the VEGF receptor. CPT-11 (Irinotecan®) is a topoisomerase
I inhibitor that has by itself shown modest activity in the
treatment of recurrent GBM with response rates of 0% to
18% (11). Recent reports from uncontrolled studies showed
an unusually high response rate of 60%, a six-month
progression-free survival rate of 40% to 50% and a median
survival of nine months with the combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan (CPT-11) in patients with GBM and
anaplastic astrocytomas (12).

Chapter 16:

Management of Gliomas, Medulloblastoma, CNS Germ Cell Tumors, and Carcinomas Metastatic to the CNS

Anaplastic Astrocytoma
Between 10% and 30% of all gliomas are anaplastic astrocytomas (AAs). The age group most affected is between
45 and 69 years. The male to female ratio is 1.2:1. The
annual incidence is about 0.3 per 100,000. In populationbased registries, AAs constitute 4% of all malignant nervous
system tumors. Although most of the AAs are sporadic,
certain inherited syndromes, such as neurofibromatosis
types 1 and 2, tuberous sclerosis, and Li-Fraumeni syndrome predispose to developing astrocytomas. Anaplastic
astrocytoma (WHO grade 3) is accompanied by genetic
alterations, including loss of heterozygosity on chromosome 19 (13). Anaplastic astrocytomas frequently evolve
from a less malignant precursor lesion and may further
transform into glioblastomas.
Clinically, anaplastic astrocytomas are a heterogenous group of disease translating in very diverse outcomes.
Although some anaplastic astrocytomas behave and evolve
rapidly within a few months, others will have a more
protracted course over two to four years. The median survival is approximately two years. Previously, clinical trials
often included grade 3 tumors within a general treatment
strategy of malignant gliomas that also included glioblastomas and the more favorable oligodendrogliomas. On
MRI, anaplastic astrocytomas typically appear as solid
masses with surrounding edema and mass effect. Contrast
enhancement can be observed in 80% to 90% of cases.
However, anaplastic astrocytomas without contrast uptake
may be observed. The histopathological features of AAs
are those of diffuse infiltrating astrocytomas with increased
cellularity, distinct nuclear atypia, and increased mitotic
activity. By definition, microvascular proliferation and
necrosis are absent. Although there is usually a good
concordance between pathologists in diagnosis for grade
4 tumors, disagreement in >30% of samples is common for
anaplastic astrocytoma and other grade 3 tumors.

Treatment
Only few and insufficient data on outcome and optimal
management are available from the literature. Initial studies suggested a benefit with the alkylating agent carmustine for patients with AAs exclusively (14), but this
observation could not be confirmed in subsequent studies
(15). Exclusive radiotherapy remains the standard of care,
often in conjunction with adjuvant carmustine (BCNU)
based on trials including all malignant glioma in the early
1980s. In daily practice, therapy is commonly prescribed
in analogy to GBM despite the absence of definitive evidence. This approach is however debatable. One cannot
assume that AA patients will benefit equally as those suffering from GBM. Moreover, the potential side effects of
RT or of a prolonged treatment with an alkylating agent
must be taken into account. For instance, transient (20%)
and persisting (4%) myelosuppression was observed in
patients with GBM (16). A number of studies have been
designed in recent years to address this issue. A randomized RTOG trial (#9813) comparing RT and carmustine
versus RT and TMZ has been closed because of insufficient
accrual. An ongoing EORTC-Intergroup trial (CATNON)
is comparing standard RT to TMZ/RT, RT→TMZ or TMZ/
RT→TMZ, aiming also to answer the question whether

289

concomitant chemoradiotherapy alone without prolonged
maintenance therapy may account for improved outcome.
At recurrence, anaplastic astrocytomas have often
transformed into a more aggressive variant and are commonly treated like recurrent GBM in function of the prior
treatment exposure. In recurrent anaplastic astrocytoma,
single TMZ has shown a high response rate of 35% in a
large phase 2 trial (17).

Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma (WHO Grade 3)
and Oligodendroglioma (WHO Grade 2)
Oligodendroglial tumors arise from oligodendrocytes or
their precursors. They account for 2.7% of primary brain
tumors and 9.5% of all gliomas. According to WHO criteria,
oligodendrogliomas are classified into grade 2 oligodendroglioma and anaplastic oligodendroglioma (grade 3). The
proliferation index is generally low (<5% MIB-1 positive
cells) in grade 2 tumors and higher in grade 3 tumors (18).
Mixed-type tumors with oligodendroglial and astrocytic
features account for 5% to 10% of all gliomas (3). Given
the differences in origin and prognosis, oligoastrocytomas
and in particular oligodendrogliomas are considered as
separate entities. The biological behavior and clinical prognosis of anaplastic mixed oligo-astrocytomas is similar to
anaplastic astrocytomas. The therapeutic considerations are
therefore identical for these tumors. Clear histological distinction of pure oligodendroglioma is not always possible.
Pure oligodendroglioma with genetic loss on chromosomes
1p and 19q, recently identified as a translocation t(1p;19q),
have a much more protracted natural history and are
exquisitely sensitive to both radiation and chemotherapy
treatment.
Grade 2 oligodendrogliomas are typically slow growing tumors, and 10-year survival rates of more than 50%
may be observed. Favorable risk factors include absence of
contrast enhancement on MRI, frontal localization, younger
age at initial diagnosis, complete surgical resection, and
high postoperative performance status. With current treatments, combining maximal surgery and RT, progressionfree intervals of 2 to 2.5 years and median overall survival
rates of four to five years are regularly achieved in grade
3 tumors, which may exceed seven years for patients
with anaplastic oligodendroglial tumors with 1p/19q loss,
compared with only three years for patients without the
translocation (19).
Oligodendrogliomas show a T1 hypointense and
T2 hyperintense well-demarcated lesion on MRI imaging
with only little peritumoral edema. Contrast enhancement
is rare and may be a sign of malignant transformation
with a worse prognosis. Anaplastic oligodendrogliomas
may show heterogeneous patterns due to variable presence of cystic degeneration, intratumoral hemorrhage,
necrosis, and calcification.

Treatment
Based on the observation that recurrent oligodendroglial
tumors are particularly responsive to combination chemotherapy with procarbazine, lomustine (CCNU), and vincristine (PCV), the RTOG in the United States and the EORTC
in Europe launched two large randomized phase III trials
investigating the value of (neo-)adjuvant PCV-chemotherapy

290

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

before or after radiation for patients with newly diagnosed
anaplastic oligoastrocytoma and oligodendroglioma (19,20).
Both studies failed to demonstrate a significant improvement in overall survival, although a prolonged time to
tumor progression was shown in the European study. Even
in the subgroup of prognostically more favorable and presumably particularly chemosensitive pure oligodendroglioma with LOH 1p/19q, no advantage in favor of early
chemotherapy could be shown. However, the much better
overall prognosis and more protracted natural history
could be confirmed for oligodendrogliomas with LOH 1p
and 19q. These trials definitively establish oligodendroglioma with LOH1p/19q as a distinct pathologic entity.
Chemotherapy appears to be of identical efficacy if given
at the time of recurrence rather than upfront. The common
practice of treating pure oligodendroglioma initially with
chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, which has replaced
the more toxic PCV regimen despite the absence of comparative clinical data, is not supported by available evidence (21,22). In particular for smaller tumors, a short course
of six weeks of radiotherapy may be the easier and safer
treatment than 6 to 12 months of potentially toxic chemotherapy. Alkylating agent chemotherapy may also be
associated with clinically relevant long-term toxicity, e.g.,
myelodysplastic syndromes, secondary leukemias, and
prolonged cellular immunosuppression with opportunistic
infections. Patients with recurrent oligodendroglioma and
oligoastrocytoma respond well to subsequent chemotherapy
with PCV or TMZ.

Low-Grade Glioma (Diffuse Astrocytoma; WHO Grade 2)
Diffuse astrocytomas account for 10% to 15% of all gliomas
and have an incidence rate of about 1.4/1 million population
a year. Low-grade gliomas occur typically in adolescent
children and young adults and are less common after the
age of 40 years. The incidence rate decreases progressively
from childhood into late adult life. Many patients present
with seizures as single neurological manifestation. Often
the disease is recognized fortuitously and may not require
any specific treatment for many years. Similarly, the disease may have been present for a long time when it is first
diagnosed. Mutations in p53 are found in two-thirds of
patients affected by low-grade diffuse astrocytomas (WHO
grade 2) (23).
The prognosis of low-grade gliomas is dependent on
the tendency of these tumors to transform into more aggressive tumors in more than 60% of patients (18). The median
survival for adults under treatment is in the range four to
seven years, although some series report survival rates
more than 10 years. Young age at diagnosis, MIB-1 index
<5%, absence of neurological deficit and smaller size of
lesion are associated with a more favorable clinical outcome
(24). Gross total resection is also significantly correlated
with longer survival. There are no validated prognostic
factors that can predict malignant transformation.
The MR imaging typically shows a nonenhancing
ill-defined hypointense lesion on T1-weighted images and
a sharply demarcated hyperintense lesion with no or only
minimal surrounding edema on T2-weighed images. The
histopathology shows well-differentiated fibrillary or gemistocystic neoplastic astrocytes on the background of a
loosely structured tumor matrix.

Treatment
Patients who present with seizures only and have typical
radiographic features of a low-grade astrocytic glioma are
often observed for a period of time with serial imaging
before any surgical intervention is undertaken as long as
the seizure disease can be controlled. Tissue is however
required for a definitive diagnosis. This is preferably coupled with maximal surgical resection when feasible. For
less accessible lesions, open or stereotactic biopsies are
performed, aiming at the most aggressive part of the lesion,
e.g., contrast enhancement if present. Patients with clinical
progressive disease, such as uncontrolled seizure or patients
with several risk factors for early tumor progression
(incomplete resection, contrast enhancement or age >40,
tumor ≥6 cm or tumors crossing the midline) (24) should
be treated with RT up to 50 Gy. Higher doses have not
shown any additional advantage, but an increase in toxicity in two randomized studies (25,26). Optimal timing of
radiotherapy is commonly source for controversy. A randomized EORTC study (#22845) demonstrated equivalent
survival outcome with an expectative and conservative
approach compared with immediate irradation. Thus, RT
should preferably be given only at the time of clear clinical
and radiological progression. This strategy allows to delay
RT for an average of two to three years, and for more than
seven years in one-third of the patients (27). The EORTC
and NCIC are conducting a phase III trial to compare
standard RT alone versus low-dose TMZ (75 mg/m2/day
for 21/28 days) as first-line treatment at tumor progression.
The aim is to improve the overall outcome and to delay
RT with potentially detrimental late neurocognitive toxicity
in patients with a life expectancy of 5 to 15 and more years.
In addition, tumor material is collected upfront and patients
stratified for chromosomal loss on chromosome 1p/19q.
This may allow to subsequently identifying patients with
worse prognosis requiring more aggressive treatment and
reassuring patient with true low-grade glioma that no
active measure is needed.

Pilocytic Astrocytoma (WHO Grade 1)
Pilocytic astrocytomas (PA) account for less than 5% of all
gliomas. These are typically pediatric brain tumors and
more than 75% occur in patients younger than 20 years.
These tumors are typically indolent and induce few neurological symptoms except for visual loss in case of optic
gliomas. Pilocytic astrocytomas arise most commonly in
the cerebellum, optic nerve or optic chiasm and more
rarely in the basal ganglia and brainstem. Approximately
15% of optic nerve pilocytic astrocytomas are associated
with neurofibromatosis. Supratentorial pilocytic astrocytomas have been associated with 80% to 100% 10-year
survival rates following surgery. For cerebellar tumors,
95% disease-free survival at 25 years has been reported.
A complete resection is considered curative. Brainstem involvement is a negative prognostic factor. Leptomeningeal dissemination has been reported, with poor
outcome. On MRI, these are well-circumscribed and contrast enhancing lesions, possibly with cystic formations.
Only a minority are calcified. Gadolinium-uptake is common. Surprisingly, these tumors often show increased
metabolic activity on PET scan, despite their low grade of
proliferation. Histopathologic examination characteristically

Chapter 16:

Management of Gliomas, Medulloblastoma, CNS Germ Cell Tumors, and Carcinomas Metastatic to the CNS

shows well-differentiated astrocytes, rosenthal fibers, bundles of neurofibrils, and microcysts. In these tumors, nuclear
atypia and mitoses do not denote malignancy although
rare pilocytic astrocytomas exhibit clinically malignant
behavior.

Treatment
As pilocytic astrocytomas have well defined borders, surgical resection may be curative. Even after partial removal,
symptoms improve in many patients and prolonged remissions may be observed. Therefore, if most of the tumor can
be removed surgically, no further therapy should be instituted until there is clear evidence of progression. Management of pilocytic astrocytomas of the optic pathways
remains controversial. Most resectable lesions should be
excised, especially if vision is threatened. In case of recurrence, re-resection should be reconsidered. Unresectable or
residual recurrent disease may be managed by radiation
therapy with satisfactory control (28).

Brainstem Glioma
Gliomas arising in the brainstem comprise a heterogeneous
set of neoplasms that may arise in the midbrain, pons,
medulla, and upper cervical spine (29). Brainstem gliomas
occur at any age, although 75% occur in children and
adults younger than 20 years. In adults, brainstem gliomas
are rare. Diffuse pontine astrocytomas represent about 80%
of brainstem tumors. Histologically, these tumors are highgrade gliomas and have a uniformly poor prognosis (30).
Focal brainstem gliomas typically arise in the midbrain
or cervicomedullary junction. These tumors are most
often low-grade tumors such as gangliogliomas, pilocytic,
or fibrillary astrocytomas (30). Clinical symptoms usually
start with cranial nerve palsies, especially diplopia that
subsequently evolves to cause long tract signs. Hydrocephalus is uncommon. A number of factors have been found
to be of prognostic importance for children with diffuse
intrinsic brainstem gliomas. In general, patients with longer
clinical history prior to time of diagnosis and those with
more focal lesions, especially if localized in the midbrain
and cervicomedullary junction tend to fare best. In practice,
biopsy was performed for diffusely infiltrating brainstem
gliomas that present with classic neuroimaging, given the
high risk of significant disability should complications
occur. Histology of brainstem gliomas spans the complete
spectrum of differentiation from low-grade invasive astrocytoma to glioblastoma as seen in other parts of the brain.
Neuroimaging, especially MRI and MR spectroscopy, often
permits the differentiation of low-grade brainstem gliomas
from high-grade lesions.

291

pilocytic astrocytomas or gangliogliomas with a better
overall prognosis.
If surgically inaccessible, RT to a dose of 54 Gy in daily
fractions of 1.8 Gy by external beam radiation to the lesion
with a 0.5 to 1 cm margin is the treatment of choice in adults
and children above 10 years (32). For children younger than
10 years with unresectable lesions, administration of chemotherapy may allow to delay RT. However, only few prospective clinical data are available for the use of chemotherapy
in brainstem gliomas. The clinical practice has therefore been
influenced by the management of supratentorial gliomas. In
children with low-grade brainstem gliomas, weekly carboplatin/vincristine shows response rates of 40% (33) and
two- and three-year survival rates of 75% and 68%, respectively. This regimen was compared with a TPCV regimen
(6-thioguanine, procarbazine, lomustine, and vincristine)
with similar results. Temozolomide is often used for the
treatment of high-grade tumors in analogy to the positive
results observed in supratentorial GBM.

Gliomatosis Cerebri (GC)
This diffuse glioma consists of exceptionally extensive infiltration of large areas of the CNS, with the involvement of
at least three cerebral lobes. It usually displays an astrocytic phenotype, although oligodendroglioma and mixed
oligoastrocytoma can also occur. The overall biologic
behavior often corresponds to WHO grade 3, but a more
indolent course may be observed in a sizable fraction of
patients. All age groups and both genders may be affected
with a peak incidence between 40 and 50 years. Presenting
signs and symptoms vary considerably depending on the
affected parts of the brain. The MRI typically shows diffuse
enlargement of the involved cerebral structures without
evidence of tissue destruction or focal tumor mass, which
is best seen on T2 or FLAIR sequences. Classic histologic
features include proliferation of small glial cells. The
mitotic activity is typically low, however, with great variability. Necrosis and microvascular proliferation are generally absent in the classical variant. Like other gliomas,
prognostic markers for better outcome include higher
performance status, younger age, lower WHO grade, and
histologic subtype.

Treatment
Radiation therapy usually involves large irradiation fields
and may be associated with considerable toxicity and cognitive impairment. Therefore, chemotherapy (e.g., TMZ or
PCV) is often considered as an alternative. Sanson reported
a progression-free survival of 16 months in 63 patients and
an overall survival of 29 months (34).

Treatment

Ependymoma

The recognition of different subgroups of biologically distinct brainstem gliomas has allowed tailoring treatment.
For instance, diffuse intrinsic gliomas that are highly infiltrative are not amenable to resection and should be treated
with RT. On the other end of the spectrum, tectal gliomas
show a prolonged natural history and may not require any
specific therapy. Focal tumors of the cervicomedullary
junction and dorsal exophytic gliomas may be resected
safely (31). These exophytic tumors are more likely to be

Ependymomas account for less than 10% of CNS and 25%
of spinal cord tumors occurring frequently in children and
occasionally in adults. In children, the localization is mostly
infratentorial, whereas in adults the majority of ependymomas arise in the subependymal space of the third ventricle.
Diffuse cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) dissemination is common.
Circulating tumor cells may obstruct CSF flow, leading to an
increased intracranial pressure with headache, drowsiness,
seizure, and focal neurological deficits or mimic brainstem

292

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

lesions with deficits of multiple cranial nerves or of the
cerebellum. On MRI, ependymomas often show a lesion
that is hypointense on T1 and hyperintense on T2. Contrast
enhancement is usually marked. Calcifications may be
observed. All patients diagnosed with an ependymoma
should have MRI imaging of the entire craniospinal
neuraxis to exclude metastatic disease. CSF cytology performed two to three weeks after surgery is important in
patients with posterior fossa lesions and those with highgrade anaplastic tumors as CSF dissemination affects both
prognosis and treatment options. On histology, the
ependymomas span a histologic appearance from lowgrade differentiated lesions [myxopapillary ependymoma
(WHO grade 1) or ependymoma (WHO grade 2)] to anaplastic (grade 3). Rarer subtypes include cellular, papillary
tanacytic, epitheloid, and giant cell variants (18).

Treatment
The primary therapy is surgical resection, which can be
curative if complete. Therefore, if postoperative imaging
reveals residual disease, second-look surgery must be considered. For malignant (grade 3) tumors, or those with
incomplete resection or recurrence, radiotherapy may be
indicated. The role of chemotherapy in the management of
ependymomas remains unclear. Minor activity was reported
for a number of agents including cisplatin and etoposide,
either alone or in combination (35,36). In children younger
than three years, chemotherapy has been applied to try to
delay RT. Adjuvant chemotherapy is not indicated outside
clinical trials.
If the disease recurs, prognosis is grim and most
patients will die within months of the relapse. A number
of approaches may be offered including aggressive surgical
re-resection, radiosurgery, re-irradiation, or palliative chemotherapy. High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue
has not demonstrated benefit in children with recurrent
disease (37). The outcome is closely associated with the
extent of surgical resection. Unlike most glial tumors, the
prognosis of ependymomas is worse in children than in
adults. This is probably related to the fact that posterior
fossa ependymomas, which are more common in children,
are less amenable to complete resection and are more often
related to severe neurological disability. The overall prognosis of intracranial ependymomas, however, remains better than for other gliomas, with 5- and 10-year survival
rates of about 80% and 50%, respectively (38).

Germ Cell Tumors
Germ cell tumors (GCTs) comprise a heterogeneous group
of primary brain tumors occurring mainly in children and
adolescents. They arise from pluripotent germinal cells and
have an identical appearance and biological behavior to
GCTs localized in the testes or ovaries. About half of the
GCT are germinomas and can be commonly cured. The
other half consists of nongerminomatous germ cell tumors
(NGGCT: teratomas 20%, mixed tumors 20%, embryonal
carcinoma, yolk salk tumors, and choriocarcinoma 10%) for
which the prognosis is less favorable. GCTs are rare in
Caucasians, representing about 0.5% to 3.4% of all primary
intracranial neoplasms, but more common in Asians (2.1–
9.4%). Males are two to four times more likely to develop

a germ cell tumor. Suprasellar tumors develop more frequently in females. All GCTs, with the exception of mature
teratomas, are highly malignant but exquisitely responsive
to chemo- and radiotherapy. Leptomeningeal spread occurs
in 10% to 15% of cases. Many GCT secrete specific proteins
that can be measured in the serum and CSF and may be
useful for diagnosis and treatment surveillance. The different markers for each tumor type are summarized in
Table 16.3.
Germinomas are composed of large round cells with
vesicular nuclei, granular eosinophilic cytoplasm, and positive stain for placental alkaline phosphatase. NGGCTs
commonly exhibit mixed histological features. Cytoplasmic
and extracellular droplets that stain for alpha fetoprotein
are diagnostic for yolk sac tumors. Choriocarcinomas are
composed of bilaminar trophoblastic cells with high levels
of beta-HCG and are prone to spontaneous hemorrhage.
Mature teratomas are composed of fully differentiated
tissues and are benign locally expansive neoplasms. Immature teratomas may have elements of sarcoma, carcinoma,
or other nongerminatous germ cell tumors with a malignant
behavior. Cytogenetic analysis often show the presence of
an isochrome of the short arm of chromosome 12 [i(12p)].
This abnormality may be useful in the diagnosis of poorly
differentiated neoplasms located in the midline.
Patients with pineal region tumors often present with
features of obstructive hydrocephalus. Compression of the
superior colliculus causes Parinaud’s syndrome with lightnear dissociation of pupillary response, limited upgaze,
and convergence-retraction nystagmus. Compression of
the superior cerebellar peduncle may result in ataxia or
dysmetria. Because of the tumor location, endocrine dysfunction including growth failure, diabetes insipidus, and
precocious puberty and visual abnormalities are frequent
in sellar or suprasellar tumors.
On imaging, germinomas tend to be homogeneous
and iso-intense to white matter on T1-weighted images and
slightly hyperintense on T2 images. Teratomas and NGGCTs
tend to infiltrate surrounding normal brain parenchyma.
Areas of previous hemorrhages are typical of choriocarcinoma. In cases of a suspected germ cell tumor, imaging
should include the brain and the complete spine. The CSF
should be analyzed for cytology and tumor markers (alphafetoprotein, beta-HCG). This should be done ideally before
surgical resection, or after an interval of at least two to
four weeks after surgery due to potential contamination
during the intervention. The gold standard for the diagnosis of GCT is histopathology, which mandates a surgical
biopsy that must be sufficiently large to ensure adequate
sampling, which is especially important in NGGCTs (39).
Prognosis and treatment are determined by the most malignant histology within a tumor. In situations where elevated
CSF markers clearly indicate the presence of a malignant
GCT, a biopsy may not be indispensable (Table 16.3).

Treatment
The treatment modalities differ for pure germinomas, teratomas, and NGGCTs. Radical resection is warranted for
mature teratoma, whereas surgery is not needed for pure
germinomas.
Radiotherapy remains the treatment of choice for
patients with pure germinoma and long-term survival

Chapter 16:

Table 16.3

Management of Gliomas, Medulloblastoma, CNS Germ Cell Tumors, and Carcinomas Metastatic to the CNS

293

Germ Cell Tumor Markers
Alpha foetoprotein

Beta-human chorionic
gonadotropin

Placental alkaline
phospatase

Typical CSF findings

Germinomas

−

±

+

bHCG (slight elevation
<50 mIU/ml)

NGGCT
Teratoma
• mature
• immature
Yolk sac tumors
Embryonal carcinoma
Choriocarcinoma

±
+
−
−

−
−
−
−
+

−
+
±
+
±

rates are more than 90% (40). The optimal dose and field
of treatment remain controversial, total tumor doses of 45
to 50 Gy to the tumor are usual, with 20 Gy delivered to
the lateral third and fourth ventricles, and an additional
30 Gy to the tumor bed in 1.8 Gy fractions. Depending on
the clinical situation, the radiation field must include the
ventricular system, the whole brain, or even the entire
craniopsinal axis, given the tendency of these tumors to
spread via the CSF. Given the high rate of neuroendocrine
and cognitive sequelae as well as the risk of secondary
malignancies of radiation therapy, systemic chemotherapy
has been used in an attempt to reduce or delay the RT.
Unfortunately, despite high response rates, chemotherapy
alone is associated with high relapse rates. Greater success
has been achieved using chemotherapy followed by RT
(Table 16.4).
NGGCTs have a much worse prognosis than germinomas. They are primarily treated by chemotherapy, followed by focal RT for localized disease, and craniospinal
RT for disseminated tumors. Short of prospective clinical
trials for the rare CNS germ cell tumors, patients are commonly treated with the same regimens used for gonadal
tumors. Platinum-based regimens are also the backbone for
CNS tumors, but the observed cure rates of only 50% are
inferior to testicular tumors (Table 16.4). In an international
study, 71 mainly pediatric patients with intracranial GCT
(26 with NGGCT) were treated with four 21-day cycles of
carboplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin. Patients with a
complete response were thereafter treated with two more
cycles of the same therapy, whereas patients with incomplete responses received two additional cycles intensified
with 65 mg/kg cyclophosphamide. Patients with NGGCT
showed a response rate of 78%, with a two-year survival
rate of 62%. Of the patients who progressed or recurred,
half were successfully salvaged with RT or additional chemotherapy (41). Unfortunately, close to 10% of patients
died of toxicity associated with the chemotherapy.
Patient with germinoma or NGGCT who recur or
progress following primary treatment may be treated with
chemotherapy and/or RT. Objective responses have been
observed following a number of regimens including bleomycin/etoposide/cisplatin (BEP) or cisplatin/vinblastin/
bleomycin (BVP) (42,43). Unfortunately, although responses
may be observed even in patients previously treated with
chemotherapy, they are usually short lived. Several groups
have evaluated high dose chemotherapy with autologous

aFP
bHCG

stem cell rescue. Available data remain however scanty,
and the value of high-dose consolidation remains unclear.
RT may be most effective as part of a combined modality
treatment (44).

Medulloblastoma
Medulloblastomas are the most common intracranial
tumors of childhood, typically arising in the posterior fossa,
and accounting for about 25% of childhood brain tumors.
The incidence is about 0.5/100,000 children/year, peaking
at age 7. In adults, medulloblastoma or the related primary
neuro-ectodermal tumors (PNETs) are often found in the
vermis or cerebellar hemisphere. Patients typically present
with ataxia, dysmetria, or nystagmus and signs of increased
intracranial pressure, including vomiting, headache, and
possibly papilledema. If the tumor extends and compresses
the brainstem, cranial nerve palsies, particularly of the VI
and VII nerves may occur. Leptomeningeal dissemination
may occur early in the disease course and cause widespread symptoms, including seizures, cranial nerve palsies,
back pain as well as radicular sensory or motor deficits.
Histological variants of medulloblastomas—including classic
desmoplastic tumor, medullomyoblastoma, melanotic medulloblastoma, and cerebellar neuroblastoma—have currently
no importance for the clinical management and outcome.
The typical medulloblastoma shows densely packed cells
with round or oval hyperchromatic nuclei and scant cytoplasm. MIB-1 is often higher than 20%. In children, a lesion
localized in the vermis that is hyperdense on CT scan and
hypointense on T1 and hyperintense on T2 with homogeneous and intense contrast uptake is highly suspicious of
medulloblastoma. Hydrocephalus is a common finding. In
adults, the tumor is usually localized in the cerebellar
hemisphere. Hydrocephalus is uncommon, but a cyst may
be evidenced. Enhancement is variable in adults. All patients
with a medulloblastoma should be evaluated for metastatic
disease with MRI of the entire craniospinal axis with contrast. The CSF should also be examined for the presence of
malignant cells. Because of the risk of herniation, this procedure should however be reserved for two to three weeks
after surgical removal of the tumor. Of note, CSF sampling through a shunt is inadequate, as the result may turn
out negative despite the fact that lumbar CSF is clearly
positive for malignant cells. Staging for medulloblastoma
is summarized on Table 16.5 (45).

294

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 16.4

Chemotherapy for Germ Cell Tumors

Treatment regimen
Germinomas
Intracranial germinoma
2× Carboplatin (600 mg/m2 i.v. day 1), etoposide (150 mg/m2
i.v. days 1–3), ifosfamide (1.8 g/m2 i.v. days 1–4) followed
by RT 40 Gy
Intracranial germinoma
4× alternating etoposide/carboplatin
and etoposide/ifosfamide followed by 40Gy RT with CSI
reserved for leptomeningeal dissemination
Intracranial germinoma
2× Cisplatin (105 mg/m2 i.v. day 1), Etoposide (150 mg/m2
i.v. days 1–3), Cyclophosphamide
(2 g/m2 i.v. days 2–3), Bleomycin (15 mg/m2 i.v. day 3)
followed, if CR by 2× Carboplatin (AUC = 7, i.v. day 1–2),
Etoposide (150 mg/m2 i.v. days 1–3), Bleomycin
(15 mg/m2 i.v. day 3)
CNS GCT
Cisplatin (20 mg/m2 i.v. days 1–5)/etoposide
100 mg/m2 i.v. days 1–5) every 21 days followed by RT
Non germinomatous GCT
4 cycles carboplatin/etoposide/bleomycin every 21 day,
then if CR → 2 more cycles
if less than CR → 2× cycles + cyclophosphamide (65 mg/kg)
salvage with RT at time of POD
6 cycles vinblastine/bleomycin/ carboplatin or etoposide/
carboplatin alternating with ifosfamide/etoposide
2 cycles cisplatin/etoposide/cyclophosphamide/ bleomycin
(A), then 2× carboplatin, etoposide/bleomycin (B)
then if CR: 1× A followed by 1× B
if less than CR: second look surgery or RT

Number of patients Responses

References

29

Event-free rate at 32 months: 93%
Overall survival at 32 months: 100%

Baranzelli et al. (80)

57

3-year event-free survival: 96%
3-year overall survival: 98%

Bouffet et al. (81)

19

Event-free survival at 5 years: 47%
Overall survival at 5 years: 68%

Kellie et al. (82)

17

No recurrences at 51 months

Buckner et al. (83)

71 (26 with non
germinomatous
GCT)

Complete response rate: 78%
50% pts recurrence-free at
31 months

Balmaceda et al.
(41)

18

12 patients alive after 68 months, all Baranzelli et al. (44)
but one with RT because of POD
70% alive and free of disease at 6.3 Kellie et al. (84)
years, (30% received RT because
of POD)

20

Treatment
Based on clinical staging criteria, the standard treatment for
medulloblastoma has been surgery followed by craniospinal radiotherapy, resulting in five-year survival rates of 50%
to 60%. The treatment is determined in part by the preoperative staging (see above and Table 16.5) and by the completeness of the surgical resection of the tumor: if there is
a single tumor focus, complete resection should be aimed
for. In case of widespread dissemination, a debulking operation to a residual volume of less than 1.5 cm is the preferred
choice. Following surgery, patients are categorized either
into average risk (age >3 and ≤21, absence of residual or
residual tumor ≤1.5 cm, no evidence of metastatic disease
in the neuraxis (negative MRI and CSF cytology done two
to three weeks after surgery) or high-risk category (residual
tumor >1.5 cm or staged as M1-M4) (Table 16.5).
All patients require whole neuroaxial radiation. RT
at a dose of at least 55 Gy to the tumor has been shown
to extend survival and may result in cures. In addition, it
is recommended that high-risk patients receive 35 Gy to the
entire brain and spinal cord, whereas 23.4 Gy may be sufficient for average risk patients. Despite this, almost 50%
of patients die of early tumor recurrence. Moreover, many
survivors develop significant neurocognitive impairment,
growth delay, early puberty, and compromised spinal
growth.
Medulloblastoma are also relatively chemosensitive. A
variety of drugs have shown activity, in this type of tumor,
including methotrexate, high-dose cyclophosphamide, and
platinum derivates (46–48). A number of combination

chemotherapies have been used with positive responses
but little effect on survival. To date, none has been proven
to be superior to a combination of weekly vincristine for
eight weeks (starting during RT), followed by eight cycles
of Lomustine and cisplatin every six weeks (beginning six
weeks after RT) (49). To date, the adjunction of adjuvant
chemotherapy for average risk patients has not improved
survival. Many pediatric neurooncologists treat all patients
with adjuvant therapy, given the 40% relapse rate at five
years, the sensitivity of medulloblastoma to chemotherapeutic agents and the opportunity to reduce the dose of
neuraxis RT. Although this regimen is well tolerated by
children, this is not the case for adults. In adults, treatment
is often based on an individual recurrence risk assessment.
Standard risk patients (T1-3a, M0, and no residual disease
after surgery, negative CSF cytology) are usually treated
with 36 Gy craniospinal RT, supplemented by a boost of
18.8 Gy to the tumor bed. High-risk patients (T3b-4, any
M+, or postoperative residual tumor) receive three to six
cycles of a platinum-based chemotherapy regimen (e.g.,
cyclophosphamide, etoposide, and cisplatin) followed by
craniospinal RT (50). Maintenance therapy is given if M+
disease is present. Long-term follow-up of the patients
included in the study confirmed the better prognosis for
patients with standard risk disease with five-year survival
rates of 76% versus 61%, respectively. Since the inclusion
of adjuvant chemotherapy in the management of high-risk
disease, the prognosis has substantially improved (51).
These results are similar to those observed in pediatric
patients. Late recurrences even after 5 or 10 years have

Chapter 16:

Table 16.5

Management of Gliomas, Medulloblastoma, CNS Germ Cell Tumors, and Carcinomas Metastatic to the CNS

Staging of Medulloblastoma

Staging
T1
T2
T3a
T3b
T4

M0
M1
M2
M3
M4

Tumor <3 cm in diameter
Tumor ≥3 cm in diameter
Tumor >3 cm in diameter with extension into aqueduct of
sylvius and/or into foramen of luschka
Tumor >3 cm in diameter with unequivocal extension into
the brainstem
Tumor >3 cm in diameter with extension up past the
aqueduct of sylvius and/or down past the foramen
magnum
No evidence of subarachnoid cells found in CSF
Microscopic tumor cells found in CSF
Gross nodular seeding in the cerebellar, cerebral
subarachnoid space, or the third or lateral ventricles
Gross nodular seeding in the spinal subarachnoid space
Metastasis outside the cerebrospinal axis
Residual tumor >1.5 cm postoperatively
(considered high risk)

been observed, highlighting the importance of careful follow-up. The late toxicities of therapy must be taken into
account and treatment involves a balance between maximizing cures and limiting long-term sequelae of treatment.

CNS METASTASES
Metastases to the central nervous system are often discussed
as a separate disease entity. However, except for some
particularities of the secondary localization in the brain,
this is more a symptom and manifestation of the primary
disease than a disease entity on its own. Unfortunately,
most clinical trials aiming at optimizing treatment of brain
metastases included many different tumor types, making
the interpretation difficult and often not allowing definitive
conclusions. In the following paragraphs, we will address
some of the particularities of the management of central
nervous metastases based on the limited evidence available. For specific information, the reader should refer to
the respective chapters describing the underlying primary
tumors in this textbook.

Brain Metastases
Brain metastases are detected in up to 40% of all cancer
patients over the course of their disease (52). Brain metastases at initial diagnosis are more frequent in advanced
stages of lung cancer and melanoma. In breast cancer, brain
metastases are observed more frequently since survival has
been prolonged with improved systemic treatments. For
many agents and notably treatment with monoclonal antibodies (trastuzumab) the brain represents a sanctuary
where these treatments do not adequately reach the target.
Symptoms depend on disease localization in the
brain, exacerbated by the associated vasogenic edema.
Seizures may occur in 10% to 20% of cases and up to 50%
of patients with melanoma will develop seizures (53).
Headache is an unspecific but common symptom. From a

295

practical point, any new neurological symptom or cognitive difficulties should warrant an active search for brain
metastases in patients with known cancer.
Management and prognosis will be different in
patients with a single or oligometastases compared with
that in patients with diffusely disseminated disease, and
thus adequate imaging is indispensable. MRI with contrast
is the modality of choice as smaller asymptomatic metastases may go unrecognized on computer assisted tomography (CT). On imaging, metastases are usually round
and homogeneously contrast-enhancing lesions. They may
rarely be cystic or calcified. Intralesional hemorrhages are
more common in melanoma, kidney cancer, and choriocarcinoma. Major, although unspecific arguments for the
presence of brain metastases are the multiplicity of lesions,
the localization at the gray-white matter junction, the sharp
edge and the mismatch between a small lesion, and significant associated edema. These signs are however not
specific and up to 10% of radiological diagnoses may be
erroneous (52). If brain metastases are evidenced in a patient
with a previously known cancer, there is usually no indication for further extensive workup or histological confirmation. To make adequate treatment decisions, the extent
of the primary tumor has to be determined. In patients
without known cancer, the workup should include a
careful history and physical examination, e.g., removal of
presumably benign naevi, in woman a breast examination,
a chest X-ray and/or a CT scan of chest and upper abdomen. If the primary tumor cannot be easily detected, histological assessment of the CNS lesion may be most
appropriate.
The aim of the treatment is to maintain the neurological functions of the patient to insure the best quality of
life possible. Symptomatic treatments aim at the management
of neurological dysfunctions and include steroids and
antiepileptic medications. Antitumoral treatments include
surgery, radiation therapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, and
chemotherapy.

Surgery and Radiotherapy for Brain Metastases
Whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT) increases the overall
survival two- to three-fold compared with best supportive
care alone, but survival rarely exceeds six to nine months.
Several prospective trials assessing the radiation dose or
schedule have not shown an advantage of dose escalation
or altered fractionation (54–56). Three prospective randomized trials have addressed whether the addition of surgery
to WBRT will improve patient outcome. In two studies,
median overall survival was improved when patients were
treated with surgical resection of a single brain metastasis
followed by whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) compared
with WBRT alone (median survival 9–10 months vs.
3–4 months) (57,58). The third study did not show a survival benefit for the surgical arm, which may be explained
by a high proportion of patients with low performance
status and active extra-cranial disease included in the study
(59) and highlights the importance of adequate patient
selection.
As an alternative to surgical resection, radiosurgery
is frequently considered for smaller tumors. The addition
of radiosurgery to WBRT has been addressed by the RTOG
9508 study. More than 330 patients (64% lung cancer) with

296

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Figure 16.4 Radiological appearance of brain metastases on MRI
(gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted MR image).

radiosurgery ± WBRT. The primary endpoint was overall
survival, which was not different between the two arms
[one-year OS 38.5% and 28.4% in the combined modality
and radiosurgery only arm (p = 0.42), respectively]. The
one-year brain recurrence rate was however significantly
increased in the radiosurgery only arm from 46.8% to
76.4% (p < 0.01). The rate of death due to neurological
progression was identical (22.8% and 19.3% in the combined modality and radiosurgery only arm, respectively),
while neurocognitive deterioration as measured with a minimental status exam, a questionable proxi in this situation,
was delayed and attenuated with WBRT (63).
Two ongoing randomized trials address the outcome
of patients treated with radiosurgery alone. More than
350 patients have been accrued in the EORTC 2295226001 study comparing surgery or radiosurgery ± WBRT.
Primary endpoint of this study is time to deterioration of
the WHO performance status, with overall survival as a
secondary endpoint. Preliminary results are presented at
the ASCO annual meeting 2009. The North Central Cancer
Treatment Study N0574 has already accrued over 100 of the
164 patients planned. The primary endpoint is the neurocognitive function tested by several neurocognitive tests.

Chemotherapy

one to three brain metastases were randomized to either
WBRT alone or WBRT and radiosurgery (60). No difference
in survival was observed for the entire cohort (median 6.5
vs. 5.7 months, p = 0.1356). However, a survival benefit was
observed with the addition of radiosurgery for the subgroup of patients with a single metastasis (median survival
4.9 vs. 6.5 months; p = 0.04). Local control was significantly
(p = 0.013) improved in the combined modality arm translating into a stable or improved performance status for a
longer time. In a multivariate analysis, the recursive partioning analysis (RPA) class I tumors (patients with a controlled primary disease or brain only disease) was the only
significant prognostic factor, independent of the number of
brain metastases.
The role of surgery and/or radiosurgery in addition
to WBRT has been investigated in a number of recent trials, and it is possible that WBRT is dispensable or can be
postponed after surgery or radiosurgery, thereby avoiding
potential acute and late toxicity. In one small multicenter
trial, 95 patients were randomized to receive or not WBRT
after complete resection of a single isolated brain metastasis. The recurrence rate in the brain was significantly
reduced in the group receiving WBRT from 70% to 18%
(p < 0.01). Although the overall survival was not significantly different, surgical patients were more likely to die
because of neurological causes than patients treated with
adjuvant WBRT (44% vs. 14%; p = 0.03) (61). In another
underpowered trial, published in abstract form only, less
than 100 patients were randomized to radiosurgery alone
versus radiosurgery and WBRT versus WBRT alone. The
observed OS was not significantly different in the three
arms. In a recently published Japanese trial (62), 132 patients
with one to four brain metastases were randomized to

Overall, the results of chemotherapy in the management
of brain metastases remain disappointing, even though
there have been reports of excellent responses in a number of chemosensitive cancers such as breast (cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, 5-FU based chemotherapies),
small cell lung cancer (SCLC), or germ cell tumors (cisplatin based chemotherapies) (64–66). Although chemotherapy is not usually chosen as the initial treatment
modality for brain metastases, there are some situations
where starting treatment with chemotherapy may be
appropriate. Studies of SCLC have shown that patients
with synchronous presentation of systemic and CNS disease will have similar response rates in the brain and
solid organs to initial chemotherapy regimens (66). It
may be appropriate to initiate the best systemic therapy
in a patient with symptomatic systemic disease and
asymptomatic brain metastases.
Chemotherapy administered in conjunction with RT
may have additive, synergistic, or radiosensitizing effects.
The association of temozolomide with radiation has been
shown to be well tolerated (67–69). Further studies are
needed to confirm that this treatment may improve
response rates and survival. Other radiosensitizers, such
as modexafin gadolinium or efaproxiral, have failed to
demonstrate an improved outcome in initial randomized
trials of an unselected patient population with brain
metastases (70).

Carcinomatous Meningitis
About 5% to 10% of patients with systemic cancer will
eventually develop leptomeningeal carcinomatosis. It portends a dismal prognosis with median survival of about
4 to 16 weeks from time of diagnosis. Melanoma, breast
and lung cancer, and hematologic and lymphoid malignancies are the most common origin of leptomeningeal

Chapter 16:

Management of Gliomas, Medulloblastoma, CNS Germ Cell Tumors, and Carcinomas Metastatic to the CNS

297

Diagnosis of LC (MRI or cytology)
Good risk patient

Poor risk patient

Limited disease / high KPS /
chemosensitive tumor /
minimal neurologic
dysfunction / controlled
systemic disease /
reasonable systemic
treatment options available
if needed

Advanced disease
low KPS /
chemoresistant
tumor / severe
neurologic
impairment / bulky
CNS disease

Consider CSF flow scan
Abnormal
flow

Normal flow

RT to site of
involvement

IT chemotherapy

Supportive care
Consider RT to
symptomatic bulky
areas

Repeat CSF
flow scan
Abnormal

Normal

See poor risk
patients

IT chemotherapy

Figure 16.5 Suggested workflow for the management of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis. Abbreviations: CNS, central nervous system;
CSF, cerebrospinal fluid; IT, intrathecal; KPS, Karnofsky performance scale; LC, leptomeningeal carcinomatosis; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging;
RT, radiotherapy.

dissemination. Clinical signs of of meningeal irritation
include headache, neck discomfort, nausea ± vomiting,
and visual disturbances. Patients also commonly develop
multiple cranial neuropathies and/or radicular neuropathies. The MRI of brain or spine can show leptomeningeal enhancement, typically in the form of linear cortical
gyral enhancement following contrast administration. The
cerebellar folia can also show similar patterns of enhancement. Neoplastic meningitis may also appear as bulky,
nodular disease. In cases where the MRI is not diagnostic,
lumbar puncture may provide cytologic evidence of the
CSF dissemination of the cancer.
Untreated, carcinomatous meningitis of solid tumors
will lead to death within a few weeks. Therapeutic options
include RT, intrathecal or intraventricular chemotherapy,
and high-dose systemic chemotherapy, provided the systemic disease is controlled and the patient has an adequate
performance status. Randomized studies are not available
to guide treatment. Figure 16.5 summarizes a practical
approach. The type of primary malignancy, extent and
control of systemic disease, performance status, neurological

impairment, age of patient, history of prior CNS-directed
therapy, and the presence or absence of abnormal CSF flow
must be considered in the choice of therapy.
Intraventricular administration of methotrexate, cytarabine (Ara-c), and thiothepa have been reported (71–73).
Response rates depend largely upon the type of primary
tumor. Leptomeningeal carcinomatosis from breast cancer
has shown the best results with response rates of up to 50%
(71). In lung, digestive tract, or urogenital tract cancers,
response rates of up to 30% have been reported. Unfortunately, recurrence is the rule, and in general survival
remains poor. For instance in one study, 31 patients with
carcinomatous meningitis showed median survival of
105 days with treatment of intrathecal slow release Ara-C,
compared with 78 days for the 30 patients randomized to
standard intrathecal methotrexate (p = 0.15) (72). In selected
cases, oral temozolomide or high-dose IV methotrexate
treatment may be considered, even though the evidence
consists mostly of case reports (74–77). Radiotherapy is
generally combined with intrathecal chemotherapy and is
administered to symptomatic, bulky, or obstructive sites.

298

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

REFERENCES
1. Klaeboe L, Lonn S, Scheie D et al. Incidence of intracranial
meningiomas in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden,
1968–1997. Int J Cancer 2005; 117: 996–1001.
2. Behin A, Hoang-Xuan K, Carpentier AF et al. Primary brain
tumours in adults. Lancet 2003; 361: 323–31.
3. DeAngelis LM. Brain tumors. N Engl J Med 2001; 344:
114–23.
4. Stupp R, Mason WP, van den Bent MJ et al. Radiotherapy
plus concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide for glioblastoma.
N Engl J Med 2005; 352: 987–96.
5. Stupp R, Hegi ME, Mason WP et al. Effects of radiotherapy
with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide versus radiotherapy alone on survival in glioblastoma in a randomized
phase III study: 5 year analysis of the EORTC-NCIC trial.
Lancet Oncol 2009 (epub ahead of print Mar 6).
6. Mirimanoff RO, Gorlia T, Mason W et al. Radiotherapy
and temozolomide for newly diagnosed glioblastoma:
recursive partitioning analysis of the EORTC 26981/22981NCIC CE3 phase III randomized trial. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24:
2563–9.
7. Hegi ME, Diserens AC, Gorlia T et al. MGMT gene silencing
and benefit from temozolomide in glioblastoma. N Engl J
Med 2005; 352: 997–1003.
8. Keime-Guibert F, Chinot O, Taillandier L et al. Radiotherapy
for glioblastoma in the elderly. N Engl J Med 2007; 356:
1527–35.
9. Roa W, Brasher PM, Bauman G et al. Abbreviated course of
radiation therapy in older patients with glioblastoma multiforme: a prospective randomized clinical trial. J Clin Oncol
2004; 22: 1583–8.
10. Franceschi E, Omuro AM, Lassman AB et al. Salvage
temozolomide for prior temozolomide responders. Cancer
2005; 104: 2473–6.
11. Prados MD, Lamborn K, Yung WK et al. A phase 2 trial of
irinotecan (CPT-11) in patients with recurrent malignant
glioma: a North American Brain Tumor Consortium study.
Neuro Oncol 2006; 8: 189–93.
12. Vredenburgh JJ, Desjardins A, Herndon JE 2nd et al. Bevacizumab plus irinotecan in recurrent glioblastoma multiforme.
J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: 4722–9.
13. Stupp R, Reni M, Gatta G et al. Anaplastic astrocytoma in
adults. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol 2007; 63: 72–80.
14. Hildebrand J, De Witte O, Sahmoud T. Response of recurrent
glioblastoma and anaplastic astrocytoma to dibromodulcitol,
BCNU and procarbazine—a phase-II study. J Neurooncol
1998; 37: 155–60.
15. Hildebrand J, Gorlia T, Kros JM et al. Adjuvant dibromodulcitol and BCNU chemotherapy in anaplastic astrocytoma:
results of a randomised European Organisation for Research
and Treatment of Cancer phase III study (EORTC study
26882). Eur J Cancer 2008; 44: 1210–16.
16. Gerber DE, Grossman SA, Zeltzman M et al. The impact of
thrombocytopenia from temozolomide and radiation in newly
diagnosed adults with high-grade gliomas. Neuro Oncol
2007; 9: 47–52.
17. Yung WK, Prados MD, Yaya-Tur R et al. Multicenter phase
II trial of temozolomide in patients with anaplastic astrocytoma or anaplastic oligoastrocytoma at first relapse. Temodal
Brain Tumor Group. J Clin Oncol 1999; 17: 2762–71.
18. Louis DN, Ohgaki H, Wiestler OD et al. The 2007 WHO
classification of tumours of the central nervous system. Acta
Neuropathol 2007; 114: 97–109.
19. Cairncross G, Berkey B, Shaw E et al. Phase III trial of chemotherapy plus radiotherapy compared with radiotherapy
alone for pure and mixed anaplastic oligodendroglioma:
Intergroup Radiation Therapy Oncology Group Trial 9402.
J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 2707–14.

20. van den Bent MJ, Carpentier AF, Brandes AA et al. Adjuvant
procarbazine, lomustine, and vincristine improves progressionfree survival but not overall survival in newly diagnosed
anaplastic oligodendrogliomas and oligoastrocytomas: a
randomized European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer phase III trial. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24:
2715–22.
21. van den Bent MJ, Taphoorn MJ, Brandes AA et al. Phase II
study of first-line chemotherapy with temozolomide in recurrent oligodendroglial tumors: the European Organization for
Research and Treatment of Cancer Brain Tumor Group Study
26971. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 2525–8.
22. Taliansky-Aronov A, Bokstein F, Lavon I et al. Temozolomide
treatment for newly diagnosed anaplastic oligodendrogliomas:
a clinical efficacy trial. J Neurooncol 2006; 79: 153–7.
23. Chawengchao B, Petmitr S, Ponglikitmongkol M et al. Detection of a novel point mutation in the p53 gene in grade II
astrocytomas by PCR-SSCP analysis with additional Klenow
treatment. Anticancer Res 2001; 21: 2739–43.
24. Pignatti F, van den Bent M, Curran D et al. Prognostic factors
for survival in adult patients with cerebral low-grade glioma.
J clin oncol 2002; 20: 2076–84.
25. Karim AB, Afra D, Cornu P et al. Randomized trial on the
efficacy of radiotherapy for cerebral low-grade glioma in the
adult: European Organization for Research and Treatment of
Cancer Study 22845 with the Medical Research Council study
BRO4: an interim analysis. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2002;
52: 316–24.
26. Shaw E, Arusell R, Scheithauer B et al. Prospective randomized trial of low- versus high-dose radiation therapy in adults
with supratentorial low-grade glioma: initial report of a
North Central Cancer Treatment Group/Radiation Therapy
Oncology Group/Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group
study. J Clin Oncol 2002; 20: 2267–76.
27. van den Bent MJ, Afra D, de Witte O et al. Long-term efficacy
of early versus delayed radiotherapy for low-grade astrocytoma and oligodendroglioma in adults: the EORTC 22845
randomised trial. Lancet 2005; 366: 985–90.
28. Debus J, Kocagoncu KO, Hoss A et al. Fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy (FSRT) for optic glioma. Int J Radiat Oncol
Biol Phys 1999; 44: 243–8.
29. Recinos PF, Sciubba DM, Jallo GI. Brainstem tumors: where
are we today? Pediatr Neurosurg 2007; 43: 192–201.
30. Fisher PG, Breiter SN, Carson BS et al. A clinicopathologic
reappraisal of brain stem tumor classification. Identification
of pilocystic astrocytoma and fibrillary astrocytoma as distinct
entities. Cancer 2000; 89: 1569–76.
31. Epstein F, McCleary EL. Intrinsic brain-stem tumors of
childhood: surgical indications. J Neurosurg 1986; 64: 11–15.
32. Schild SE, Stafford SL, Brown PD et al. The results of
radiotherapy for brainstem tumors. J Neurooncol 1998; 40:
171–7.
33. Packer RJ, Ater J, Allen J et al. Carboplatin and vincristine
chemotherapy for children with newly diagnosed progressive
low-grade gliomas. J Neurosurg 1997; 86: 747–54.
34. Sanson M, Cartalat-Carel S, Taillibert S et al. Initial
chemotherapy in gliomatosis cerebri. Neurology 2004; 63:
270–5.
35. Grundy RG, Wilne SA, Weston CL et al. Primary postoperative chemotherapy without radiotherapy for intracranial
ependymoma in children: the UKCCSG/SIOP prospective
study. Lancet Oncol 2007; 8: 696–705.
36. Geyer JR, Sposto R, Jennings M et al. Multiagent chemotherapy and deferred radiotherapy in infants with malignant
brain tumors: a report from the Children’s Cancer Group.
J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 7621–31.
37. Mason WP, Goldman S, Yates AJ et al. Survival following
intensive chemotherapy with bone marrow reconstitution
for children with recurrent intracranial ependymoma—a

Chapter 16:

38.
39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.
47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

52.
53.
54.

55.

56.

57.

Management of Gliomas, Medulloblastoma, CNS Germ Cell Tumors, and Carcinomas Metastatic to the CNS

report of the Children’s Cancer Group. J Neurooncol 1998;
37: 135–43.
Schwartz TH, Kim S, Glick RS et al. Supratentorial ependymomas in adult patients. Neurosurgery 1999; 44: 721–31.
Regis J, Bouillot P, Rouby-Volot F et al. Pineal region tumors
and the role of stereotactic biopsy: review of the mortality,
morbidity, and diagnostic rates in 370 cases. Neurosurgery
1996; 39: 907–12.
Matsutani M, Sano K, Takakura K et al. Combined treatment
with chemotherapy and radiation therapy for intracranial
germ cell tumors. Childs Nerv Syst 1998; 14: 59–62.
Balmaceda C, Heller G, Rosenblum M et al. Chemotherapy
without irradiation—a novel approach for newly diagnosed
CNS germ cell tumors: results of an international cooperative
trial. The First International Central Nervous System Germ
Cell Tumor Study. J Clin Oncol 1996; 14: 2908–15.
Allen JC, Bosl G, Walker R. Chemotherapy trials in recurrent
primary intracranial germ cell tumors. J Neurooncol 1985; 3:
147–52.
Siegal T, Pfeffer MR, Catane R et al. Successful chemotherapy
of recurrent intracranial germinoma with spinal metastases.
Neurology 1983; 33: 631–3.
Baranzelli MC, Patte C, Bouffet E et al. An attempt to treat
pediatric intracranial alphaFP and betaHCG secreting
germ cell tumors with chemotherapy alone. SFOP experience
with 18 cases. Societe Francaise d’Oncologie Pediatrique.
J Neurooncol 1998; 37: 229–39.
Packer RJ, Sutton LN, Elterman R et al. Outcome for children
with medulloblastoma treated with radiation and cisplatin,
CCNU, and vincristine chemotherapy. J Neurosurg 1994; 81:
690–8.
Prados MD, Warnick RE, Wara WM et al. Medulloblastoma
in adults. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1995; 32: 1145–52.
Greenberg HS, Chamberlain MC, Glantz MJ et al. Adult
medulloblastoma: multiagent chemotherapy. Neuro Oncol
2001; 3: 29–34.
Abacioglu U, Uzel O, Sengoz M et al. Medulloblastoma in
adults: treatment results and prognostic factors. Int J Radiat
Oncol Biol Phys 2002; 54: 855–60.
Packer RJ, Gajjar A, Vezina G et al. Phase III study of craniospinal radiation therapy followed by adjuvant chemotherapy for newly diagnosed average-risk medulloblastoma.
J Clin Oncol 2006; 24: 4202–8.
Packer RJ, Sutton LN, Goldwein JW et al. Improved survival
with the use of adjuvant chemotherapy in the treatment of
medulloblastoma. J Neurosurg 1991; 74: 433–40.
Brandes AA, Franceschi E, Tosoni A et al. Long-term results
of a prospective study on the treatment of medulloblastoma
in adults. Cancer 2007; 110: 2035–41.
Patchell RA. The management of brain metastases. Cancer
Treat Rev 2003; 29: 533–40.
Byrne TN, Cascino TL, Posner JB. Brain metastasis from
melanoma. J Neurooncol 1983; 1: 313–17.
Kurtz JM, Gelber R, Brady LW et al. The palliation of brain
metastases in a favorable patient population: a randomized
clinical trial by the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group. Int
J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1981; 7: 891–5.
Borgelt B, Gelber R, Kramer S et al. The palliation of brain
metastases: final results of the first two studies by the
Radiation Therapy Oncology Group. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol
Phys 1980; 6: 1–9.
Davey P, Hoegler D, Ennis M et al. A phase III study of
accelerated versus conventional hypofractionated whole brain
irradiation in patients of good performance status with brain
metastases not suitable for surgical excision. Radiother Oncol
2008; 88: 173–6.
Patchell RA, Tibbs PA, Walsh JW et al. A randomized trial
of surgery in the treatment of single metastases to the brain.
N Engl J Med 1990; 322: 494–500.

299

58. Vecht CJ, Haaxma-Reiche H, Noordijk EM et al. Treatment
of single brain metastasis: radiotherapy alone or combined
with neurosurgery? Ann Neurol 1993; 33: 583–90.
59. Mintz AH, Kestle J, Rathbone MP et al. A randomized trial
to assess the efficacy of surgery in addition to radiotherapy
in patients with a single cerebral metastasis. Cancer 1996; 78:
1470–6.
60. Andrews DW, Scott CB, Sperduto PW et al. Whole brain
radiation therapy with or without stereotactic radiosurgery
boost for patients with one to three brain metastases: phase
III results of the RTOG 9508 randomised trial. Lancet 2004;
363: 1665–72.
61. Patchell RA, Tibbs PA, Regine WF et al. Postoperative radiotherapy in the treatment of single metastases to the brain: a
randomized trial. JAMA 1998; 280: 1485–9.
62. Aoyama H, Shirato H, Tago M et al. Stereotactic radiosurgery
plus whole-brain radiation therapy vs stereotactic radiosurgery alone for treatment of brain metastases: a randomized
controlled trial. JAMA 2006; 295: 2483–91.
63. Aoyama H, Tago M, Kato N et al. Neurocognitive function
of patients with brain metastasis who received either whole
brain radiotherapy plus stereotactic radiosurgery or radiosurgery alone. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2007; 68:
1388–95.
64. Boogerd W, Dalesio O, Bais EM et al. Response of brain
metastases from breast cancer to systemic chemotherapy.
Cancer 1992; 69: 972–80.
65. Bokemeyer C, Nowak P, Haupt A et al. Treatment of brain
metastases in patients with testicular cancer. J Clin Oncol
1997; 15: 1449–54.
66. Postmus PE, Smit EF. Chemotherapy for brain metastases of
lung cancer: a review. Ann Oncol 1999; 10: 753–9.
67. Antonadou D, Paraskevaidis M, Sarris G et al. Phase II randomized trial of temozolomide and concurrent radiotherapy
in patients with brain metastases. J Clin Oncol 2002; 20:
3644–50.
68. Addeo R, Caraglia M, Faiola V et al. Concomitant treatment
of brain metastasis with whole brain radiotherapy [WBRT]
and temozolomide [TMZ] is active and improves quality of
life. BMC Cancer 2007; 7: 18.
69. Verger E, Gil M, Yaya R et al. Temozolomide and concomitant whole brain radiotherapy in patients with brain metastases: a phase II randomized trial. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol
Phys 2005; 61: 185–91.
70. Mehta MP, Rodrigus P, Terhaard CH et al. Survival and
neurologic outcomes in a randomized trial of motexafin
gadolinium and whole-brain radiation therapy in brain
metastases. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 2529–36.
71. Siegal T, Lossos A, Pfeffer MR. Leptomeningeal metastases:
analysis of 31 patients with sustained off-therapy response
following combined-modality therapy. Neurology 1994; 44:
1463–9.
72. Glantz MJ, Jaeckle KA, Chamberlain MC et al. A randomized
controlled trial comparing intrathecal sustained-release cytarabine (DepoCyt) to intrathecal methotrexate in patients with
neoplastic meningitis from solid tumors. Clin Cancer Res
1999; 5: 3394–402.
73. Jaeckle KA, Phuphanich S, Bent MJ et al. Intrathecal treatment of neoplastic meningitis due to breast cancer with a
slow-release formulation of cytarabine. Br J Cancer 2001; 84:
157–63.
74. Raizer JJ, Hwu WJ, Panageas KS et al. Brain and leptomeningeal metastases from cutaneous melanoma: survival
outcomes based on clinical features. Neuro Oncol 2008; 10:
199–207.
75. Ku GY, Krol G, Ilson DH. Successful treatment of leptomeningeal disease in colorectal cancer with a regimen of
bevacizumab, temozolomide, and irinotecan. J Clin Oncol
2007; 25: e14—e16.

300
76.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Carmona-Bayonas A. Concurrent radiotherapy and capecitabine, followed by high-dose methotrexate consolidation,
provided effective palliation in a patient with leptomeningeal
metastases from breast cancer. Ann Oncol 2007; 18: 199–200.
77. Lassman AB, Abrey LE, Shah GD et al. Systemic high-dose
intravenous methotrexate for central nervous system metastases. J Neurooncol 2006; 78: 255–60.
78. Vecht CJ, Wagner GL, Wilms EB. Interactions between antiepileptic and chemotherapeutic drugs. Lancet Neurol 2003; 2: 404–9.
79. Glantz MJ, Cole BF, Forsyth PA et al. Practice parameter:
anticonvulsant prophylaxis in patients with newly diagnosed
brain tumors. Report of the Quality Standards Subcommittee
of the American Academy of Neurology. Neurology 2000; 54:
1886–93.
80. Baranzelli MC, Patte C, Bouffet E et al. Nonmetastatic intracranial germinoma: the experience of the French Society of
Pediatric Oncology. Cancer 1997; 80: 1792–7.

81.

Bouffet E, Baranzelli MC, Patte C et al. Combined treatment
modality for intracranial germinomas: results of a multicentre
SFOP experience. Societe Francaise d’Oncologie Pediatrique.
Br J Cancer 1999; 79: 1199–204.
82. Kellie SJ, Boyce H, Dunkel IJ et al. Intensive cisplatin
and cyclophosphamide-based chemotherapy without radiotherapy for intracranial germinomas: failure of a primary
chemotherapy approach. Pediatr Blood Cancer 2004; 43:
126–33.
83. Buckner JC, Peethambaram PP, Smithson WA et al. Phase II
trial of primary chemotherapy followed by reduced-dose
radiation for CNS germ cell tumors. J Clin Oncol 1999; 17:
933–40.
84. Kellie SJ, Boyce H, Dunkel IJ et al. Primary chemotherapy for
intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumors: results of
the second international CNS germ cell study group protocol.
J Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 846–53.

17
1
Malignant Melanoma
Alexander M. M. Eggermont

cutaneous melanoma. Around 5% of all invasive cutaneous
melanomas occur in a familial setting with two or more close
relatives affected, which indicates that in a small minority
of melanoma patients, there are low prevalence–high penetrance genes involved. In addition, the typical phenotype
of the melanoma patient, with pale Caucasian skin, red or
blond hair, and blue eyes suggests that high prevalence–
low penetrance genes such as MC1R may interact with
environmental factors, particularly with sun exposure.

TRENDS IN MELANOMA INCIDENCE
The incidence of malignant melanoma is increasing faster
than any other solid tumor. In the United States, more than
62,000 new patients are diagnosed annually and about
8000 patients die each year (1). The recent publication of
Cancer Incidence in Five Continents by the International
Agency for Research on Cancer volume IX covers the
period 1998–2002 and shows that the highest recorded incidence of cutaneous melanoma worldwide is in Queensland
Australia (56/105 per year for men, and 41/105 per year
for women) and is also very high in New Zealand at 35
and 31/105 per year, respectively, for men and women (2).
In the United States, for non-Hispanic whites, these numbers are 19/105 and 14/105 per year for men and women,
respectively. In Europe, incidence rates increase similarly
and vary highly according to region (north-south gradient)
and economic status (both north-south and west-east gradients). Incidence rates are highest in Switzerland, Austria,
and the Scandinavian countries. Recent data show a steep
rise in incidence in many east European countries, which
reflects their rapid economic development over the last
decades (3).
The main reason proposed for this increasing melanoma incidence over the last 40 years is greater exposure
of pale Caucasian skin to natural ultraviolet radiation.
A culture of sunbathing vacations from Scandinavia to
Mediterranean or similar sunny destinations are believed
to play a role. Short intermittent burning episodes of sun
exposure have been identified by Elwood and others as a
major melanoma risk factor (4). A problem in relating putative risk factors to the diagnosis of melanoma is the lack
of knowledge on the latent period between initiating factors such as ultraviolet exposure and clinical appearance
of a melanoma, which is measured in decades. Therefore,
melanoma incidence will most likely continue to increase
for at least the next 10 years (5). The observed increase in
incidence particularly concerns elderly men, and for thin
melanomas, young women of 20 to 40 years old (6). There
is no clear evidence that sun avoidance campaigns have
had a dramatic effect curbing this rise in incidence (7).

Melanoma Susceptibility Genes
About one-third of patients in melanoma families worldwide have an identifiable germline mutation in CDKN2A,
a gene important in controlling entry into the cell cycle (8).
A second melanoma susceptibility gene, CDK4, has been
identified in five families to date worldwide (9), but in
more than 50% of such families, no gene has been identified responsible for melanoma. The gene MC1R encodes
for a protein involved in the production of eumelanin,
which is responsible for dark coloring, and phaeomelanin,
which is responsible for red hair and freckles. Studies suggest an interaction between mutated CDKN2A and MC1R
(10,11). High prevalence–low penetrance genes such as
MC1R are important in that they may be relevant to a much
larger proportion of melanoma population compared with
the small number of familial cases with CDKN2A mutations. Furthermore, common sequence variants on chromosome 20q11.22 seem to confer melanoma susceptibility (12).
Also pigmentation gene variants ASIP and TYR have been
reported to be associated with melanoma (13). The ASIP
locus encodes the agouti signaling protein and TYR encodes
for tyrosinase, so this report brings a molecular genetic
explanation of the clinical observation of the association
between melanoma, fair skin, and fair or red hair.

Skin Type and Naevi and Melanoma Risk
The likely melanoma patient is a pale-skinned Caucasian
(phototype 1 and 2). High counts of banal melanocytic naevi
are both associated with UV exposure and a major risk
factor for sporadic melanoma. Also large atypical naevi,
termed dysplastic naevi, is also an independent risk factor
adding to melanoma risk.

GENETIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS
FOR MELANOMA

Medical History and Melanoma Risk

Melanoma risk factors are of a genetic or environmental
nature with interaction between the two. Table 17.1
summarizes established and postulated risk factors for

There are conflicting studies that show either no increase
or a significant increase in the risk for melanoma in renal
301

302

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 17.1 Genetic, Medical, and Environmental Risk Factors for
Cutaneous Melanoma
Genetic/medical history factors
Melanoma history
• Invasive cutaneous melanoma in one or more first-degree
relatives
• Previous personal primary invasive melanoma
Presence of naevi
• Multiple banal melanocytic naevi (over 100)
• Three or more clinically atypical (dysplastic) naevi
Skin/hair phenotype
• Pale caucasian skin (skin types 1 or 2)
• Red, blond hair
Immunomodulation
• Increase after post-renal transplantation?
• Decrease after use of NSAIDs?
Environmental factors
Sun exposure history
• High solar exposure in early childhood (before age 10)
• History of sunburns
• Sunbathing holidays
• Sunbed use (especially before age 30)
Economic status/occupation
• Higher socioeconomic status?
• Airline crew?
• Exposure to pesticides?

transplant recipients receiving immunosuppressive drugs.
A significant decrease in risk has been suggested in a recent
case–control study of the use of oral nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs use in melanoma patients and agematched controls, suggesting that the regular use of this
class of drugs is associated with reduced melanoma risk (14).
Further studies are needed to confirm this finding.

Natural and Artificial UV Exposure
and Melanoma Risk
On the one hand, short intense episodes of burning sun
exposure appear to be a significant risk factor for melanoma,
and on the other hand, cumulative ultraviolet exposure
over the years may be involved especially in the lentigo
maligna variety of melanoma. Whiteman and others postulated two distinct partly UV-induced pathways to melanoma that give rise to different clinical outcomes: the first
involves intense intermittent exposure on the trunk of individuals who have large numbers of banal naevi and have
melanoma diagnosed at a relatively young age, and the
second is found in older individuals with chronic UVexposure who may have a history of nonmelanoma skin
cancer (15). This dual pathway concept is consistent with
the observation of Thomas et al. that the BRAF gene mutations are more likely in melanoma of younger subjects with
large numbers of naevi (type A) than in lesions on sun
exposed skin of older patients (type B) (16).
On top of all this, the use of sunbeds has become very
fashionable over the last decades. A recent meta-analysis
of sunbed use and melanoma has concluded that overall
sunbed exposure does add to melanoma risk (17).
Both sunbathing vacations and sunbed use are
associated with the socioeconomic status, which has also
emerged as a risk factor.

Occupation and Melanoma Risk
Chronic occupational sun exposure and working as a member of an airline crew have been reported to be associated
with higher incidence rates of melanoma, as has the history
of exposure to pesticides. These observations need to be
confirmed by additional studies.

VISUAL DIAGNOSIS OF MELANOMA
Early diagnosis of melanoma should increase the cure rate.
Melanomas develop in existing naevi in about 50% and as
de novo lesions in the other 50%. Earlier public recognition
of melanoma concentrates on simple guidelines, aimed
mainly at superficial spreading lesions, which are the bulk
of primary tumors. These guides include the U.S.-based
ABCDEs of melanoma recognition and the Glasgow sevenpoint checklist (Table 17.2). Other useful simple aids to
earlier diagnosis include the so-called ugly duckling sign,
signifying a pigmented lesion, which is clearly distinct
from other pigmented lesions on the same body site (18).

STAGING OF CUTANEOUS MELANOMA
The Current AJCC Staging System
The AJCC staging system is based on the evaluation of
primary tumor (T), with Breslow thickness and ulceration
as the major prognostic factor; the presence or absence of
regional lymphatic metastases (N) and the number of
involved lymph nodes as secondary factors of major prognostic significance; and distant metastases (M) with metastatic site and LDH levels as factors of major prognostic
significance. The system divides patients into four groups
(Tables 17.3 and 17.4) (19).
Stage I is limited to patients with low-risk primary
melanomas, without any evidence of regional or distant
metastases and is divided into stages IA and IB. Stage IA
includes primary lesions ≤1 mm thick, without ulceration
of the overlying epithelium or invasion of the reticular
dermis or subcutaneous fat (Clark level IV or V). Stage IB
includes primary lesions ≤1 mm thick with epithelial ulceration or invasion into Clark levels IV or V. It also includes
primary lesions ≥1 mm and ≤2 mm thick without ulceration
or invasion into Clark levels IV or V.
Stage II includes high-risk primary tumors, without
the evidence of lymphatic disease or distant metastases and
is divided into three subcategories. Stage IIA includes

Table 17.2 ABCD(Es) of Melanoma and Glasgow Seven-Point
Checklist to Assist Accurate Preoperative Diagnosis of Cutaneous
Malignant Melanoma
ABCDE
A—Asymmetry
B—Border irregularity
C—Color variation
D—Diameter ≥6 mm
E—Elevation or
enlargement or
exudation

Glasgow seven-point checklist
Three major points
Change in size
Change in shape
Change in color

Four minor points
Diameter ≥6 mm
Oozing or crusting
Inflammation
Itch

Chapter 17:

Table 17.3

TNM Classification of Cutaneous Melanoma

Tumor (T) classification
TX
Primary tumor cannot be assessed (e.g., shave biopsy,
regressed primary)
Tis
Melanoma in situ
T1
≤1.00 mm
a: Without ulceration or level II/III
b: With ulceration or level IV or V
T2
1.01–2.00 mm
a: Without ulceration
b: With ulceration
T3
2.01–4.00 mm
a: Without ulceration
b: With ulceration
T4
>4.00 mm
a: Without ulceration
b: With ulceration
Node (N) classification
N1
One lymph node
a: Micrometastasesa (clinically occult)
b: Macrometastasesb (clinically apparent)
N2
Two to three lymph nodes
a: Micrometastasesa
b: Macrometastasesb
c: In-transit met(s)/satellite(s) without metastatic lymph nodes
N3
Four or more lymph nodes, metastatic or matted, or in-transit
met(s)/satellite(s) with metastatic lymph node(s)
Metastasis (M) classification
M1
a: Distant skin, subcutaneous or lymph node metastases,
normal LDH
b: Lung metastases, normal LDH
c: All other visceral metastases, normal LDH
Any distant metastases, elevated LDH
a

Micrometastases are diagnosed after elective or sentinel lymphadenectomy.
Macrometastases are clinically detectable lymph node metastases confirmed by
therapeutic lymphadenectomy, or lymph node metastases exhibiting gross
extracapsular extension.
Source: Adapted from Ref. 19.
b

lesions >1 mm and ≤2 mm thick with ulceration of the overlying epithelium and those >2 mm and ≤4 mm thick without epithelial ulceration. Stage IIB lesions are >2 mm and
≤4 mm thick with epithelial ulceration or >4 mm without
ulceration. Stage IIC consists of primary lesions >4 mm
with epithelial ulceration.
Stage III includes lesions with pathologically documented involvement of regional lymph nodes or the presence of in-transit or satellite metastases. Patients with one,
two to three, and four or more affected lymph nodes are
classified as having N1, N2, and N3 disease, respectively
(Tables 17.1 and 17.2). Patients with in-transit or satellite
metastases are classified as having N2 disease if lymph
node involvement is not present, and as having N3 disease
if lymph node involvement is present. In addition, microscopic versus macroscopic lymph node involvement is further subdivided as, for example, N1a versus N1b category,
respectively. The presence of ulceration in the primary
tumor remains an independent negative prognostic factor
among patients with stage III disease, particularly those
with microscopically involved nodes. Using these parameters, patients with stage III disease are divided into three
subcategories: (a) Stage IIIA includes patients with one to
three microscopically involved lymph nodes (N1a or N2a)

Table 17.4

Malignant Melanoma

303

AJCC 2002 Stage Groupings for Cutaneous Melanoma

Stage

Clinical stage grouping

Pathologic stage grouping

0
IA
IB

Tis
T1a
T1b
T2a
T2b
T3a
T3b
T4a
T4b
Any T

pTis
pT1a
pT1b
pT2a
pT2b
pT3a
pT3b
pT4a
pT4b

N0
N0
N0
N0
N0
N0
N0
N0
N0

M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0

pT1-4a
pT1-4a
pT1-4b
pT1-4b
pT1-4a
pT1-4a
pT1-4a/b
pT1-4b
pT1-4b
Any T
Any T

N1a
N2a
N1a
N2a
N1b
N2b
N2c
N1b
N2b
N3
Any N

M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M1

IIA
IIB
IIC
III∆
IIIA

N0
N0
N0
N0
N0
N0
N0
N0
N0
N1-3

M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0

IIIB

IIIC
IV

Any T

Any N

M1

Source: Adapted from Ref. 19.

and with a nonulcerated primary tumor. (b) Stage IIIB
includes patients with one to three microscopically involved
lymph nodes (N1a or N2a) and with an ulcerated primary tumor; or patients with one to three macroscopically
involved lymph nodes (N1b or N2b) and with a nonulcerated primary tumor; or patients with in-transit and/or
satellite without metastatic lymph nodes (N2c). (c) Stage IIIC
includes patients with four or more affected lymph nodes,
matted lymph nodes, or the presence of in-transit metastases
or satellite lesions in conjunction with lymph node involvement (N3); or patients with one to three macroscopically
involved lymph nodes (N2b) and with an ulcerated primary tumor. Patients with clinical evidence of regional
lymph node without a full regional lymph node dissection
are classified as clinical stage III, and no further staging is
applied.
Stage IV is defined by the presence of distant metastases, and patients are divided into three subcategories
based on the metastasis location: M1a is limited to distant
skin, subcutaneous tissues, or lymph nodes; M1b involves
lung metastases; and M1c involves all other visceral sites.
In addition, the presence of an elevated serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in conjunction with any distant metastasis
is classified as M1c disease.

Key Features of AJCC Staging System
The key features of the current 2002 AJCC staging system
when compared with the prior 1997 system include (1) tumor
thickness rather than level of invasion as a primary determinant for staging, (2) ulceration of primary tumor as a
highly significant and independent negative prognostic factor, (3) grouping together satellite and in-transit metastases
as a manifestation of lymphatic involvement rather than
as an extension of primary tumor, and (4) the number of
lymph node metastases as a more reliable and reproducible

304

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

predictor of prognosis than size of involved lymph nodes
(the number of lymph node metastases is used to divide
patients with stage III disease, and lymph node involvement is further subdivided into micro- or macrometastatic),
(5) separation of lung metastases from other visceral sites
of involvement, based on an observed longer survival, and
(6) elevated serum LDH as a negative prognostic factor for
patients with metastatic disease.

SURGICAL MANAGEMENT
Extending Surgical Procedures for Primary Melanoma
Surgical management strategies in the treatment of primary
melanomas have demonstrated that extended surgical procedures, e.g., wide margins (five randomized trials), elective
lymph node dissection (four randomized trials), prophylactic isolated perfusion (one randomized trial), or sentinel
node staging (one randomized trial), have no significant
impact on survival (all trials reviewed in Ref. 20). The currently popular sentinel node biopsy (SNB) staging procedure needs a more detailed discussion.

Sentinel Node Biopsy
SN-status: Strongest Prognostic Factor
in Melanoma
SN-status is the strongest prognostic factor in melanoma
patients. Literature studies demonstrate five-year overall
survival (OS) rates of 93% and 89% for SN-negative patients,
and OS rates of between 67% and 64% for SN-positive
patients (21,22).

SNB Staging Does Not Provide Survival Benefit
SNB is a staging procedure without impact on survival.
The outcome of the MSLT-1 trial, comparing wide excision
alone, where patients were followed up and underwent a
delayed lymph node dissection (DLND) in case of subsequent clinical lymph node involvement versus WE + SNB,
where patients with a positive SN underwent an immediate
completion lymph node dissection (CLND), demonstrated
clearly that at five years overall survival was virtually
identical in both patient groups (86.6% for WE alone, and
87.1% for WE + SNB) (22). Comparison of the outcome in
patients with a positive SN who underwent CLND with
patients that underwent DLND in the WE-only group
showed a survival benefit for the SN + CLND patients.
These patient groups however are not directly comparable,
and one may compare outcome in biologically different
patient populations. It has become evident that not all SNpositive patients develop clinically node-positive disease,
as patients with very small submicrometastases in the SN
behave just like SN-negative patients (23) and may represent “clinically prognostically false-positive cases” (24).

SNB and Local Control
SN staging may improve long-term locoregional control in
the lymph node basin compared with the patients who
undergo DLND (22). Ultrasound of the regional lymph
nodes may also be able to achieve this by detecting very
small nonpalpable lymph node metastases, thus offering
an alternative to a SN procedure (25). Some reports have

assumed an increased rate of in-transit metastasis after the
SN procedure, but this has been refuted by the MSLT-1
trial and large data sets (22,26).

SN and Utility for Adjuvant Systemic
Therapy Trials
SN staging is quite useful for stratifying patients in randomized systemic adjuvant therapy trials to create more
homogeneous patient populations to determine whether
adjuvant systemic therapies are of benefit. This will be
further illustrated by the analyses of the EORTC 18952 and
18991 trials in the adjuvant therapy section below.

Conclusions Surgery of Primary
In conclusion, phase III randomized trials have shown that
wide margins, elective lymph node dissections, SNB, and
prophylactic isolated limb perfusions (ILPs) have not
improved survival, and on the claim of providing a survival benefit cannot be considered standard of care in the
routine management of primary melanoma.

SURGERY OF METASTATIC DISEASE
Therapeutic Lymph Node Dissection
The most frequently affected basins are the neck, axilla, and
groin; the involvement of popliteal fossa or epitrochlear
lymph nodes is rare. Lymphadenectomy may be curative
or only prevent further relapse at that site. Both aims can
only be achieved by meticulous removal of all involved
and at-risk nodes. In general, this means dissection of all
five levels of lymph nodes in the neck plus superficial
parotidectomy if the primary site is thought to drain
to parotid nodes, all three levels in the axilla, and the
superficial, deep inguinofemoral and ilio-obturator nodes.
Pelvic lymph nodes should be included if enlarged on
preoperative imaging.

Therapeutic ILP for in-Transit metastasis
ILP is successful in treating highly morbid symptomatic
in-transit metastasis. ILP, especially when melphalan is combined with TNF, is also highly effective in the symptomatic
setting of multiple or bulky in-transit metastases, with CR
rates of 70% and in the treatment of melphalan ILP failures
with similarly high CR rates (27). The isolated limb infusion procedure is simpler and cheaper but confined to
smaller limb volumina and has lower response rates (28).

Surgery for Distant Metastasis
The purpose of treatment of distant metastases is often
palliation and its indication and utility is unfortunately
underrated and underutilized. Surgery is the most effective
means of providing this if it is technically feasible, if risk
of morbidity and mortality is low, and if the patient is
likely to live long enough to benefit. Good examples are
single or localized metastases to the brain, bowel, lung, and
sometimes liver. Completely resected single distant metastases may occasionally be associated with long survival (29).
There is no prospective study comparing surgical with
medical approaches to treatment of melanoma patients with
a single or very few distant metastases.

Chapter 17:

Conclusions Surgery of Metastases
In conclusion, surgery remains the most effective treatment
modality for metastatic disease. Radical lymphadenectomies
for regional node basins have been standardized. ILPs for
multiple in-transit metastases are effective, and resections
of oligometastatic stage IV disease are to be considered
in all patients with these clinical presentations.

SYSTEMIC ADJUVANT THERAPIES
Failure of Chemotherapy, Aspecific
Immunostimulants, and Vaccines
Around 25 trials have been conducted evaluating chemotherapy or aspecific immunostimulants such as Bacillus
Calmette-Guerin (BCG), Corynebacterium parvum, Levamisole,
or combinations of these agents with dacarbazine in
stage II-III melanoma. The trials were almost invariably
underpowered yielding negative results with the exception of incidental nonrepeatable small-sized positive trials
(reviewed in Ref. 20). None of five randomized trials with
allogeneic melanoma cell-based vaccines demonstrated a
significant impact on survival. The SWOG Melacine vaccine
trial in stage II melanoma patients was negative overall
but showed encouraging results in patients with particular
HLA-types. A small trial with the ganglioside GM2 did
show a benefit in a subset analysis of stage III patients
who were seronegative for ganglioside antibodies prior to
trial entry. This study led to the EORTC18961 trial in
1314 stage II patients, that was unblinded at the second
interim analysis because of futility (DFS) and a significant
trend for detrimental impact on survival (30). As a result
of this, the outcome of the ECOG1694 trial, which compared the GMK-vaccine to high-dose IFN (HDI) treatment,
is no longer interpretable (31). The significant difference
between GMK-vaccine and HDI at the second interim
analysis in that trial could be caused by a detrimental
impact mediated by the vaccine. Unfortunately, these truly
negative results have been observed also in other adjuvant
trials. Both allogeneic cell lines–based Canvaxin trials in
resected stage IV (496 patients) as well as in stage III
(1166 patients) were unblinded early and stopped because
of negative and even detrimental impact on survival (32).

Interferon Alpha
The failure of vaccine trials means that for years to come,
interferon alpha is the only drug that will be used or
Table 17.5

Malignant Melanoma

305

considered to be used in the adjuvant setting. The evidence
for its use is relatively complex and needs to be discussed
in detail.

Individual High Dose-Intermediate
Dose-Low Dose Trial Data
High-Dose IFN Trials. The comparative trials of HDI
with observation in stage II and III (NCTCG, ECOG1684,
ECOG1690, Sunbelt Trial) melanoma have demonstrated a
consistent impact on disease-free survival (DFS) but not on
overall survival (OS) (33–37) (Table 17.5). On the basis of
the ECOG1684 trial (34), the use of HDI therapy was
approved by both the FDA in the United States and EMEA
in Europe for patients with high-risk melanoma (stage
IIB-III). HDI is used in the United States but only in few
European centers, because the impact of the therapy on
overall survival is uncertain (35,36), and the toxicity and
cost is relatively high. The recent Sunbelt trial (36) in the
United States in SN-positive patients was negative. Also of
importance is the outcome of the Hellenic trial demonstrating that four weeks of intravenous HDI was as good as
the classical ECOG1684 one-year schedule of HDI, and
much better tolerated (37).
Intermediate Dose IFN Trials. Intermediate doses of
IFN (IDI) (Table 17.6) were tested in patients with stage
IIB-III disease in the largest phase III trial to date
(EORTC18952) (38). The results demonstrated a statistically
insignificant 7.2% increase in distant metastasis-free interval (hazard ratio 0.83, 97.5% CI 0.66–1.03, p = 0.05) and a
5.4% increase in overall survival (OS, hazard ratio 0.85,
97.5% CI 0.68–1.07, p = 0.12) at 4.65 years of follow-up.
However, the increase in OS was observed only in patients
treated for 25 months with 5MU IFNα2b and not in those
treated for 13 months with 10 MU IFNα2b (38). These
results suggested that duration of therapy may be more
important than dose. The Nordic trial in 800 patients
reported a very similar impact of intermediate dose IFN,
without the indication that two years was better than one
year of treatment (39).
The question of treatment duration was addressed in
the next EORTC trial (18991) in which 1256 patients were
randomized to five years of pegylated interferon α2b (PEGIFN) or observation alone (Tables 17.7 and 17.8) (30).
In this trial, the dosing schedule is comparable to the
HDI, but bioavailability of PEG-IFN may make it more

High-Dose IFN Trials in Stage II/III Melanoma

Trial

Stage

Treatment

DFS

OS

NCTCG (33)
ECOG 1684 (34)

II-III
IIB, III

ECOG 1690 (35)

IIB, III

5-yr; HR = 0.77; p = 0.19
6.9 yr; HR = 0.56
p = 0.0046
4.4 yr; HR = 0.90;
p = 0.054

5-yr; HR = 0.88; p = 0.40
6.9 yr; HR = 0.68
p = 0.046
4.4 yr; HR = 1.07; p = 0.99

Sunbelt (36)

III SN+
IIB, III

5.3 yr; HR = 0.82;
p = 0.46
3 yr; HR = 0.95;
p = 0.70

5.3 yr; HR = 1.03; p = 0.90

Hellenic (37)

IFNα2a, 3 × 20 MIU/M2/wk, IM for 3 mo
IFNα2b, 20 MIU/qDays1–5/IV,
for 4 wk, + 3 × 10 MIU/wk, SC, for 48 wk
IFNα2b,
20 MIU/qDays1–5/IV,
for 4 wk, + 3 × 10 MIU/wk, SC, for 48 wk
IFNα2b, 20 MIU/qDays1–5/IV,
for 4 wk, + 3 × 10 MIU/wk, SC, for 48 wk
IFNα2b 15 MIU/qDays1–5/IV, for 4 wk vs.
ECOG1684 schedule

Abbreviations: HR, hazard ratio; IM, intramuscular; IV, intravenous; MIU, million international units; SC, subcutaneous; yr, year.

3 yr; HR = 1.11;
p = 0.52

306

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Table 17.6

Intermediate Dose IFN Trials in Stage IIB/III

Trial

Stage

Treatment

DFS

OS

EORTC 18952 (38)

IIB-III

Nordic (39)

IIB, III

4.65-yr; HR = 0.81; p = 0.12 4.65-yr; HR = 0.88; p = 0.40
IFNα2b,
10 MIU/qDays1–5/SC, for 4 wk, + 3 × 10 MIU/wk,
SC for 12 mo or 3 × 5 MIU/wk, SC for 24 mo
6 yr; HR = 0.83
6 yr; HR = 0.88
IFNα2b,
p = 0.05
p = 0.47
10 MIU/qDays1–5/SC, for 4 wk, + 3 × 10 MIU/
wk, SC for 12 mo or 3 × 10 MIU/wk, SC for 24 mo

Table 17.7 Long Term Pegylated IFNα2b. EORTC 18991: Significant Impact of Pegylated Interferon
α2b (PEG-IFN) on Disease-Free Survival (DFS) but Not on Distant Metastasis-Free Survival (DMFS) and
Overall Survival (OS) in Patients with Stage III Melanoma
EORTC 18991 (40)
PEG-IFNa
Observationa
HR (95% CI)
p-Value
a

DFS

DMFS

OS

45.6% (2.2)
38.9% (2.2)
0.82 (0.71–0.96)
0.01

48.2% (2.2)
45.4% (2.3)
0.88 (0.75–1.03)
0.11

56.8% (2.2)
55.7% (2.1)
0.98 (0.82–1.16)
0.78

4-year rate (SE).

Table 17.8 Long Term Pegylated IFNα2b. EORTC 18991: Significant Impact of Pegylated Interferon
α2b (PEG-IFN) on Disease-Free Survival (DFS) and Distant Metastasis-Free Survival (DMFS) in Stage III
Melanoma Patients with N1 Microscopic but Not N2 Macroscopic Nodal Involvement
EORTC 18991 (40)

PEG-IFNa
Observationa
HR (99% CI)
p-Value
a

DFS

DMFS

N1(micro)

N2(macro)

N1(micro)

N2(macro)

57.7% (3.3)
45.4% (3.5)
0.73 (0.53–1.02)
0.016

36.3% (2.8)
33.9% (2.6)
0.86 (0.68–1.10)
0.12

60.5% (3.6)
52.6% (3.5)
0.75 (0.52–1.07)
0.03

38.7% (2.8)
39.9% (2.7)
0.94 (0.73–1.21)
0.53

4-year rate (SE).

comparable to high intermediate doses of IFN. PEG-IFN
was administered for an induction period of eight weeks
at 6 μg/kg body weight followed by long-term maintenance dosing of 3 μg/kg for the rest of five years. This was
a registration study with relapse-free survival (RFS) as
primary endpoint. RFS was significantly improved without
a significant impact on distant metastasis-free survival
(DMFS) or OS (Table 17.7). In patients with only microscopic involvement of regional lymph nodes (SNB-positive
patients, N1), impact of the treatment was significant both
for RFS and DMFS (Table 17.8), in contrast to a much
smaller impact in those with palpable nodal involvement
(N2). This significant impact was very similar to the observations in stage IIB and IIIN1 patients in the EORTC 18952
trial. This supports the importance and value of SN staging, which now identifies most of stage III patients.
Another clinical trial that addresses the duration of
treatment only is currently analyzed. The trial of the Dermatologic Cooperative Oncology Group (DeCOG) compared administration of low-dose IFNα2a (3 × 3 MU/week)
for 18 months—as approved in Europe—to administration
for 60 months. No differences in terms of an improvement
of disease-free or overall survival have been observed with
the prolonged treatment duration (41).

Low-Dose IFN Trials. The impact of low-dose IFN
(LDI) has been clearly established in stage II (42–44) but
may be somewhat less substantial in stage III (45–47). In
stage II, the LDI therapy has been particularly successful;
a consistent and significant effect on DFS was observed in
the French (42), Austrian (43), and Scottish (44) studies,
with even a borderline significant effect on survival in the
French trial (Table 17.9). LDI regimens of two and three
years in stage IIB and III were tested in the Intergroup
1690 (35) and in the UKCCR Aim High trial (45) with quite
modes results. Also, the WHO-16 trial, which evaluated
three years of LDI in palpable nodes stage III patients, was
negative both for DFS as well as for OS (46). Thus, it seems
that earlier disease is more responsive to LDI than more
advanced disease. In contrast, very recently, results of a
DeCOG trial showed not only DFS but also OS benefit for
LDI-treated patients compared to that in untreated controls
in stage III patients, whereas the combination of LDI and
dacarbazine did not demonstrate any benefit (47). Ultra
low-dose IFN (1 MIU) was evaluated in the EORTC 18871
trial in stage II (>3 mm) and stage III patients and did not
have any impact on DFS or OS (48). LDI (3 MIU) therapy
was approved as an adjuvant therapy for stage II patients
by the EMEA in Europe. The quite significant impact of

Chapter 17:

Table 17.9

Malignant Melanoma

307

Low-Dose IFN Trials in Stage II/III Melanoma

Trial

Stage

Treatment

DFS

OS

French (42)
Austrian (43)

II
II

5-yr; HR = 0.75; p = 0.035
3.4 yr; HR = 0.62; p = 0.02

5-yr; HR = 0.72; p = 0.059
3.4 yr; HR = 0.83; p = NS

Scottish (44)
ECOG 1690 (35)
UKCCR (45)
WHO-16 (46)
German (47)
EORTC 18871 (48)

IIB, III
IIB, III
IIB, III
III
III
II-III

IFNα2a, 3 × 3 MIU/wk for 18 mo
IFNα2a, 3 MIU/qday for 3 wk; 3 × 3 MIU/wk,
for 12 mo
IFNα2b, 3 × 3 MIU/wk, for 6 mo
IFNα2b, 3 × 3 MIU/wk, for 24 mo
IFNα2a, 3 × 3 MIU/wk, for 24 mo
IFNα2a, 3 × 3 MIU/wk, for 36 mo
IFNα2a, 3 × 3 MIU/wk, for 24 mo
IFNα2b, 3 × 1 MIU/wk, for 12 mo

2-yr; HR = 0.72; p = 0.05
5 yr; HR = 0.90; p = 0.17
5 yr; HR = 0.94; p = 0.6
5 yr; HR = 0.95; p = 0.5
4-yr; HR = 0.69; p = 0.018
8 yr; HR = 0.96
p > 0.5

2-year; HR = 0.81; p > 0.2
5 yr; HR = 0.93; p = 0.81
5 yr; HR = 0.91; p = 0.3
5 yr; HR = 0.96; p > 0.5
4-yr; HR = 0.62; p = 0.0045
8 yr; HR = 0.96
p > 0.7

Table 17.10

Combination Trials with Low-Dose IFN

Trial

Combination

Stage

DFS

OS

Garbe et al. (47)
Mitchell et al. (49)
Hauschild et al. (50)
Richtig et al. (51)

IFNα2a + dacarbazinea
IFNα2b + Melacineb
IFNα2b + interleukin-2c
IFNα2a + isotretinoind

III
III
II
II

4-yr; p = 0.97
5-yr, p = 0.80
6.6-yr; p = 0.93
5-yr; p = 0.25

4-yr; p = 0.75
5-yr; p = 0.57
6.6-yr; p = 0.93
5-yr; p = 0.80

Control arms: a,dlow-dose IFN.
b
high-dose IFN.
c
observation.

IFN in stage II/III patient trials at the time when these
patients were not SN-staged corresponds very well with
the observations in the EORTC18952 and 18991 trials where
the best benefit was observed in patients with positive
sentinel nodes.

Combinational Trials with Low-Dose IFNa
Four prospective-randomized multicenter trials demonstrated that a combination of low-dose IFNα with other
agents would not contribute to a better outcome for melanoma patients (Table 17.10). A DeCOG trial combined LDI
with dacarbazine, both drugs given for two years in
patients with stage III disease. Surprisingly, the combination of LDI plus dacarbazine diminished the treatment
effects observed by LDI alone (47). Another randomized
trial on 604 stage III melanoma patients combined Melacine
with low-dose IFNα. This regimen was compared to highdose IFNα2b alone. No differences, in terms of an improvement of RFS or OS, were observed (49). A DeCOG trial on
LDI combined with low-dose interleukin 2 (IL-2) presented
overlapping survival curves for DFS and OS compared to
untreated controls (50). A randomized, double-blinded,
placebo-controlled trial from Austria comparing LDI and
isotretinoin to IFNα alone in stage II A/II B melanoma
patients was stopped for futility (51). In conclusion, a combination of low-dose IFNα with various other agents,
which might have an additional or synergistic effect, did
not demonstrate any beneficial effect on either conventional LDI or observation alone.

demonstrated a consistent DFS improvement but no statistically significant impact on OS. A meta-analysis based on
individual patient data, reported at the 43rd Annual Meeting of ASCO in 2007, confirmed the statistically significant
benefit on DFS (7%) (55). It also demonstrated, for the first
time, statistically significant impact on OS. However, this
impact is extremely small and constitutes an absolute
improvement of 3%. Moreover, this effect is partly due to
the inclusion of trials ECOG1694, which had the ganglioside GM2 vaccine as a comparator arm (31). The validity
of inclusion of this trial has been very recently questioned
as the GMK vaccine in the EORTC18961 trial was associated with worse outcome (30). Another important finding
from this meta-analysis is that the benefits of IFN were not
clearly dose-related.

Lack of Useful Predictive Factors
Gogas and colleagues have reported that patients treated
with adjuvant IFN who developed auto-antibodies against
thyreoglobulin, antinuclear antibodies, or cardiolipin had
a significantly better outcome than patients who did not
develop these signs of autoimmunity (56). The development of markers that might predict who will mount a host
immune response could be extremely important. The markers could be used to determine which patients to treat with
IFN and for how long. An evaluation of the presence or
emergence of autoantibodies in patients who participated
in the EORTC 18952 and EORTC18991 trials did not confirm Gogas’ observations (57,58).

Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses

Conclusions

A systematic review of all trials (52), a meta-analysis of all
trials (53), and a pooled data analysis of all HDI trials (54)

The lack of beneficial drugs in stage IV melanoma is
reflected by a lack of clearly effective adjuvant therapies

308

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

for patients with stage II-III melanoma. After decades of
research, cytotoxic drugs, immune stimulants, and vaccines
have all failed to show any clinically meaningful impact
in the adjuvant setting. IFNα is the only drug that is presently considered for adjuvant therapy and is used with
various schedules in Europe, both in stage II and stage III
patients. In the absence of a clear overall survival benefit,
its role remains optional instead of standard of care. Adjuvant trials of bevacizumab and anti-CTLA4 (EORTC18071 in
macroscopic stage III) were commenced in 2008, but results
will not be known before 2011. Pegylated-IFN will be
explored by EORTC (EORTC18081) in ulcerated, primary
high-risk, stage II patients because of analyses of both EORTC
18952 and 18991 that suggest increased IFN-sensitivity in
patients with primary ulcerated melanomas.

SYSTEMIC THERAPIES FOR STAGE IV DISEASE
Investigational Drugs in First Line for Metastatic
Melanoma
It is sobering to see how little, if any, progress has been
made over the last three decades in the systemic treatment
of advanced metastatic melanoma. The response rate to the
“standard” drug dacarbazine is probably inferior to 10%,
and no treatment is good enough to be considered standard

Table 17.11

of care (59). Polychemotherapy, addition of tamoxifen,
interferon, interleukin-2, or their combinations have all
failed to improve survival in more than 27 phase III trials
(60–88), which are summarized in Tables 17.11, 17.12, and
17.13. Also a recently conducted phase III trial (EORTC
180832) evaluating a dose-intensified administration of
temozolomide (TMZ) versus a standard DTIC regimen
failed to demonstrate a benefit for TMZ (89).
So new agents should be offered in first line to stage
IV melanoma patients to identify active new agents. Moreover, vaccine therapy trials have yielded very low response
rates and no indication of any impact on survival (90). In
randomized trials, dendritic cells failed (91) as well as peptides in combination with IL-2 (92). The anti-CTLA4 antibody
may be important alone, or in combination with cytokines
and vaccines, as it fundamentally changes the balance
between T-helper and T-supressor/T-regulatory cells and can
change the immune response and immune status of melanoma patients and cause (lasting) tumor regressions (93).
Unfortunately, the pivotal randomized trial of tremelimumab
versus DTIC did not show a benefit over DTIC (94). The
ipilimumab trials are ongoing and ipilimumab will also be
evaluated in the adjuvant setting in stage III patients with
macroscopically involved nodes (EORTC 18071).
The pro-apoptotic antisense drug oblimersen was evaluated in a very large phase III trial involving 777 patients.

Randomized Trials Mono vs. Polychemotherapy ± Tamoxifen

Year (authors)

Regimen

#Pts

Median survival

Chemotherapies
1998 (Jungnelius et al.)
2002 (Jelić et al.)
2005 (Bafaloukos et al.)

DV vs. DVC
D1CaV vs. D2CaV vs. VBlC vs. CaP
TMZ vs. TMZ + C

326
219
132

5.9 vs. 7.2
4 vs. 5 vs. 6 vs. 4
11.5 vs. 12

NS
NS
NS

60
61
62

117
204
248
56
184
240

6.5 vs. 11
7 vs. 7
10 vs. 9 vs. 8 vs. 9.5
7 vs. 4.6
6.8 vs. 6.9
6.4 vs. 7.7

p = 0.02
NS
NS
NS
NS
NS

63
64
65
66
67
68

Chemotherapies involving Tamoxifen
1992 (Cocconi et al.)
D vs. DT
1996 (Rusthoven et al.)
BCB vs. DCBT
1998 (Falkson et al.)
D ± T ± IFN
1999 (Agarwala et al.)
D + Carbo ± T
1999 (Creagan et al.)
DCaC ± T
1999 (Chapman et al.)
D vs. DCBT

Significance

Ref.

Abbreviations: B, BCNU; Bl, bleomycin; C, cisplatin; Ca, carmustine; carbo, carboplatin; D, dacarbazide; NS, not significant; P, procarbazine; T, tamoxifen;
V, vinblastine.

Table 17.12

Randomized Trials Investigating Value of Addition of IFN to (Poly) Chemotherapy

Year (Author)

Regimen

#Pts

Median survival
(months)

Significance

Ref.

1991 (Falkson et al.)
1993 (Thomson et al.)
1994 (Bajetta et al.)
1998 (Falkson et al.)
2000 (Middleton et al.)
2001 (Young et al.)
2005 (Kaufmann et al.)
2005 (Vuoristo et al.)

D ± IFN
D ± IFN
D ± IFNa
D vs. D/IFN vs. D/T vs. D/IFN/T
D/IFN vs. DCBT
D ± IFN
TMZ ± IFN
D/nIFN vs. DCBT/IFN vs. D/rIFN vs. DCBT/rIFN

64
170
242
258
105
61
282
108

9.6 vs. 17.6
7.6 vs. 8.8
11 vs. 11 vs. 13
10 vs. 9 vs. 8 vs. 9.5
6.5 vs. 6.5
7.2 vs. 4.8
8.4 vs. 9.7
11 vs. 10 vs. 9 vs. 7.5

p < 0.01
NS
NS
NS
NS
NS
NS
NS

69
70
71
65
72
73
74
75

a

Dose 3 or 9 MIU.
Abbreviations: B, BCNU (carmustine); C, cisplatin; D, dacarbazine; IFN, interferon α; IL2, interleukin-2; n, natural; NS, not significant; r, recombinant; T, tamoxifen; TMZ,
temozolomide; V, vinblastine.

Chapter 17:

Table 17.13

Malignant Melanoma

309

Randomized Trials with IL-2 or IL-2 + IFN Containing Regimens

Year (author)

Regimen

#Pts

Median survival
(months)

Significance

Ref.

1993 (Sparano et al.)
1997 (Keilholz et al.)
1998 (Johnston et al.)
1999 (Dorval et al.)
1999 (Rosenberg et al.)
2001 (Hauschild et al.)
2002 (Eton et al.)
2002 (Atzpodien et al.)
2002 (Agarwala et al.)
2002 (Ridolfi et al.)
2005 (Keilholz et al.)
2006 (Bajetta et al.)
2008 (Atkins et al.)

IL2 ± IFN
IL2/IFN ± C
CDBT ± IFN/IL2
C/IL2 ± IFN
CDT ± IFN/IL2
D/IFN ± IL2
CVD ± IFN/IL2
D/B/C/T ± IFN/IL2
IL2 ± Histamine
CVD ± IFN/IL2
CD/IFN ± IL2
CVD ± IFN/IL2
CVD ± IFN/IL2

85
133
65
117
102
290
183
124
305
176
363
139
416

10.2 vs. 9.7
9 vs. 9
5.5 vs. 5.0
10.4 vs. 10.9
15.8 vs. 10.7
11 vs. 11
9.2 vs. 11.9
13 vs. 12
9.1 vs. 8.2
9.5 vs. 11.0
9 vs. 9
12 vs. 11
8.7 vs. 8.4

NS
NS
NS
NS
p < 0.06
NS
p < 0.06
NS
NS
NS
NS
NS
NS

76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88

Abbreviations: B, BCNU (Carmustine); C, cisplatin; D, dacarbazine; IFN, interferon α; IL2, interleukin-2; n, natural; NS, not significant; r, recombinant; T, tamoxifen;
TMZ, temozolomide; V, vinblastine.

When given in combination with DTIC it improved
response rates and progression-free survival rate significantly. Survival was not significantly improved. It appeared
that all benefit occurred in the patient population with normal LDH levels, and the impact on survival was significant
in this population (two-third of the total population) (95).
A second pivotal trial is currently ongoing testing the same
regimen in patients with LDH <0.8 UNL. Another apoptosis inducing agent [by way of increasing radical oxygen
species (ROS)] is STA-4783 (Elesclomol). Synergy with
taxol in animal models and a positive double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled phase II trial comparing elesclomol + taxol with taxol alone has lead to the currently
ongoing pivotal phase III trial with the same design (96).
Another development regards sorafanib, a tyrosine kinase
inhibitor, B-Raf inhibitor, with important anti-VEGFR2mediated anti-angiogenic properties, which is currently
evaluated in combination with caboplatin/taxol in a 800patient phase III trial in first line (97). However, a rapid
smaller phase III trial in second line failed to demonstrate
a benefit for the same combination arm (98). In addition
pivotal phase III trials are being developed for a nanoparticle albumen-bound paclitaxel (abraxane) formulation that
has been approved for breast cancer (99) and for thymosin
α1, a T-cell immune response–enhancing molecule.
More complex, but of fundamental importance, is the
ongoing research how to utilize dendritic cells. Remarkable
results have been reported by Rosenberg’s group, with
chemotherapy-lymphodepletion followed by adoptive transfer of autologous tumor-reactive lymphocytes in highly
pretreated refractory melanoma patients. A response rate
of 49% in 43 patients has been reported and should provide
insight in what is crucial to obtain tumor regression in
melanoma patients. When total body irradiation (TBI) of
2 GY was added to the lymphodepletion conditioning protocol of the patients, a 52% response rate was observed in
25 patients and a 72% response rate in the next 25 patients
when a TBI of 12 GY was applied. Lymphodepletion conditioning of the patient seems to be the crucial element in
this approach, which allows for the effective 100 to 1000-fold

in vivo expansion of short-term in vitro expanded T-cell
cultures from tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (100).

CONCLUSIONS
There is no effective therapy for metastatic melanoma.
Polychemotherapy or chemoimmunotherapy have not demonstrated survival benefits. Vaccines have shown thus far
very little activity in stage IV disease. New drugs should
be offered in first line to intensify the quest to identify
effective agents. All efforts must be directed on science to
improve our understanding of the biology of malignant
melanoma. Too many wasteful phase III trials have been
conducted with poor understanding of the mechanism of
action of the involved drugs.

REFERENCES
1. http://seer.cancer.gov/statfacts/
2. Curado MP, Edwards B, Shin HR et al. eds. Cancer Incidence in Five Continents, vol. IX. IARC Scientific Publications No. 160. Lyon: IARC, 2007.
3. Karim-Kos HE, de Vries E, Soerjomataram I et al. Recent
trends of cancer in Europe: a combined approach of incidence, survival and mortality for 17 cancer sites since the
1990s. Eur J Cancer 2008; 44: 1345–89.
4. Elwood JM, Gallagher RP. Body site distribution of cutaneous malignant melanoma in relationship to patterns of sun
exposure. Int J Cancer 1998; 78: 276–80.
5. de Vries E, van de Poll-Franse LV, Louwman WJ et al. Predictions of skin cancer incidence in the Netherlands up to
2015. Br J Dermatol 2005; 152: 481–8.
6. Garbe C, Blum A. Epidemiology of cutaneous melanoma
in Germany and Worldwide. Skin Pharmacol Physiol 2001;
14: 280–90.
7. http://www.health.qld.gov.au/hic/qcr2005/1982_03_text.pdf
8. Pho L, Grossman D, Leachman SA. Melanoma genetics: a
review of genetic factors and clinical phenotypes in familial
melanoma. Curr Opin Oncol 2006; 18: 173–9.

310

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

9. Soufir N, Ollivaud L, Bertrand G et al. A French CDK4positive melanoma family with a co-inherited EDNRB mutation. J Dermatol Sci 2007; 46: 61–4.
10. Raimondi S, Sera F, Gandini S et al. MC1R variants, melanoma and red hair color phenotype: a meta-analysis. Int J
Cancer 2008; 122: 2753–60.
11. Box NF, Duffy DL, Chen W et al. MC1R genotype modifies
risk of melanoma in families segregating CDKN2A mutations.
Am J Hum Genet 2001; 69: 765–73.
12. Brown KM, Macgregor S, Montgomery GW et al. Common
sequence variants on 20q11.22 confer melanoma susceptibility. Nat Genet 2008; 40: 838–40.
13. Gudbjartsson DF, Sulem P, Stacey SN et al. ASIP and TYR
pigmentation variants associate with cutaneous melanoma
and basal cell carcinoma. Nat Genet 2008; 40: 886–91.
14. Curiel C, Gomex ML, Atkins T. Association between use of
non steroidal anti-inflammatories and of melanoma: a case
control study. J Clin Oncol Supplement 2007; 8500.
15. Whiteman DC, Watt P, Purdie DM et al. Melanocytic nevi,
solar keratoses, and divergent pathways to cutaneous melanoma. J Natl Cancer Inst 2003; 95: 806–12.
16. Thomas NE, Edmiston SH, Alexander A. Number of naevi
and early life ambient UV exposure are associated with B-RAF
mutant melanoma. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 2007;
16: 991–7.
17. International Agency for Research on Cancer Working Group
on artificial ultraviolet (UV) light and skin cancer. The association of use of sunbeds with cutaneous malignant melanoma and other skin cancers: a systematic review. Int J
Cancer 2007; 120: 1116–22.
18. Grob JJ, Bonerandi JJ. The “ugly duckling” sign: identification of the common characteristics of nevi in an individual
as a basis for melanoma screening. Arch Dermatol 1998; 134:
103–4.
19. Balch CM, Buzaid AC, Soong SJ et al. Final version of the
American Joint Committee on Cancer staging system for
cutaneous melanoma. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2006; 4:
666–84.
20. Eggermont AMM, Gore M. Randomised adjuvant trials
in melanoma: surgical and systemic. Semin Oncol 2007; 34:
509–15.
21. Gershenwald JE, Thompson W, Mansfield PF et al. Multiinstitutional melanoma lymphatic mapping experience: the
prognostic value of sentinel lymph node status in 612 stage
I or II melanoma patients. J Clin Oncol 1999; 17: 976–83.
22. Morton DL, Thompson JF, Cochran AJ et al. Sentinel-node
biopsy or nodal observation in melanoma. N Engl J Med
2006; 355: 1307–17.
23. van Akkooi AC, de Wilt JH, Verhoef C et al. Clinical relevance of melanoma micrometastases (<0.1 mm) in sentinel
nodes: are these nodes to be considered negative? Ann
Oncol 2006; 17: 1578–85.
24. Thomas JM. Prognostic false-positivity of the sentinel
node in melanoma [review]. Nat Clin Pract Oncol 2008;
5: 18–23.
25. Eggermont AMM. Reducing the need for sentinel node procedures by ultrasound examination of regional lymph nodes.
Ann Surg Oncol 2005; 12: 3–5.
26. Pawlik TM, Ross MI, Thompson JF et al. The risk of
in-transit metastasis depends on tumor biology and not the
surgical approach to regional lymph nodes. J Clin Oncol
2005; 23: 4588–90.
27. Grünhagen DJ, Brunstein F, Graveland WJ et al. One
hundred consecutive isolated limb perfusions with TNFalpha and melphalan in melanoma patients with multiple
in-transit metastases. Ann Surg 2004; 240: 939–47.
28. Thompson JF, Kam PC, Waugh RC et al. Isolated limb infusion with cytotoxic agents: simple alternative to isolated
limb perfusion. Semin Surg Oncol 1998; 14: 238–47.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

Testori A, Rutkowski P, Marsden J et al. Surgery and radiotherapy in the treatment of cutaneous melanoma. Ann Oncol
2008; in press.
Eggermont AM, Suciu S, Ruka W et al., EORTC melanoma
group. EORTC 18961: post-operative adjuvant ganglioside
GM2-KLH21 vaccination treatment vs observation in stage
II (T3-T4N0M0) melanoma: 2nd interim analysis led to
an early disclosure of the results. J Clin Oncol 2008:
26(Suppl): 9004.
Kirkwood JM, Ibrahim JG, Sosman JA et al. High-dose interferon alfa-2b significantly prolongs relapse-free and overall
survival compared with the GM2-KLH/QS-21 vaccine in
patients with resected stage IIB-III melanoma: results of
intergroup trial E1694/S9512/C509801. J Clin Oncol 2001;
19: 2370–80.
Morton D, Mozzillo N, Thompson J et al. An international,
randomised, phase III trial of BCG plus allogeneic melanoma vaccine (MCV) or placebo after complete resection
of melanoma metastatic to regional nodes or distant sites.
J Clin Oncol 2007; 25(Suppl): 8508.
Creagan ET, Dalton RJ, Ahmann DL et al. Randomized,
surgical adjuvant clinical trial of recombinant interferon
alfa-2a in selected patients with malignant melanoma. J Clin
Oncol 1995; 13: 2776–83.
Kirkwood JM, Strawderman MH, Ernstoff MS et al. Interferon alfa-2b adjuvant therapy of high-risk resected cutaneous melanoma: the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group
Trial EST 1684. J Clin Oncol 1996; 14: 7–17.
Kirkwood JM, Ibrahim JG, Sondak VK et al. High- and lowdose interferon alfa-2b in high-risk melanoma: first analysis
of intergroup trial E1690/S9111/C9190. J Clin Oncol 2000;
18: 2444–59.
McMasters KM, Ross MI, Reintgen DS et al. Final Results
of the Sunbelt Trial. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26(May 20 Suppl):
abstract 9003.
Gogas H, Dafni U, Bafaloukos D et al. A randomized phase
III trial of 1 month versus 1 year adjuvant high-dose interferon alfa-2b in patients with resected high risk melanoma.
J Clin Oncol 2007; 25: abstract 8505.
Eggermont AM, Suciu S, MacKie R et al. Post-surgery adjuvant therapy with intermediate doses of interferon alfa 2b
versus observation in patients with stage IIb/III melanoma
(EORTC 18952): randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2005;
366: 1189–96.
Hansson J, Aamdal S, Bastholt L et al. Results of the Nordic
randomized adjuvant trial of intermediate-doe interferon
alfa-2b in high-risk melanoma. Eur J Cancer Supplements
2007; 5: abstract 4.
Eggermont AM, Suciu S, Santinami M et al. Adjuvant
therapy with pegylated interferon alfa-2b versus observation alone in resected stage III melanoma: final results of
EORTC 18991, a randomised phase III trial. Lancet 2008; 372:
117–26.
Hauschild A, Volkenandt M, Tilgen W et al. Efficacy of
interferon alpha 2a in 18 versus 60 months of treatment in
patients with primary melanoma of >1.5 mm tumor thickness: A randomized phase III DeCOG trial. J Clin Oncol
2008; 26(May 20 Suppl): abstract 9032.
Grob JJ, Dreno B, de la Salmonière P et al. Randomised
trial of interferon alpha-2a as adjuvant therapy in resected
primary melanoma thicker than 1.5 mm without clinically
detectable node metastases. Lancet 1998; 351: 1905–10.
Pehamberger H, Soyer HP, Steiner A et al. Adjuvant interferon alfa-2a treatment in resected primary stage II cutaneous melanoma. Austrian Malignant Melanoma Cooperative
Group. J Clin Oncol 1998; 16: 1425–9.
Cameron DA, Cornbleet MC, Mackie RM et al. Adjuvant
interferon alpha 2b in high risk melanoma—the Scottish
study. Br J Cancer 2001; 84: 1146–9.

Chapter 17:
45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

59.

Hancock BW, Wheatley K, Harris S et al. Adjuvant interferon in high-risk melanoma: the AIM HIGH Study—United
Kingdom Coordinating Committee on Cancer Research randomized study of adjuvant low-dose extended-duration
interferon Alfa-2a in high-risk resected malignant melanoma.
J Clin Oncol 2004; 22: 53–61.
Cascinelli N, Belli F, MacKie RM et al. Effect of long-term
adjuvant therapy with interferon alpha-2a in patients with
regional node metastases from cutaneous melanoma: a randomised trial. Lancet 2001; 358: 866–9.
Garbe C, Radny P, Linse R et al. Adjuvant low-dose interferon alpha-2a with or without dacarbazine compared with
surgery alone: a prospective-randomized phase III DeCOG
trial in melanoma patients with regional lymph node metastasis. Ann Oncol 2008; 19: 1195–201.
Kleeberg UR, Suciu S, Bröcker EB et al. EORTC Melanoma
Group in cooperation with the German Cancer Society
(DKG). Final results of the EORTC 18871/DKG 80-1 randomised phase III trial. rIFN-alpha2b versus rIFN-gamma
versus ISCADOR M versus observation after surgery in
melanoma patients with either high-risk primary (thickness
>3 mm) or regional lymph node metastasis. Eur J Cancer
2004; 40(3): 390–402.
Mitchell MS, Abrams J, Thompson JA et al. Randomized
trial of an allogeneic melanoma lysate vaccine with low-dose
interferon Alfa-2b compared with high-dose interferon
Alfa-2b for resected stage III cutaneous melanoma. J Clin
Oncol 2007; 25: 2078–85.
Hauschild A, Weichenthal M, Balda BR et al. Prospective
randomized trial of interferon alfa-2b and interleukin-2 as
adjuvant treatment for resected intermediate- and high-risk
primary melanoma without clinically detectable node metastasis. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 2883–8.
Richtig E, Soyer HP, Posch M et al. Prospective, randomized,
multicenter, double-blind placebo-controlled trial comparing
adjuvant interferon alfa and isotretinoin with interferon alfa
alone in stage IIA and IIB melanoma: European Cooperative
Adjuvant Melanoma Treatment Study Group. J Clin Oncol
2005; 23: 8655–63.
Lens MB, Dawes M. Interferon alfa therapy for malignant
melanoma: a systematic review of randomized controlled
trials. J Clin Oncol 2002; 20: 1818–25.
Wheatley K, Ives N, Hancock B et al. Does adjuvant interferon-alpha for high-risk melanoma provide a worthwhile
benefit? A meta-analysis of the randomised trials. Cancer
Treat Rev 2003; 29: 241–52.
Kirkwood JM, Manola J, Ibrahim J et al. A pooled analysis
of eastern cooperative oncology group and intergroup trials
of adjuvant high-dose interferon for melanoma. Clin Cancer
Res 2004; 10: 1670–7.
Wheatley K, Ives N, Eggermont AM et al. Interferon-α
as adjuvant therapy for melanoma: An individual patient
data meta-analysis of randomised trials. J Clin Oncol 2007;
25(Suppl): abstract 8526.
Gogas H, Ioannovich J, Dafni U et al. Prognostic significance
of autoimmunity during treatment of melanoma with interferon. N Engl J Med 2006; 354: 709–18.
Bouwhuis M, Suciu S, Kruit W et al. Prognostic value of
autoantibodies (auto-AB) in melanoma patients (pts) in the
EORTC 18952 trial of adjuvant interferon (IFN) compared to
observation (obs). J Clin Oncol 2007; 25(Suppl): abstract 8507.
Bouwhuis M, Suciu S, Testori A et al. Prognostic value of
autoantibodies (auto-AB) in melanoma stage III patients in
the EORTC 18991 phase III randomized trial comparing
adjuvant pegylated interferon α2b (PEG-IFN) vs Observation. Eur J Cancer 2007; 5(Suppl): 11, abstract 13BA.
Eggermont AM, Kirkwood JM. Re-evaluating the role of
dacarbazine in metastatic melanoma: what have we learned
in 30 years? Eur J Cancer 2004; 40: 1825–36.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

65.

66.

67.

68.

69.

70.

71.

72.

73.

74.

75.

Malignant Melanoma

311

Jungnelius U, Ringborg U, Aamdal S et al. Dacarbazine–
vindesine versus dacarbazine–vindesine–cisplatin in disseminated malignant melanoma. A randomised phase III trial.
Eur J Cancer 1998; 34: 1368–74.
Jelić S, Babovic N, Kovcin V et al. Comparison of the efficacy
of two different dosage dacarbazine regimens and two
regimens without dacarbazine in metastatic melanoma: a
single-centre randomized four-arm study. Melanoma Res
2002; 12: 91–8.
Bafaloukos D, Tsoutsos D, Kalofonos H et al. Temozolomide
and cisplatin versus temozolomide in patients with advanced
melanoma: a randomized phase II study of the Hellenic
Cooperative Oncology Group. Ann Oncol 2005; 16: 950–7.
Cocconi G, Bella M, Calabresi F et al. Treatment of metastatic malignant melanoma with dacarbazine plus tamoxifen. N Engl J Med 1992; 327: 516–23.
Rusthoven JJ, Quirt IC, Iscoe NA et al. Randomized, doubleblind, placebo-controlled trial comparing the response rates
of carmustine, dacarbazine, and cisplatin with and without
tamoxifen in patients with metastatic melanoma. National
Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group. J Clin
Oncol 1996; 14: 2083–90.
Falkson CI, Ibrahim J, Kirkwood JM et al. Phase III trial of
Dacarbazine versus Dacarbazide with Interferon Alpha2b
versus Dacarbazide with Tamoxifen versus Dacarbazide
with Interferon Alpha2b with Tamoxifen in patients with
metastatic malignant melanoma: an Eastern Cooperative
Oncology Study. J Clin Oncol 1998; 16: 1743–51.
Agarwala SS, Ferri W, Gooding W et al. A phase III randomized trial of dacarbazine and carboplatin with and without
tamoxifen in the treatment of patients with metastatic melanoma. Cancer 1999; 85: 1979–84.
Creagan ET, Suman VJ, Dalton RJ et al. Phase III clinical
trial of the combination of cisplatin, dacarbazine and carmustine with or without tamoxifen in patients with advanced
malignant melanoma. J Clin Oncol 1999; 17: 1884–90.
Chapman PB, Einhorn LH, Meyers ML et al. Phase III multicenter randomized trial of the Dartmouth regimen versus
dacarbazine in patients with metastatic melanoma. J Clin
Oncol 1999; 17: 2745–51.
Falkson CI, Falkson G, Falkson HC. Improved results with
the addition of interferon alfa-2b to dacarbazine in the treatment of patients with metastatic malignant melanoma. J Clin
Oncol 1991; 9: 1403–8.
Thomson DB, Adena M, McLeod GRC et al. Interferon-alpha
2a does not improve response or survival when combined
with dacarbazide in metastatic malignant melanoma: results
of a multi-institutional Australian randomized trial. Melanoma Res 1993; 3: 133–8.
Bajetta E, Di Leo A, Zampino MG et al. Multicenter randomized trial of dacarbazine alone or in combination with two
different doses and schedules of interferon alfa-2a in the treatment of advanced melanoma. J Clin Oncol 1994; 12: 806–11.
Middleton MR, Lorigan P, Owen J et al. A randomized
phase III study comparing dacarbazine, BCNU, cisplatin and
tamoxifen with dacarbazine and interferon in advanced
melanoma. Br J Cancer 2000; 82: 1158–62.
Young AM, Marsden J, Goodman A et al. Prospective randomized comparison of dacarbazine (DTIC) versus DTIC
plus interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) in metastatic melanoma.
Clin Oncol 2001; 13: 458–65.
Kaufmann R, Spieth K, Leiter U et al. Temozolomide in
combination with interferon-alfa versus temozolomide alone
in patients with advanced metastatic melanoma: a randomized, phase III, multicenter study from the Dermatologic
Cooperative Oncology Group. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 9001–7.
Vuoristo MS, Hahka-Kemppinen M, Parvinen LM et al. Randomized trial of dacarbazine versus bleomycin, vincristine,
lomustine and dacarbazine (BOLD) chemotherapy combined

312

76.

77.

78.

79.

80.

81.

82.

83.

84.

85.

86.

87.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
with natural or recombinant interferon-alpha in patients with
advanced melanoma. Melanoma Res 2005; 15: 291–6.
Sparano JA, Fisher RI, Sunderland M et al. Randomized
phase III trial of treatment with high-dose interleukin-2 either
alone or in combination with interferon alfa-2a in patients
with advanced melanoma. J Clin Oncol 1993; 11: 1969–77.
Keilholz U, Goey SH, Punt CJ et al. Interferon alfa-2a and
interleukin-2 with or without cisplatin in metastatic melanoma: a randomized trial of the European Organization for
Research and Treatment of Cancer Melanoma Cooperative
Group. J Clin Oncol 1997; 7: 2579–88.
Johnston SR, Constenla DO, Moore J et al. Randomized
phase II trial of BCDT [carmustine (BCNU), cisplatin, dacarbazine (DTIC) and tamoxifen] with or without interferon
alpha (IFN-alpha) and interleukin (IL-2) in patients with
metastatic melanoma. Br J Cancer 1998; 77: 1280–6.
Dorval T, Negrier S, Chevreau C et al. Randomized trial of
treatment with cisplatin and interleukin-2 either alone or in
combination with interferon-alpha-2a in patients with metastatic melanoma: a Federation Nationale des Centres de
Lutte Contre le Cancer Multicenter, parallel study. Cancer
1999; 85: 1060–6.
Rosenberg SA, Yang JC, Schwartzentruber DJ et al. Prospective randomized trial of the treatment of patients with
metastatic melanoma using chemotherapy with cisplatin,
dacarbazine, and tamoxifen alone or in combination with
interleukin-2 and interferon alfa-2b. J Clin Oncol 1999; 17:
968–75.
Hauschild A, Garbe C, Stolz W et al. Dacarbazine and interferon alpha with or without interleukin 2 in metastatic
melanoma: a randomized phase III multicentre trial of the
Dermatologic Cooperative Oncology Group (DeCOG). Br J
Cancer 2001; 84: 1036–42.
Eton O, Legha SS, Bedikian AY et al. Sequential biochemotherapy versus chemotherapy for metastatic melanoma:
results from a phase III randomized trial. J Clin Oncol 2002;
20: 2045–52.
Atzpodien J, Neuber K, Kamanabroe D et al. Combination
chemotherapy with or without s.c. IL-2 and IFN-alpha:
results of a prospectively randomized trial of the Cooperative Advanced Malignant Melanoma Chemoimmunotherapy
group (ACIMM). Br J Cancer 2002; 86: 179–84.
Agarwala SA, Glaspy J, O’Day SJ et al. Results from a randomized phase III study comparing combined treatment
with histamine dihydrochloride plus interleukin-2 versus
interleukin-2 alone in patients with metastatic melanoma.
J ClinOncol 2002; 20: 125–33.
Ridolfi R, Chiarion-Sileni V, Guida M et al. Cisplatin, Dacarbazine with or without subcutaneous interleukin-2 and
interferon alfa-2b in advanced melanoma outpatients: results
from an Italian multicenter phase III randomized clinical
trial. J Clin Oncol 2002; 20: 1600–7.
Keilholz U, Punt CJ, Gore M et al. Dacarbazine, cisplatin,
and interferon-alfa-2b with or without interleukin-2 in
metastatic melanoma: a randomized phase III trial (18951)
of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of
Cancer Melanoma Group. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 6747–55.
Bajetta E, Del Vecchio M, Nova P et al. Multicenter phase
III randomized trial of polychemotherapy (CVD regimen)

88.

89.

90.
91.

92.

93.

94.

95.

96.

97.

98.

99.

100.

versus the same chemotherapy (CT) plus subcutaneous
interleukin-2 and interferon-alpha2b in metastatic melanoma.
Ann Oncol 2006; 17: 571–7.
Atkins MB, Lee S, Flaherty LE et al. A prospective randomized phase III trial of concurrent biochemotherapy (BCT)
with cisplatin, vinblastine, dacarbazine (CVD), IL-2 and
interferon alpha-2b (IFN) versus CVD alone in patients with
metastatic melanoma (E3695): An ECOG-coordinated intergroup trial. J Clin Oncol; in press.
Patel PM, Suciu S, Mortier L et al. Extended schedule, escalated dose Temozolomide versus Dacarbazine in stage IV
malignant melanoma: final results of the randomized phase
III study (EORTC 18032). Ann Oncol 2008; 19(Suppl 8): viii3
(Abstract LBA8).
Rosenberg SA, Yang JC, Restifo NP. Cancer-immunotherapy:
moving beyond current vaccines. Nat Med 2004; 10: 909–15.
Schadendorf D, Ugurel S, Schuler-Thurner B et al. Dacarbazine (DTIC) versus vaccination with autologous peptidepulsed dendritic cells (DC) in first-line treatment of patients
with metastatic melanoma: a randomized phase III trial of
the DC study group of the DeCOG. Ann Oncol 2006; 17:
563–70.
Sosman JA, Carrillo C, Urba WJ et al. Three phase II cytokine
working group trials of gp100 (210M) peptide plus high-dose
interleukin-2 in patients with HLA-A2-positive advanced
melanoma. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 2292–8.
Weber J. Review: anti-CTLA-4 antibody ipilimumab: case
studies of clinical response and immune-related adverse
events [review]. Oncologist 2007; 12: 864–72.
Ribas A, Hauschild A, Kefford R et al. Phase III, open-label,
randomized, comparative study of tremelimumab (CP-675,206)
and chemotherapy [temozolomide (TMZ) or dacarbazine
(DTIC)] in patients with advanced melanoma. J Clin Oncol
2008; 26(May 20 Suppl): abstract LBA9011.
Bedikian AY, Millward M, Pehamberger H et al. Oblimersen
Melanoma Study Group. Bcl-2 antisense (oblimersen sodium)
plus dacarbazine in patients with advanced melanoma: the
Oblimersen Melanoma Study Group. J Clin Oncol 2006; 24:
4738–45.
Gonzalez R, Lawson DH, Weber RW et al. Phase II trial of
elesclomol (formerly STA-4783) and paclitaxel in stage IV
metastatic melanoma (MM): subgroup analysis by prior
chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: abstract 9036.
Flaherty KT. Chemotherapy and targeted therapy combinations in advanced melanoma. Clin Cancer Res 2006; 12:
2366s–70s.
Hauschild A, Agarwala SS, Trefzer U et al. Phase III randomized, placebo-controlled study of Sorafenib in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel in second-line treatment
in patients with unresectable stage III or stage IV melanoma.
J Clin Oncol 2008; in press.
Gradishar WJ, Tjulandin S, Davidson N et al. Phase III trial
of nanoparticle albumin-bound paclitaxelcompared with polyethylated castor oil-based paclitaxel in women with breast
cancer. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23: 7794–803.
Dudley ME, Yang JC, Sherry R et al. Adoptive cell therapy
for patients with metastatic melanoma: Evaluation of intensive myeloablative chemoradiation preparative regimens.
J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 5233–9.

18
1
Cancer of Unknown Primary Site
Gedske Daugaard, Anne Kirstine Møller, and Bodil Laub Petersen

of origin of the tumor, and this could be an important tool
in the treatment of CUP in the future.

In about 5% of all cancer patients, the primary origin of
the tumor cannot be identified. Cancer of unknown primary
site (CUP) ranks among the 10 most common malignancies and constitutes a heterogeneous clinical entity with
regression of the primary tumor, development of early,
uncommon, systemic metastases, and usually a poor prognosis. The biology of the disease is unknown, and it is not
clear if CUP represents a distinct entity with specific
genetic/phenotypic aberrations (1). The primary tumor is
rarely identified in the period of subsequent follow-up, and
less than 30% of patients have a primary site identified
ante-mortem. Postmortem examination reveals a putative
primary site in 60% to 80% of all patients.
Patients with CUP often undergo an extensive diagnostic workup using advanced immunohistochemical and
imaging techniques for identifying the primary tumor site.
In recent years, significant advances have occurred almost
exclusively regarding the identification of subsets of patients
who have clinical and pathologic features that require
specific treatment strategies, which may translate into prolonged survival (2). Unfortunately, the majority of patients
with CUP (approximately 85%) are not included in those
favorable patient subsets, for whom diagnostic and therapeutic strategies are less obvious. Therefore, time-consuming
and prolonged search often delays the initiation of treatment.
Failure to identify the primary tumor might influence
patient management, as tailored chemotherapeutic regimens
and targeted agents for a number of solid tumors have
increasingly been developed over the last decade.
Decisions confronting clinicians include which and
how many investigations should be used to determine the
primary site, and what the most cost-effective investigations
are and which is the appropriate treatment.
The range of therapeutic options for patients with
metastatic cancer continues to increase, and treatment decisions are based on tumor type, response rates, quality of
life considerations, and survival data. Although the treatment outcomes of lymphoma and germ-cell tumors are
clearly the most rewarding, effective treatment for several
forms of carcinoma is now available and should be applied
in appropriate settings.
Profiling of multiple gene expression in tumors is now
possible because of the development of high-throughput
DNA microarray platforms. Some molecular biology data
suggest that each tumor maintains at least the basic genetic
signature of the tissue of origin throughout clonal evolution
and metastatic dissemination. Gene expression profiling
may therefore enable an accurate identification of the site

CLINICAL INVESTIGATIONS
All patients should have a careful history taken and
undergo a complete physical examination including head
and neck, pelvic, and rectal examination, routine laboratory
evaluation (blood counts and chemistry profile), urine
analysis, and fecal occult blood test, although routine laboratory evaluation seldom shows any characteristic abnormalities in this group of patients (2,3). Specific investigations
according to the site of lymph node metastases are described
later in this chapter.

Radiological Studies
Using CT scans of the abdomen and pelvis, a primary
tumor can be detected in 30% to 35% of patients. A CT
scan of the thorax is also relevant in CUP patients, because
lung cancer is one of the most common primary tumors
identified in patients with CUP (1). In addition, CT scans
can also be helpful in determining the extent of metastatic
disease. CT scan of thorax, abdomen, and pelvis therefore constitutes the standard evaluation recommended in
patients with CUP (3).
Endoscopic examinations should be performed only
in patients with specific symptoms or signs. For example,
patients with abdominal symptoms or occult blood in
the stool should undergo endoscopic examination of the
gastrointestinal tract (2,3).
Several studies have investigated position emission
tomography (PET) using 18F-fluorodeoxy-glucose (18F-FDG
PET) as a diagnostic tool in patients with CUP, particularly
in patients with cervical lymph node metastases. Rusthoven
et al. (4) and Seve et al. (5) have recently reviewed the
literature of 18F-FDG PET studies in CUP patients with
cervical lymph node metastases and extracervical metastases, respectively. 18F-FDG PET revealed a primary tumor,
undetected by other modalities, in approximately 25% to
40% of patients and detected additional metastases in 27%
to 37% (4,5). The majority of the studies were retrospective,
and patients analyzed were few (9–47 patients with extracervical metastases). In addition, the patient selection, histology, and additional radiological diagnostic procedures
varied highly between the reviewed studies (5). Despite
these limitations, 18F-FDG PET is recommended as an additional diagnostic tool to conventional workup in patients

313

314

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

Carcinoma with unknown primary site

PSA (in case of
male patient)
PSA (+) prostate

PSA (–) then TTF-1

TTF-1 (+) lung,
thyroid (ovary)

TTF-1 (–) then
GCDFP-15
GCDFP-15 (+)
then CDX2
CDX2 (+) colon
CDX2 (–) breast

GCDFP-15 (–) then
CDX2/CK20
CDX2/CK20 (+)
CK7 (+) stomach or
pancreas/bile ducts
CK7 (–) colon
CDX2/CK20 (–)
ER/PgR (+)
CA125 (+) ovary
CA125 (–) breast
ER/PgR (–)
CA125/CK17 (+)
pancreas/bile ducts

Figure 18.1 A diagnostic “decision tree” for carcinomas classified as CUP (identifiable germinal cell tumors, lymphomas, sarcomas, and primary
hepatic carcinomas excluded). Applied markers are PSA (prostate specific antigen), TTF-1 (primarily lung), GCDFP-15 (breast), CDX2 (gastrointestinal
tract), CK7, CK17 and CK20 (different expression in different epithelia), ER, PgR (hormone receptors), CA125 (certain types of adenocarcinoma). Based
on data from Chu et al. (2005), Dennis et al. (2005), Park et al. (2007).

with CUP (6). In particular, it may be helpful in localizing
head and neck tumors in CUP patients with cervical lymph
node metastases. However, larger prospective studies are
needed with more uniform inclusion criteria to evaluate
the extent to which this investigation helps in the diagnosis of a primary tumor.
Recent papers have focused on the diagnostic value
of combined 18F-FDG PET/CT in patients with CUP. Most of

the studies are retrospective and the sample size is small
(range 21–68 patients). 18F-FDG PET/CT has detected a
primary tumor in 33% to 68% of the patients (7–11). 18F-FDG
PET/CT studies have been conducted in CUP patients only
with cervical lymph node metastases (9,11), but in the
majority of the studies, there was a high heterogeneity
regarding patient selection, histology, and diagnostic
workup (7,8,10). Larger prospective studies are needed to

Chapter 18:

evaluate the value of 18F-FDG PET/CT in patients with
CUP, especially in patients belonging to the unfavorable
subset (adenocarcinoma/carcinoma and multiple metastases),
which constitutes the majority of CUP patients. 18F-FDG
PET/CT may help in guiding investigations early in the
course; however, this also needs prospective evaluation.

Serological Tumor Markers
The use of serum tumor markers in the primary diagnostic
work-up of cancer of unknown primary is limited, because
of the lack of specificity and sensitivity. Some exceptions
exist, though, and the measurement of PSA, AFP, and betaHCG in male patients with CUP is recommended to
exclude treatable extragonadal germ-cell tumors and metastatic prostate cancer (1,3). In female patients with pelvic
tumors, the measurement of both CA125 and CEA can be
very useful in helping to identify the primary site.
Other markers can be applied as an adjunct to monitoring response to therapy and detect recurrence. Biomarkers
often used in this setting are PSA, AFP, beta-HCG, CA 125,
CA 15-3, CA 19-9, and CEA. Few studies have examined
serological tumor markers in patients with CUP. With the
exception of AFP, the tumor markers (CEA, CA 19-9, CA
15-3, CA 125, and beta-HCG) were elevated in most of the
patients. None of the markers were found to have a predictive value for response to chemotherapy or survival (12,13).
These data suggest that patients with CUP have a nonspecific overexpression of serum tumor markers. Once the
measurement of tumor markers has been utilized in the
initial diagnostic workup and exclusion of an established
primary site, subsequent routine use of most tumor markers
does not offer any significant diagnostic, prognostic, or
predictive value in these patients.

Pathological Studies
Histology and Immunohistochemistry
Pathologic evaluation has been reported to be the most
specific and cost-effective method to determine type and
origin of CUP. The overall dominant morphological pattern
of CUP is adenocarcinoma (50–70%), followed by poorly
differentiated carcinoma (15–20%), squamous cell carcinoma,
undifferentiated malignant tumor, and neuroendocrine carcinoma (each 5%). The major problem is to distinguish
between different specific types of adenocarcinomas and
undifferentiated carcinomas.
The primary site of metastatic adenocarcinoma is
most frequently the breast, colon, lung, ovary, pancreas,
prostate, and stomach, with a high representation of lung
and pancreatic tumors (1).
Addition of immunohistochemistry to morphology
using a limited panel of antibodies increases detection rate
of primary site from 26% using morphology alone to 67%
(14). The first step is to subdivide into differentiation subgroups (carcinoma, sarcoma, germ-cell tumor, lymphoma/
leukemia, and melanoma). After primary subgrouping, a
further identification can be attempted using other more
specific markers (Fig. 18.1).
The primary antibody panel should combine the
detection of site-specific antigens with the expression pattern of mucin antigens and intermediary filaments and in
selected cases supplemented with markers of targeted
therapy such as HER2.

Cancer of Unknown Primary Site

315

Site-Specific Antigens, Intermediary Filaments,
and Mucins
Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is highly sensitive and
specific for prostate cancer. PSA can be positive in the
seminal vesicles, and weak positive reactions can be seen
in pancreatic and salivary adenocarcinomas. Monoclonal
PSA can be negative in high-grade tumors.
Thyroid transcription factor (TTF)-1 is found in
pneumocytes and thyroid follicular epithelial cells.
TTF-1 staining is not specific for lung but has been reported
in neuroendocrine tumors, gastrointestinal, and ovarian
cancer (15,16).
Gross cystic disease fluid protein (GCDFP)-15 is
expressed in breast carcinomas, but also in carcinoma of
salivary glands, colon, sweat glands, and prostate. This
protein is considered a relatively specific marker for breast
carcinoma although with a low sensitivity (17).
Estrogen and progesterone receptors (ER/PgR) are
present in carcinomas of breast, ovary, and endometrium,
but it is not specific for these sites, since especially ER
can be demonstrated in carcinomas of lung, stomach, and
thyroid (14).
Uroplakin III is a marker for urothelial cells with a
high specificity and a moderate sensitivity for detection of
primary and metastatic urothelial tumors (18).
CDX2 is an intestine-specific transcription factor
and is expressed in the nuclei of normal colorectal tissue,
colorectal adenocarcinoma, and mucinous types of adenocarcinomas of ovarian and lung origin in a homogeneous
pattern (>75% tumor cell nuclei positive) (19).
Mucin antigens (MUCs). Mucins are high-molecularweight glycoproteins synthesized by a broad range of epithelial tissues and designated MUCs. The expression pattern
of MUC1, MUC2, and MUC5ac combined with the expression of CDX2 and CK17 is especially useful in distinguishing
between pancreatic and gastrointestinal carcinomas (20).
Cytokeratins. CK7 and CK20, intermediary filaments
present in epithelial cells, are the most widely examined
antigens in the cytokeratin group comprising approximately 20 proteins. The differential expression pattern of
these two cytokeratins can predict the site of primary
tumor (21). For instance, CK7 positivity and CK20 negativity favors gynecological over gastrointestinal primary
tumors, although exceptions exist. CK17 can be used to
distinguish between pancreatic/biliary, esophageal, and GI
carcinoma. The coexpression of CK7, CK17, MUC1, and
MUC5ac is unique for pancreatobiliary tumors (22). CK5
is expressed in squamous cell carcinomas.

Markers of Targeted Therapy
The overexpression/amplification of HER2/neu is associated with a poor prognosis and shortened overall survival in patients with breast cancer (23). In CUP patients,
HER2 overexpression has been reported in 4% to 35% of
specimens examined. No correlation with clinicopathologic parameters and outcome between patients with overexpressing and nonoverexpressing HER2 tumors has been
observed (23,24).
The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR or
HER-1) is involved in the growth, differentiation, and proliferation of cancer cells. One-third to 80% of all solid

316

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

tumors express EGFR (23). Three groups of investigators
have evaluated the EGFR protein expression by immunohistochemistry in patients with CUP. EGFR was expressed
in the majority of the tumors (66–75%), and EGFR overexpression was seen in 12% to 61% of the tumors (23–25).
Massard et al. showed a correlation between EGFR expression and response to cisplatin-based chemotherapy (RRs
were 50% and 22% in patients with EGFR-positive and
EGFR-negative tumors, respectively) (24). Dova et al. studied EGFR gene mutations and amplification of exons 18,
19, and 21 in 50 CUP patients. They did not find any mutations or amplifications in these patients (25). A possible
relationship between EGFR gene copy number, response to
EGFR inhibitors, and survival has not yet been established
in patients with CUP.
Tumor growth and metastasis is dependent on the
recruitment of new blood vessels, i.e., angiogenesis. Angiogenesis is regulated by a diverse group of endogenous
pro-angiogenic and anti-angiogenic factors. Of the identified
angiogenic factors, VEGF is the most potent and specific
and has been identified as a crucial regulator of both normal and pathologic angiogenesis. VEGF is overexpressed
in many solid tumors and is frequently correlated with
greater microvessel density (MVD), advanced disease stage,
and poor survival (23).
The expression of VEGF in CUP patients was observed
in 39% to 100%, and VEGF overexpression was seen in
26% to 83% of the tumors (23). Karavasilis et al. found a
strong correlation between VEGF expression and MVD,
and a high MVD score was seen more often in the unfavorable subset of CUP patients (26). Hillen et al. found that
high MVD score was correlated to a shorter survival (27).
In more recent studies, MVD and VEGF were not associated
to any clinicopathological parameters (23).
Overexpression of c-Kit in CUP has been reported
in 4% to 13% of the tumors examined but the expression
was not correlated to any patient characteristics (23,24,28),
and mutation in exon 11 of the KIT gene has not been
observed (28).
In summary, the potential usefulness of these
target proteins in CUP is at present not sufficiently
documented (29).

Oncogenes and Tumor Suppressor Genes
Bcl2 and p53 are well-known proteins expressed in most
cancer types. The bcl2 protein promotes tumor growth by
inhibition of apoptosis. Briasoulis and colleagues (30)
examined the expression of bcl2 in 47 samples of CUP and
found bcl2 to be overexpressed in 40% of the tumors.
However, this had no correlation to prognosis.
The tumor suppressor gene p53 is mutated in
approximately 55% of all human cancers. Bar-Eli et al. (31)
found by molecular methods that the frequency of p53
mutations in CUP was rather low (26%), suggesting that
p53 mutations play a minor role in the development and
progression of this tumor type. However, Briasoulis and
colleagues employing immunohistochemistry found an
overexpression of p53 in 53% of 47 samples of tumors of
unknown primary (30).
It is very important that the results from immunohistochemistry are interpreted with caution. The differences in the expression of antigens in the different studies

may in part be explained by the heterogeneity and small
number of patients studied. The lack of standardized
immunohistochemical methodology (antibody used, antigen retrieval, and scoring system) also contributes to the
discrepant results (23).

Microarray Technology
Cancer is a genetic disease, propagated by acquisition of
somatic mutations as well as inherited germline mutations.
Gene-expression profiling through DNA microarray technology now allows the simultaneous measurement of the
expression of thousands of genes in cancer cells (see chap. 1).
This can be used to identify genetic changes relevant for
(i) tumor growth and metastasis, (ii) anatomical origin, (iii)
new therapeutic targets, and (iv) cancer subtype classification, which may help to predict response to treatment and
prognosis (32).
Gene expression classifiers have been created to
distinguish various solid tumors. Pentheroudakis and
colleagues have reviewed the literature of published articles and conference abstracts regarding the classification of
known primary tumors and their metastases as well as the
identification of the primary site of CUP by DNA microarray technology (33). Thirteen reports have been published
in the last five years. Different platforms and different
complex mathematical modeling approaches have been
used to identify a set of genes that could distinguish solid
tumors of different origins—tissue specific genes (ranging
from 10 to 16063 genes). The accuracy of predicting the
anatomical site of origin in blinded experiments was 78%
to 89% for known primary tumors (33) and for the corresponding metastases 73% to 87% (33,34). The latter data
imply that metastatic lesions retain some of the molecular
features of the primary tumor.
In patients with CUP, DNA microarray was able to
suggest a primary site in 61% to 85% of the patients
(33,35–37). The suggestions of primary sites were compared
with clinicopathological characteristics of the patients.
Pentheroudakis et al. also compared the relative incidence
of primary tumors identified by autopsy and assigned
by DNA microarray. Lung (27%) and pancreatic cancer
(24%) constituted more than 50% of the primary tumors
indicated at autopsy, with liver/bile duct (8%), kidney/
adrenals (8%), tumors in the bowel (7%), and in the
genital tract (7%). A primary tumor was identified in less
than 1% of the cases in the bladder and breast. On the
other hand, the most common cancers assigned by DNA
microarray were breast (15%), pancreas (12.5%), bowel
(12%), lung (11.5%), genital system (9%), and liver/bile
duct (8%) (33). The explanations of the discrepancy of the
relative incidence of known primary tumors found by
these two modalities are many. First, the number of
microarray studies conducted in patients with CUP is
low and mostly originates from conference abstracts (four
out of seven studies). Second, the patient number in these
studies is small ranging from 11 to 76 patients (total
229 patients). Third, CUP is a heterogeneous group of
cancer, and it is not known whether all studies have used
the same definition of CUP. Fourth, the relative incidence
of primary tumors assigned by microarray technology is
derived primarily from one group, in which the exact
patient number is unknown (33). However, even the

Chapter 18:

diagnosis made at autopsy must also be considered a
qualified guess.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short, typically 22 nucleotides long noncoding RNAs capable of regulating gene
expression at both transcription and at translation level.
Each miRNA might regulate 200 genes. miRNAs have
critical functions across various biological processes like
cell differentiation, apoptosis, and in oncogenesis. It has
been recently shown that miRNA expression profiles can
classify human cancers with a high accuracy (89%) based
on only 48 miRNAs (38). In a small group of poorly differentiated tumors, the miRNA classifiers were able to
identify the primary origin (38).
Data on molecular identification of primary tumors in
metastatic malignancies from known and unknown primary
tumors by microarray technology are neither mature nor
abundant, but are slowly accumulating. Further studies are
needed to explore the biological characteristics of CUP and
establish whether this group of tumors shares unique genetic
and/or phenotypic anomalies. DNA microarray and miRNA
profiles may become important diagnostic tools in CUP
patients. In addition, these techniques may reveal new therapeutic targets and may be useful in prediction of response
to therapy and prognosis.

PROGNOSTIC FACTORS
A few retrospective studies have evaluated prognostic
factors in CUP patients, including sex, age, performance
status, degree of weight loss, serum albumin level, liver
metastases, and number of metastatic sites (39–41).
In a multivariate analysis, Seve et al. (41) found that
liver metastases and serum albumin level were the most
important prognostic factors. A group of good-risk patients
(no liver metastasis and normal serum albumin levels) and
a group of poor-risk patients (liver metastasis and/or low
serum albumin levels) were identified with median survivals of 371 and 103 days, respectively (p < 0.0001). This
classification has been validated further in an independent
data set.
Culine and colleages (39) have developed another
simple prognostic model using performance status and
serum LDH levels. In patients with increased LDH and
PS > 2, treatment outcome was poor. In a model by Ponce
et al. (40), patients with liver metastases and a performance >2 had an overall survival of 1.9 months. Poor
performance status is generally related to short survival
in CUP patients.

TREATMENT ACCORDING TO
LOCALIZATION/HISTOLOGY
Cervical Lymphadenopathy
Cervical lymph node metastases of squamous cell carcinoma
from an unknown primary site constitute about 2% to 5%
of all CUP patients. During treatment and follow-up the
primary is identified in 10% to 30% of all cases (42,43). The
most common occult primary sites include the oropharynx,
oral cavity, and hypopharynx.
In patients with cervical adenopathy, a careful physical and fiber-optic endoscopy examination of the entire

Cancer of Unknown Primary Site

317

head and neck region is critical. Biopsies should be performed from all suspicious sites and include a tonsillectomy since up to 25% of primary tumors can be detected
in this site (44).
The ability to find an occult primary site is improved
with the use of CT, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or
18
F-FDG-PET (45) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) serology. In
a prospective study, 18F-FDG-PET indicated a primary tumor
or metastatic sites in 30 of 60 patients. Primary tumor was
confirmed in 18 of which 12 were located in the head and
neck region (45). A therapeutic change of treatment was
made in 25% as a consequence of 18F-FDG-PET.
The treatment for squamous cell carcinoma of an
unknown primary is still very controversial. The published
studies are retrospective and include different treatment
modalities like neck dissection, radiotherapy, chemoradiotherapy, or combination of these three modalities (42,46).
In most cases, radiotherapy includes both sides of the neck
and mucosal areas (46). Neck dissection alone has often been
used in patients with N1 disease and combined treatment
in more advanced disease.
The five-year disease-specific survival is between
50% to 80% (42,43,46). Macroscopic extracapsular spread is
often a significant adverse prognostic factor together with
the nodal stage (43).

Axillary Adenopathy
Occult primary breast cancer represents less than 1% of
breast cancer. In women presenting with an axillary mass,
clinical and radiological examinations should focus on the
breast, and pathology evaluation should include measurement of estrogen and progesterone receptors and HER2
status. In patients with normal breast examination and
mammography, MRI should be performed, since this technique can help identifying an occult primary breast cancer.
Buchanan et al. (47) found a primary breast tumor in
around half of the patients with axillary adenopathy, and
no distant metastases by using MRI. All of these patients
had negative results for mammography and ultrasound
examination.
The management of patients with an occult breast
cancer remains controversial. Only retrospective data are
available (47,48). Most of these support an active treatment
of the breast by either radiotherapy or mastectomy and
that treatment should be identical to patients with breast
cancer with similar nodal stage.
In the study by Buchanan (47), 72% of the patients
were alive and without disease after four years.

Poorly Differentiated Carcinoma of Midline Structures
The terms “atypical teratoma” or “extragonadal germ-cell
syndrome” have been used to describe carcinomas of
unknown primary site, which have features reminiscent of
gonadal germ-cell tumors. They predominantly occur in
young males, frequently with pulmonary or lymph node
metastases, and germ-cell markers such as alpha-fetoprotein
and beta-HCG may be detected in serum or tissue sections.
In this group of patients, complete response and long-term
survival has been obtained by the use of regimens effective in the therapy of germ-cell tumors (49). In a series of
220 patients with undifferentiated carcinomas or poorly

318

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

differentiated adenocarcinomas receiving cisplatin-based
chemotherapy, 58 patients (26%) had complete response
(49). Most of these patients did not have other clinical
features of extragonadal germ-cell tumors. In the group of
42 patients with predominant tumor location in the retroperitoneum, results of treatment were considerably better
(50% complete response rate), but only 14% long-term
survivors (49) suggesting that some of the responsive
patients in this group have histologically unrecognizable
extragonadal germ-cell tumors.
If extragonadal germ-cell tumor remains a possible
diagnosis, treatment with cisplatin-based chemotherapy is
indicated.
Today, most patients with germ-cell tumors will be
identified because of the progress in immunohistochemistry,
and the majority of patients with increased tumor markers
are probably not true germ-cell tumors, because carcinomas may also occasionally secrete germ-cell markers, and
there could be alternative primary sites, e.g., the lung
(“large cell carcinoma”) and pancreas. This is supported
by the study of Currow et al. (50) investigating 15 patients
with increased markers. Not all were fit for treatment, and
only one patient obtained complete remission.
In older patients (>60 years) with midline lymph
node metastases, the response rate is 30% on platinum
based chemotherapy, with a median overall survival of
10 months (51).

Neuroendocrine Tumors
In 10% to 15% of poorly differentiated carcinomas pathological examinations will identify neuro-endocrine features
(49). The dominant site of tumor is often retroperitoneum,
lymph nodes or mediastinum, but several other sites can
also be seen. A broad spectrum of neuroendocrine neoplasia
is now recognized. They can be divided into low-grade
neuroendocrine tumors like carcinoid tumors, islet cell
tumors, paragangliomas, and pheochromocytomas. A second
group is the small cell carcinomas, and the third group
includes the poorly differentiated neuroendocrine tumors.
In the first group, treatment will depend on the clinical
situation and consists of either local or systemic treatment
or both. The second group of patients should be treated with
combination regimens effective in the treatment of small
cell lung cancer. In a study including 43 patients from the
third group, a response rate of 77% were obtained with
platinum-based chemotherapy and 18% remained continuously disease-free after two years (49). More recently, novel
anti-angiogenic agents are showing promise in patients
with neuroendocrine tumors, and further evaluation of this
approach is appropriate.

Ascites in Female Patients with Metastatic Carcinoma
of Unknown Primary
A presentation that merits particular attention is that of
malignant ascites in middle-aged or elderly women in
whom no primary site can be identified. Careful review of
both cytology and cell block preparations of the ascites for
any resemblance to an ovarian primary should be undertaken. The identification of the presence of a papillary
pattern in histological specimens is most helpful. Based on

similarities in response to treatment, toxicity, and overall
survival between patients with extraovarian peritoneal
serous papillary carcinoma and those with papillary serous
ovarian carcinoma, the treatment should be platinum based
as offered to ovarian cancer (52). Long-term remission can
be obtained in about 15% (49).

TREATMENT OF THE UNFAVORABLE CUP SUBSET
Chemotherapy has been a cornerstone of treatment for
patients with CUP for many years, in the majority of the
patients who belongs to the unfavorable subset.
Pavlidis has recently reviewed the major trials for
the last 40 years (53). In the 1960s and 1970s, the regimens
were mainly based on fluorouracil or doxorubicin. In the
late 1980s, platinum-based regimens were introduced and
the response rates and the median survival were improved.
Since the late 1990s, regimens including new drugs such
as gemcitabine, taxanes, and irinotecan have been tested
in patients with CUP and shown promising results (53).
The results from prospective trials performed in
patients with CUP after 2002 are summarized in Tables 1–3
(43,54–73). All trials were phase II studies using regimens
with various combinations of two or three drugs. Few trials have included more than 100 patients (61,62,68) and
most were nonrandomized. In the nonrandomized trials,
the majority of the regimens contained platinum (13 out
of 14 studies). The response rates ranged from 13% to 43%
(mean 30%) and 0% to 13% (mean 5%) of the patients
obtained complete remission. The median survival time
ranged from 6.5 to 11.8 months, and the one-year and twoyear survivals ranged from 26% to 43% (mean 34%) and
7% to 23% (mean 14%), respectively (Table 1).
Very few randomized studies have been conducted
in patients with CUP in the recent years. These studies were
small and unable to show any considerable differences in
response rates or survivals (Table 2) (43,54,59,66,73).
Despite the lack of randomized trials comparing chemotherapy to best supportive care, the general opinion is
that chemotherapy has improved survival in this heterogeneous group of cancers (5 months vs. 6–11 months) (74).
In the last five years, two second-line chemotherapy
regimens have been published. The response rates were
10% and 29% and the median survival time was 4.5 and
8 months, respectively (Table 3) (63,70).
Targeted biological drugs have shown anti-tumor
activity in various types of solid tumors, especially in combination with chemotherapy. Hainsworth et al. treated
51 patients with CUP with a combination of erlotinib and
bevacizumab, and 73% of the included patients had previously received one or two chemotherapy regimens. The
response rate was 10%. The median survival time was 7.4
months and 33% of the patients were alive at one year (75).
Additional trials combining targeted biological agents and
chemotherapy in first line treatment are thus warranted.
Although various studies have been made in recent
years with existing and new drugs it is still not possible to
make firm recommendations as to of the optimal treatment
on the present data. However, when empirical chemotherapy is recommended, a regimen that contains platinum and
taxanes or gemcitabine is a reasonable choice.

Chapter 18:

Table 18.1

Cancer of Unknown Primary Site

319

First Line Chemotherapy Regimens in CUP Patients from 2002 to 2007

Regimen

Number of
patients

Complete
response (%)

Partial
response (%)

Median survival
(months)

The 1-year and
2-year survival (%)

Reference

MiPF
DC alternating with
EP/GCSF
GCBPL
PEG
GDX
CBDE
P LP
PLCBE and GIR
CBPL
GCB
DXCBG

31
82

3
10

23
29

7.7
10

28 and 10
NR

MacDonald et al. 2002 (64)
Culine et al. 2002 (58)

120
30
36
102
37
132
22
50
63

4
13
3
6a
4
6

13a

21
23
37
21a
39
23
23a
31
24a

9
7.2
10
9
11
9.1
6.5
7.8
11.8

42 and 23
26 (1-year)
43 and 7
35 and 18
38 and 11
35 and 16
27 (1-year)
26 and 12
NR

CBGCA
IROX
PL(weekly)CB

33
47
42

2a
5

39a
11a
13

7.6
9.5
8.5

36 and 14
40 and 8
33 and 17

Greco et al. 2002 (61)
Balaña et al. 2003 (55)
Pouessel et al. 2004 (71)
Piga et al. 2004 (68)
Park et al. 2004 (67)
Greco et al. 2004 (62)
El-Rayes et al. 2005 (60)
Pittman et al. 2006 (69)
Mel et al. 2006
(abstract) (65)
Schneider et al. 2007 (72)
Briasoulis et al. 2008 (57)
Berry et al. 2007 (56)

a

Response rate calculated by intention-to-treat analysis.
Abbreviations: C, cyclophosphamide; CA, capecitabine; CB, carboplatin; D, doxorubicin; DX, docetaxel; E, etoposid; F, fluorouracil; G, gemcitabine; IR, irinotecan;
Mi, mitomycin C; NR, not reported; P, cisplatin; PL, paclitaxel.

Table 18.2

Randomized Phase II Study in CUP Patients from 2002 to 2007

Regimens

Number of patients

Response rate (%)

Median survival (months)

The 1-year and 2-year
survival (%)

Reference

PG vs. PIR
F vs. F + Mi
PLCB vs. GVL

80
88
92

55 vs. 38a
12 vs. 20
22 vs. 21

8 vs. 6
6.6 vs. 4.7
10.7 vs. 6.9

NR
28 vs. 21 (1 year)
31 vs. 22 (1 year)

66

48 vs. 42

9.6 vs. 13.6

NR

Culine et al. 2003 (59)
Assersohn et al. 2003 (54)
Huebner et al. 2005
(abstract) (73)
Palmeri et al. 2006 (66)

PGPL vs. PGVL
a

Response rate calculated by intention-to-treat analysis.
Abbreviations: CB, carboplantin; F, fluoruracil; G, gemcitabine; IR, irinotecan; Mi, mitomycin; NR, not reported; P, cisplatin; PL, paclitaxel; VL, vinorelbine.

Table 18.3

Second Line Chemotherapy Regimens in CUP Patients from 2002 to 2007

Regimens

Number of patients

Response rate (%)

Median survival (months)

15
40

29
10a

8
4.5

GDX
GIR

The 1-year and 2-year
survival (%)

Reference

NR
25 and 13

Pouessel et al. 2003 (70)
Hainsworth et al. 2005 (63)

a

Response rate calculated by intention-to-treat analysis.
Abbreviations: Dx, docetaxel; G, gemcitabine; IR, irinotecan; NR, not reported.

CONCLUSION
Patients presenting with CUP have a different pattern and
frequency of metastases than would be expected in cases
where the primary site is apparent at the time of presentation. The identification of the primary site in these cases
differs according to whether data are obtained from postmortem examination or from molecular analysis of their
genetic expression.
Time-consuming and costly radiological and imaging
studies are often performed. No matter how extensive is

the evaluation, the primary site is rarely identified. Accordingly, a selective search for treatable tumors is most appropriate and cost-effective. With adenocarcinomas, this will
include prostate, breast, GI tract, lungs, thyroid, and ovary,
and for undifferentiated tumors lymphomas, germ-cell and
neuroendocrine tumors.
Close cooperation between an experienced pathologist and clinical oncologist is essential in the management
of patients with unknown primary carcinoma. A comprehensive pathological examination is crucial, and, with
undifferentiated tumors, this will include immunohistology,

320

Section II: Disease-Specific Part

and sometimes electron microscopy, although the value of
this is considered limited to a few cases such as sarcomas
and neuroendocrine tumors. The usefulness of tumor
markers in identifying the primary site of the tumor in
patients with metastases of unknown origin is increasing
with the number of available antibodies.
Provided that CUP indeed retain the characteristics
of the primary tumor, the use of DNA microarray or
miRNA profiles on metastatic tumor tissue potentially
could play a significant diagnostic role in CUP patients
and it may also reveal new therapeutic molecular targets.
Implementation of mRNA and miRNA detection techniques in the routine clinical practice may direct treatment
strategies for CUP patients allowing customized cancer therapies and may thereby avoid unnecessary and ineffective
treatment.
The optimal treatment as of today cannot be determined. For patients without an identified treatable primary
tumor the use of empirical chemotherapy using current
drugs and schedules should be a matter of frank discussion
between patient and physician. Evaluation of performance
status is important and for those who will be eligible for
chemotherapy a median survival of 6.5 to 11.8 months can
be obtained, with 26% to 43% of the treated patients alive
after one year from the time of diagnosis. Survival rates at
two years are around 7% to 23% compared with a median
survival of two to three months in an untreated population
with unknown primary tumors.
Treatment of CUP patients continues to be a major
challenge, especially the treatment of adenocarcinomas and
undifferentiated carcinomas. Diagnostic strategies for this
group of patients should be further defined, and the use
of 18F-FDG-PET/CT, DNA microarray, and miRNA as
diagnostic tools in CUP should be clarified.

REFERENCES
1. Pavlidis N, Briasoulis E, Hainsworth J et al. Diagnostic and
therapeutic management of cancer of an unknown primary.
Eur J Cancer 2003; 39: 1990–2005.
2. Pavlidis N, Fizazi K. Cancer of unknown primary (CUP).
Crit Rev Oncol Hematol 2005; 54: 243–50.
3. Briasoulis E, Pavlidis N. Cancers of unknown primary site:
ESMO clinical recommendations for diagnosis, treatment and
follow-up. Ann Oncol 2007; 18(Suppl 2): ii81–2.
4. Rusthoven KE, Koshy M, Paulino AC. The role of fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in cervical lymph
node metastases from an unknown primary tumor. Cancer
2004; 101: 2641–9.
5. Seve P, Billotey C, Broussolle C et al. The role of 2-deoxy-2[F-18]fluoro-D-glucose positron emission tomography in
disseminated carcinoma of unknown primary site. Cancer
2007; 109: 292–9.
6. Fletcher JW, Djulbegovic B, Soares HP et al. Recommendations
on the use of 18F-FDG PET in oncology. J Nucl Med 2008;
49: 480–508.
7. Ambrosini V, Nanni C, Rubello D et al. 18F-FDG PET/CT in
the assessment of carcinoma of unknown primary origin.
Radiol Med (Torino) 2006; 111: 1146–55.
8. Gutzeit A, Antoch G, Kuhl H et al. Unknown primary tumors:
detection with dual-modality PET/CT-initial experience.
Radiology 2005; 234: 227–34.
9. Nassenstein K, Veit-Haibach P, Stergar H et al. Cervical
lymph node metastases of unknown origin: primary tumor

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

detection with whole-body positron emission tomography/
computed tomography. Acta Radiol 2007; 48: 1101–8.
Pelosi E, Pennone M, Deandreis D et al. Role of whole body
positron emission tomography/computed tomography scan
with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose in patients with biopsy proven
tumor metastases from unknown primary site. Q J Nucl Med
Mol Imaging 2006; 50: 15–22.
Wartski M, Le SE, Gontier E et al. In search of an unknown
primary tumour presenting with cervical metastases: performance of hybrid FDG-PET-CT. Nucl Med Commun 2007; 28:
365–71.
Milovic M, Popov I, Jelic S. Tumor markers in metastatic
disease from cancer of unknown primary origin. Med Sci
Monit 2002; 8: MT25–30.
Yonemori K, Ando M, Shibata T et al. Tumor-marker
analysis and verification of prognostic models in patients
with cancer of unknown primary, receiving platinum-based
combination chemotherapy. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol 2006;
132: 635–42.
Dabbs D, Silverman J. Immunohistochemical workup of
metastatic carcinoma of unknown primary. Pathology Case
Reviews 2001; 6: 146–53.
Nakamura N, Miyagi E, Murata S et al. Expression of thyroid
transcription factor-1 in normal and neoplastic lung tissues.
Mod Pathol 2002; 15: 1058–67.
Penman D, Downie I, Roberts F. Positive immunostaining for
thyroid transcription factor-1 in primary and metastatic
colonic adenocarcinoma: a note of caution. J Clin Pathol 2006;
59: 663–4.
Wick MR, Lillemoe TJ, Copland GT et al. Gross cystic disease
fluid protein-15 as a marker for breast cancer: immunohistochemical analysis of 690 human neoplasms and comparison
with alpha-lactalbumin. Hum Pathol 1989; 20: 281–7.
Kaufmann O, Volmerig J, Dietel M. Uroplakin III is a highly
specific and moderately sensitive immunohistochemical
marker for primary and metastatic urothelial carcinomas. Am
J Clin Pathol 2000; 113: 683–7.
Werling RW, Yaziji H, Bacchi CE et al. CDX2, a highly sensitive and specific marker of adenocarcinomas of intestinal
origin: an immunohistochemical survey of 476 primary and
metastatic carcinomas. Am J Surg Pathol 2003; 27: 303–10.
Lau SK, Weiss LM, Chu PG. Differential expression of MUC1,
MUC2, and MUC5AC in carcinomas of various sites: an
immunohistochemical study. Am J Clin Pathol 2004; 122:
61–9.
Tot T. Adenocarcinomas metastatic to the liver: the value of
cytokeratins 20 and 7 in the search for unknown primary
tumors. Cancer 1999; 85: 171–7.
Chu PG, Schwarz RE, Lau SK et al. Immunohistochemical
staining in the diagnosis of pancreatobiliary and ampulla of
Vater adenocarcinoma: application of CDX2, CK17, MUC1,
and MUC2. Am J Surg Pathol 2005; 29: 359–67.
Pentheroudakis G, Pavlidis N. Perspectives for targeted
therapies in cancer of unknown primary site. Cancer Treat
Rev 2006; 32: 637–44.
Massard C, Voigt JJ, Laplanche A et al. Carcinoma of an
unknown primary: are EGF receptor, Her-2/neu, and c-Kit
tyrosine kinases potential targets for therapy? Br J Cancer
2007; 97: 857–61.
Dova L, Pentheroudakis G, Georgiou I et al. Global profiling
of EGFR gene mutation, amplification, regulation and tissue
protein expression in unknown primary carcinomas: to target
or not to target? Clin Exp Metastasis 2007; 24: 79–86.
Karavasilis V, Malamou-Mitsi V, Briasoulis E et al. Angiogenesis in cancer of unknown primary: clinicopathological
study of CD34, VEGF and TSP-1. BMC Cancer 2005; 5: 25.
Hillen HF, Hak LE, Joosten-Achjanie SR et al. Microvessel
density in unknown primary tumors. Int J Cancer 1997; 74:
81–5.

Chapter 18:
28. Dova L, Pentheroudakis G, Golfinopoulos V et al. Targeting
c-KIT, PDGFR in cancer of unknown primary: a screening
study for molecular markers of benefit. J Cancer Res Clin
Oncol 2008; 134: 697–704.
29. Mano MS, Rosa DD, De AE et al. The 17q12-q21 amplicon:
Her2 and topoisomerase-IIalpha and their importance to
the biology of solid tumours. Cancer Treat Rev 2007; 33:
64–77.
30. Briasoulis E, Tsokos M, Fountzilas G et al. Bcl2 and p53
protein expression in metastatic carcinoma of unknown
primary origin: biological and clinical implications. A
Hellenic Co-operative Oncology Group study. Anticancer Res
1998; 18: 1907–14.
31. Bar-Eli M, Abbruzzese JL, Lee-Jackson D et al. p53 gene
mutation spectrum in human unknown primary tumors.
Anticancer Res 1993; 13: 1619–23.
32. Quackenbush J. Microarray analysis and tumor classification.
N Engl J Med 2006; 354: 2463–72.
33. Pentheroudakis G, Golfinopoulos V, Pavlidis N. Switching
benchmarks in cancer of unknown primary: from autopsy to
microarray. Eur J Cancer 2007; 43: 2026–36.
34. Lenzi R, Rashid A, Ordonez N et al. Gene profiling validation
for cancer using primary carcinoma samples. J Clin Oncol
2007; 25(18S): abstract 21130.
35. Bridgewater J, van LR, Floore A et al. Gene expression
profiling may improve diagnosis in patients with carcinoma
of unknown primary. Br J Cancer 2008; 98: 1425–30.
36. Qu K, Li H, Whetstone J et al. Molecular identification of
carcinoma of unknown primary (CUP) with gene expression
profiling. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25(18S): abstract 21024.
37. Varadhachary G, Talantov D, Jatkoe T et al. Prospective study
of a 10-gene molecular assay to predict tissue of origin in
patients with carcinoma of unknown primary (CUP). J Clin
Oncol 2007; 25(18S): abstract 21096.
38. Rosenfeld N, Aharonov R, Meiri E et al. MicroRNAs
accurately identify cancer tissue origin. Nat Biotechnol 2008;
26: 462–9.
39. Culine S, Kramar A, Saghatchian M et al. Development and
validation of a prognostic model to predict the length of
survival in patients with carcinomas of an unknown primary
site. J Clin Oncol 2002; 20: 4679–83.
40. Ponce LJ, Segura HA, Diaz BR et al. Carcinoma of unknown
primary site: development in a single institution of a
prognostic model based on clinical and serum variables.
Clin Transl Oncol 2007; 9: 452–8.
41. Seve P, Ray-Coquard I, Trillet-Lenoir V et al. Low serum
albumin levels and liver metastasis are powerful prognostic
markers for survival in patients with carcinomas of unknown
primary site. Cancer 2006; 107: 2698–705.
42. Guntinas-Lichius O, Peter KJ, Dinh S et al. Diagnostic
work-up and outcome of cervical metastases from an
unknown primary. Acta Otolaryngol 2006; 126: 536–44.
43. Patel RS, Clark J, Wyten R et al. Squamous cell carcinoma
from an unknown head and neck primary site: a “selective
treatment” approach. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg
2007; 133: 1282–7.
44. Haas I, Hoffmann TK, Engers R et al. Diagnostic strategies
in cervical carcinoma of an unknown primary (CUP). Eur
Arch Otorhinolaryngol 2002; 259: 325–33.
45. Johansen J, Buus S, Loft A et al. Prospective study of 18FDGPET in the detection and management of patients with lymph
node metastases to the neck from an unknown primary
tumor. Results from the DAHANCA-13 study. Head Neck
2008; 30: 471–8.
46. Beldi D, Jereczek-Fossa BA, D’Onofrio A et al. Role of
radiotherapy in the treatment of cervical lymph node metastases from an unknown primary site: retrospective analysis
of 113 patients. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2007; 69:
1051–8.

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

53.
54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

Cancer of Unknown Primary Site

321

Buchanan CL, Morris EA, Dorn PL et al. Utility of breast
magnetic resonance imaging in patients with occult primary
breast cancer. Ann Surg Oncol 2005; 12: 1045–53.
Khandelwal AK, Garguilo GA. Therapeutic options for occult
breast cancer: a survey of the American Society of Breast
Surgeons and review of the literature. Am J Surg 2005; 190:
609–13.
Fizazi K. Treatment of patients with specific subsets of
carcinoma of an unknown primary site. Ann Oncol 2006;
17(Suppl 10): x177–80.
Currow DC, Findlay M, Cox K et al. Elevated germ cell
markers in carcinoma of uncertain primary site do not predict
response to platinum based chemotherapy. Eur J Cancer 1996;
32A: 2357–9.
Pentheroudakis G, Briasoulis E, Karavassilis V et al. Chemotherapy for patients with two favourable subsets of unknown
primary carcinoma: active, but how effective? Acta Oncol
2005; 44: 155–60.
Bloss JD, Brady MF, Liao SY et al. Extraovarian peritoneal
serous papillary carcinoma: a phase II trial of cisplatin and
cyclophosphamide with comparison to a cohort with papillary serous ovarian carcinoma-a Gynecologic Oncology Group
Study. Gynecol Oncol 2003; 89: 148–54.
Pavlidis N. Forty years experience of treating cancer of
unknown primary. Acta Oncol 2007; 46: 592–601.
Assersohn L, Norman AR, Cunningham D et al. A randomised
study of protracted venous infusion of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)
with or without bolus mitomycin C (MMC) in patients with
carcinoma of unknown primary. Eur J Cancer 2003; 39:
1121–8.
Balaña C, Manzano JL, Moreno I et al. A phase II study of
cisplatin, etoposide and gemcitabine in an unfavourable
group of patients with carcinoma of unknown primary site.
Ann Oncol 2003; 14: 1425–9.
Berry W, Elkordy M, O’Rourke M et al. Results of a phase
II study of weekly paclitaxel plus carboplatin in advanced
carcinoma of unknown primary origin: a reasonable regimen
for the community-based clinic? Cancer Invest 2007; 25:
27–31.
Briasoulis E, Fountzilas G, Bamias A et al. Multicenter
phase-II trial of irinotecan plus oxaliplatin [IROX regimen] in
patients with poor-prognosis cancer of unknown primary: a
hellenic cooperative oncology group study. Cancer Chemother
Pharmacol 2008; 62: 277–84.
Culine S, Fabbro M, Ychou M et al. Alternative bimonthly
cycles of doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and etoposide,
cisplatin with hematopoietic growth factor support in patients
with carcinoma of unknown primary site. Cancer 2002; 94:
840–6.
Culine S, Lortholary A, Voigt JJ et al. Cisplatin in combination with either gemcitabine or irinotecan in carcinomas of
unknown primary site: results of a randomized phase II
study—trial for the French Study Group on Carcinomas of
Unknown Primary (GEFCAPI 01). J Clin Oncol 2003; 21:
3479–82.
El-Rayes BF, Shields AF, Zalupski M et al. A phase II study
of carboplatin and paclitaxel in adenocarcinoma of unknown
primary. Am J Clin Oncol 2005; 28: 152–6.
Greco FA, Burris HA III, Litchy S et al. Gemcitabine, carboplatin, and paclitaxel for patients with carcinoma of unknown
primary site: a Minnie Pearl Cancer Research Network study.
J Clin Oncol 2002; 20: 1651–6.
Greco FA, Rodriguez GI, Shaffer DW et al. Carcinoma of
unknown primary site: sequential treatment with paclitaxel/
carboplatin/etoposide and gemcitabine/irinotecan: a Minnie
Pearl Cancer Research Network phase II trial. Oncologist
2004; 9: 644–52.
Hainsworth JD, Spigel DR, Raefsky EL et al. Combination
chemotherapy with gemcitabine and irinotecan in patients

322

64.

65.

66.

67.

68.

69.

70.

Section II: Disease-Specific Part
with previously treated carcinoma of an unknown primary
site: a Minnie Pearl Cancer Research Network Phase II trial.
Cancer 2005; 104: 1992–7.
Macdonald AG, Nicolson MC, Samuel LM et al. A phase II
study of mitomycin C, cisplatin and continuous infusion
5-fluorouracil (MCF) in the treatment of patients with carcinoma of unknown primary site. Br J Cancer 2002; 86:
1238–42.
Mel JPM, Balaña C, López-Vega J et al. Phase II study of
Docetaxel (D), Carboplatin (C) and Gemcitabine (G), in
advanced tumors of unknown primary site. J Clin Oncol 2006;
24(18S): abstract 12028.
Palmeri S, Lorusso V, Palmeri L et al. Cisplatin and gemcitabine with either vinorelbine or paclitaxel in the treatment of
carcinomas of unknown primary site: results of an Italian
multicenter, randomized, phase II study. Cancer 2006; 107:
2898–905.
Park YH, Ryoo BY, Choi SJ et al. A phase II study of
paclitaxel plus cisplatin chemotherapy in an unfavourable
group of patients with cancer of unknown primary site. Jpn
J Clin Oncol 2004; 34: 681–5.
Piga A, Nortilli R, Cetto GL et al. Carboplatin, doxorubicin
and etoposide in the treatment of tumours of unknown primary site. Br J Cancer 2004; 90: 1898–904.
Pittman KB, Olver IN, Koczwara B et al. Gemcitabine and
carboplatin in carcinoma of unknown primary site: a phase
2 Adelaide Cancer Trials and Education Collaborative study.
Br J Cancer 2006; 95: 1309–13.
Pouessel D, Culine S, Becht C et al. Gemcitabine and
docetaxel after failure of cisplatin-based chemotherapy in

71.

72.

73.

74.

75.

76.

77.

patients with carcinoma of unknown primary site. Anticancer
Res 2003; 23: 2801–4.
Pouessel D, Culine S, Becht C et al. Gemcitabine and docetaxel as front-line chemotherapy in patients with carcinoma
of an unknown primary site. Cancer 2004; 100: 1257–61.
Schneider BJ, El-Rayes B, Muler JH et al. Phase II trial of
carboplatin, gemcitabine, and capecitabine in patients with
carcinoma of unknown primary site. Cancer 2007; 110:
770–5.
Huebner G, Steinbach S, Kohne C et al. Paclitaxel (P)/carboplatin (C) versus gemcitabine (G)/vinorelbine (V) in patients
with adeno- or undifferentiated carcinoma of unknown primary (CUP)—randomized prospective phase-II-trial. J Clin
Oncol 2005; 23(16S): abstract 4089.
Greco FA, Hainsworth JD. Cancer of unknown primary
site. In: DeVita V Jr, Hellman S, Rosenberg S, eds. Cancer
Principles and Practice of Oncology. Philadelphia: Lippincott
Williams and Wilkins, 2005: 2363–86.
Hainsworth JD, Spigel DR, Farley C et al. Phase II trial of
bevacizumab and erlotinib in carcinomas of unknown primary site: the Minnie Pearl Cancer Research Network. J Clin
Oncol 2007; 25: 1747–52.
Dennis JL, Hvidsten TR, Wit EC, et al. Markers of adenocarcinoma characteristic of the site of origin: development
of a diagnostic algorithm. Clin Cancer Res 2005; 11:
3766–72.
Park SY, Kim BH, Kim JH, Lee S, Kang GH. Panels of immunohistochemical markers help determine primary sites of
metastatic adenocarcinoma. Arch Pathol Lab Med 2007; 131:
1561-7.

19
1
Medical Emergencies
Luis Paz-Ares, Jesús Corral Jaime, Rocío García-Carbonero

80% of hypercalcemic cancer patients. This peptide binds to
PTH receptors in bone and kidneys, mimicking the biochemical abnormalities found in patients with hyperparathyroidism.
Except for cases of parathyroid carcinoma, ectopic production
of authentic PTH is exceptionally rare. Activation of receptor
activator of nuclear factor-kappa-B ligand (RANKL), produced by either tumor cells, stromal cells, or cells of the
immune system in response to PTHrp or interleukin, is
another key process in malignancy-associated hypercalcemia.
Prostaglandins, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, and cytokines
(tumor necrosis factor β, interleukin-1 and interleukin-6,
transforming growth factors, colony-stimulating factors, etc.)
may also play a role in the pathogenesis of cancer-related
hypercalcemia (1–3).

INTRODUCTION
Cancer patients are at increased risk for life-threatening
events because of a number of factors related both to the
underlying malignancy and to the toxic effects of anticancer therapy. In addition, they may also experience other
medical emergencies that may occur in individuals who
do not have cancer. All three sources of medical complications should be considered in the diagnostic process before
adequate management is instituted. This chapter will
review the etiopathogenesis, clinical presentation, and
management of the most common tumor-related emergencies. We will also briefly summarize one of the most common complications of antineoplastic therapy, febrile
neutropenia. Other treatment-related complications are
reviewed elsewhere in this book.
The management of an oncological complication follows the standard practice for a nononcological emergency:
establishment of a diagnosis, evaluation of organ function,
and prompt initiation of therapy. In addition, there are
several other specific oncological factors that must be taken
into consideration, as they may influence aggressiveness of
management. These include the time scale of the event,
cancer prognosis, prior clinical condition, patient’s and
family’s opinion, and several legal and ethical issues. Overall, the aggressiveness of the therapeutic approach should
be influenced by the reversibility of the event and by the
probability of a reasonable survival with adequate quality
of life for the patient.

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
Most hypercalcemic patients present with nonspecific
symptoms, such as fatigue, nausea and vomiting, anorexia,
and constipation. Polyuria, due to the impaired ability of
renal tubules to concentrate urine induced by hypercalcemia, along with nausea and vomiting, leads to rapid dehydration and substantial worsening of the hypercalcemic
state. The severity of symptoms is related not only to the
magnitude of hypercalcemia, but also to the rate of calcium
elevation; slow increases are better tolerated.
When severe hypercalcemia is present, neurological
symptoms such as muscle weakness, hyporeflexia, lethargy, stupor, or coma may develop. Electrocardiographic
changes (bradycardia, prolonged PR interval, shortened QT
interval, widened T wave), and, in rare cases, sudden death
from cardiac arrhythmias may also occur (1–2).
The diagnosis of hypercalcemia is confirmed by an
elevated serum calcium level (>10.5 mg/dl). Because calcium is protein-bound, patients with hypoalbuminemia
have spuriously low calcium levels. Conversely, patients
with multiple myeloma may have pseudohypercalcemia,
since elevated total serum proteins may increase the measured serum calcium erroneously. In such cases, quantification of ionized calcium is of great value, or, if this is not
possible, different algorithms for albumin-corrected calcium values are available.

METABOLIC EMERGENCIES
Hypercalcemia
Etiopathogenesis
Hypercalcemia is the most common life-threatening metabolic disorder associated with cancer, occurring in aproximately 10% of patients with malignant disease at some
point during the disease course. Considering the general
population, hyperparathyroidism is the most common
cause of hypercalcemia in the outpatient setting, whereas
neoplastic disease is the leading cause among hospitalized
patients. The tumors most commonly associated with
hypercalcemia include carcinomas of the breast, lung, kidney, head and neck, and esophagus, multiple myeloma,
and other hematological malignancies (1).
Malignancy-associated hypercalcemia, even in patients
with extensive osteolysis, is primarily mediated by humoral
factors produced by tumor cells. The most common mediator
is a peptide structurally related to parathyroid hormone
(PTH): PTH-related peptide, which is present in aproximately

Treatment
The best treatment of cancer-related hypercalcemia is specific therapy directed at the underlying malignancy. However, most often, hypercalcemia develops in cases of widely
metastatic tumors that are refractory to available therapy.
Therefore, nonspecific measures should be instituted
(Table 19.1).
323

324

Section III: Supportive Aspects

Table 19.1

Treatment of Cancer-Related Hypercalcemia

Agent

Dose

Onset of action

Relative efficacy

Adverse effects

Comments

Pamidronate

60–90 mg
4 hr i.v. infusion

24–48 hr

60–75%

Zoledronate

4 mg
15 min i.v. infusion

<24 hr

80–90%

Gallium Nitrate

24–48 hr
100–200 mg/m2/day
24 hr i.v. infusion
up to 5 days
2–8 UI/Kg s.c. or i.m.
1–4 hr
q 6–12 hr
up to 2 days
40–100 mg/day of
3–5 day
prednisone (or equivalent)

Decreases bone resorption
Reduces skeletal events in
myeloma/breast cancer
Decreases bone resorption
Reduces skeletal events in
myeloma/breast/lung/
prostate cancer and other
solid tumors
Decreases bone resorption

0–40%
(depending on disease)

200–400 ml/hr

20%

flu-like symptoms
lymphopenia
venous irritation
flu-like symptoms
anemia
nausea, constipation
hypophosphatemia
renal failure
nephrotoxicity
nausea/vomiting
constipation
nausea
abdominal cramps
hypersensitivity
hyperglycemia
gastritis
osteopenia
pulmonary edema

Calcitonin

Corticosteroids

Isotonic saline

12–24 hr

5–80%

30%

General Measures. Drugs that increase renal calcium
reabsorption (thiazides) or decrease renal blood flow (nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, H2-receptor antagonists),
oral calcium supplementation, vitamin D, and retinoids
should be discontinued. Immobilization tends to aggravate
hypercalcemia and must be avoided if possible.
Intravenous Fluids and Diuretics. Intravenous isotonic
saline infusion should be instituted to restore the extracellular fluid deficit. Volume expansion increases renal blood
flow and calciuresis. Depending upon the severity of dehydration and patient cardiovascular and renal functions,
saline solution may be infused at a rate of 200 to 500 ml/
hr during the first hours until adequate urine output, and
then reduced to 2 to 3 L daily in the following days. Careful monitoring is essential to prevent fluid overload. The
use of furosemide, although it enhances calciuresis, should
be restricted to balancing fluid intake and urine output in
patients who have been fully rehydrated, because it
increases the risk for developing hypovolemia, which could
cause the hypercalcemic state to worsen. With these measures alone, only 20% to 30% of patients will become normocalcemic. Thus, treatment with antiresorptive drugs
should be initiated early following rehydration (1,2).
Bisphosphonates. The bisphosphonates are pyrophosphate analogues that bind to hydroxyapatite crystals in the
bone matrix and inhibit calcium release from bone by interfering with osteoclast activity. Unlike calcitonin and gallium
nitrate, they do not have a direct activity on tubular calcium
resorption in the kidney. Between 30% and 50% of the unmetabolized compound is recovered in the urine within 24 hours
of intravenous administration. Most of the remaining drug
is taken up by the bone, from which it is released very
slowly. The oral bioavailability of bisphosphonates is very
low (<2%), and their employment as oral therapy to maintain
normocalcemia in cancer patients is discouraged (4).
Etidronate was the first bisphosphonate to be marketed,
but it has largely been replaced by other bisphosphonates
with demonstrated improved efficacy (1,4).

Rapid onset of action
Tachyphylaxis occurs quickly
Moderately active in
myeloma, leukemia, and
lymphoma
Corrects dehydration
Promotes calciuresis

Clodronate is a second-generation bisphosphonate of
intermediate potency available in Europe both as oral and
as intravenous formulations. However, owing to the poor
oral bioavailability, the use of repeated intravenous infusions every two to four weeks rather than oral therapy is
preferred for the maintenance of normocalcemia after initial intravenous treatment. The recommended dose is 300
to 500 mg/day for three to five consecutive days, or a
single dose of 900 to 1500 mg administered over four hours,
achieving normocalcemia in more than 70% of patients.
The effect occurs within two to three days, and the response
may last 10 to 12 days. Rapid bolus injection may cause
acute renal failure; slow intravenous infusion (one to two
hours) is therefore recommended and is usually well tolerated (1,4). In the palliative setting clodronate may be given
by subcutaneous infusion with mild local reaction as the
main side effect.
Pamidronate is only available as an intravenous formulation in most European countries. The recommended dose
is a single 60 to 90 mg two-hour intravenous infusion. Toxicity is generally mild. Transient febrile reactions, flu-like
symptoms and lymphopenia occur frequently after the first
infusion. Less common side effects include thrombophlebitis, asymptomatic hypocalcemia or hypophosphatemia, and
ocular complications (uveitis and scleritis). Severe renal dysfunction reduces pamidronate clearance, but no dose adjustment is necessary because of the long elimination half-life
from bone and the infrequent administration of the drug.
Responses to pamidronate therapy are observed in 70% to
80% of patients with malignant hypercalcemia. The effect
occurs within 24 to 48 hours, and the duration of response
is commonly two weeks or longer (1,2,4).
In comparative studies, pamidronate produced
higher rates of normocalcemia and responses of longer
duration than etidronate, clodronate, and plicamycin (mithramycin). Moreover, in several randomized studies performed in patients with breast cancer or multiple myeloma,
pamidronate administration, with or without systemic antineoplastic therapy, has significantly reduced and delayed

Chapter 19:

the incidence of skeletal events, including pathological
fracture, hypercalcemia, and the requirement for radiation
therapy or bone surgery (1,2,4).
Zoledronate is a third-generation heterocyclic nitrogencontaining bisphosphonate that has shown to be up to 850fold more potent than pamidronate in preclinical models.
Randomized clinical trials have demonstrated that zoledronic acid provides a greater response rate (88% vs. 70%),
faster onset of action (normalization of serum calcium by
day 4 in 50% of patients vs. 33% of patients), and more
prolonged response duration (median of 30 vs. 17 days)
than pamidronate in the treatment of cancer patients with
hypercalcemia (5). Furthermore, its mode of administration
(a single 4 mg 15-minute intravenous infusion) improves
patients’ convenience while maintaining a similar safety
profile. Consequently, zoledronic acid has superceded
pamidronate disodium as the drug of choice for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy (4,5). Adverse effects
are infrequent too and consist of pyrexia, transient hypocalcemia, and renal function impairment. Close renal function
monitoring is warranted and stepwise dose reductions recommended for creatinine clearance values of 50 to 60 ml/
min (3.5 mg), 40 to 50 ml/min (3.3 mg), and 30 to 40 ml/min
(3 mg), and the drug should not be used in patients with
creatinine clearances below 30 ml/min. More recently, a
new serious complication has been described associated
with its use, the osteonecrosis of the jaw (1,2,4). Although
initially reported in patients treated with zoledronic acid,
it has also been observed after pamidronate therapy. The
true incidence of osteonecrosis is unknown, although it is
higher among myeloma patients (7–10%) and in those with
recent teeth extractions or other invasive interventions of
the jaw, particularly after prolonged drug exposure. Adequate dental health is therefore mandatory before bisphosphonate treatment, and caution is required beyond two
years of therapy. Reinitiating bisphosphonate therapy in
patients suffering from osteonecrosis is controversial and
warrants further study.
Besides its effect on calcium homeostasis, zoledronate
significantly contributes to reduce bone pain and decreases
the incidence of skeletal events not only in breast cancer or
myeloma patients, but also in patients with prostate cancer,
lung cancer, and other solid tumors. In addition, preclinical
studies suggest that zoledronic acid may also display antitumor and antiangiogenic properties. In line with these
observations, recently communicated preliminary data of a
randomized trial shows that zoledronic acid (4 mg i.v. q
6 months) improves disease-free survival in premenopausal
women with hormone receptor positive breast cancer,
decreasing not only the incidence of distant bone metastasis,
but also locoregional recurrence and contralateral breast cancer. The role of bisphosphonate therapy will likely evolve
as data from these and other ongoing studies mature.
Other bisphosphonates undergoing clinical testing
include ibandronate, alendronate, tilundronate, and risendronate. Besides a decreased incidence of nephrotoxicity
associated with ibandronate, they do not seem to provide
any major advantages over other pyrophosphate analogues in clinical use (1,2,4).
Nonbisphosphonate Drugs. Gallium Nitrate binds to
hydroxyapatite and causes a decrease in its solubility,
rendering it more resistant to osteoclast-mediated bone

Medical Emergencies

325

resorption. Gallium nitrate also reduces renal tubular calcium resorption and stimulates bone formation in vitro. The
recommended dose for the treatment of malignant hypercalcemia is 100 to 200 mg/m2/day given as a 24-hour infusion for up to five days. Calcium serum levels begin to fall
within 24 to 48 hours after drug administration, and normocalcemia is achieved within four to seven days in 70%
to 90% of patients. Adverse effects include nephrotoxicity,
nausea, vomiting, and constipation (1,2). Although randomized double-blind studies have demonstrated the superiority
of gallium nitrate over etidronate, pamidronate, or calcitonin, its greater toxicity and more cumbersome mode of
administration limits its use to the acute setting or to severe
cases with bisphosphonate-refractory hypercalcemia (1,2).
Calcitonin is a natural peptide hormone, secreted by
the thyroid gland, which decreases bone and renal tubular
resorption of calcium. It is generally administered by the
intramuscular or subcutaneous route, at a dose of 6 to 8
UI/kg every 6 hours. Its main advantage over other available drugs for the treatment of malignant hypercalcemia is
its rapid onset of action (usually within two hours), but its
hypocalcemic effect is weak (fewer than 30% of patients
achieve normocalcemia), and response is not maintained for
more than 48 hours despite continuous treatment. It is useful in the management of critically ill patients with acute
severe hypercalcemia, in combination with gallium nitrate
or zoledronate together with intravenous hydration (1,2).
Corticosteroids are moderately active hypocalcemic
agents in patients whose underlying disease is responsive
to steroids, such as myeloma, lymphoma, leukemia, and,
to a lesser degree, breast carcinoma. Other treatments such
as mythramycin (plicamycin) and phosphates have been
largely replaced by bisphosphonates because of their lower
efficacy and their unfavorable toxicity profile (1,2).
New Treatment Approaches. New pharmacological
interventions involve the blockade of RANKL. RANKL is
a key element in the differentiation, function, and survival
of osteoclasts, which play an essential role in removing
calcium from bone in response to PTH stimulation. RANKL
is a transmembrane protein belonging to the TNF superfamily, widely expressed in bone and lymphoid tissues and
on the surface of osteoblasts stimulated by osteotropic factors such as PTH, 1,25(OH)2D3, or TNF-α (1,3). The extracellular domain binds to its specific receptor RANK,
expressed on plasma membrane of monocyte-macrophage
lineage osteoclast precursor cells, as well as in mature
osteoclasts and dendritic cells, eventually promoting differentiation, activation, and survival of osteoclasts. The
activity of RANKL is physiologically counterbalanced by
circulating osteoprotegerin (OPG), which acts like a soluble
decoy receptor of RANKL preventing its binding to RANK
(1,3). Consistent with this, intravenous administration of
OPG has shown potent hypocalcemic effects in murine
models of humoral hypercalcemia, and are more effective
in this setting than bisphosphonates. Preliminary data from
small studies involving osteoporotic women suggest OPG
safely reduces bone turnover. A fully humanized monoclonal antibody against RANKL, denosumab (AMG 162), has
also demonstrated sustained decrease in bone resorption
not only in women with osteoporosis but also in patients
with multiple myeloma or breast cancer. Antibodies against
PTHrp have been tested in preclinical models showing

326

Section III: Supportive Aspects

hypocalcemic effects. However, the role of these agents in
the treatment of malignancy-associated hypercalcemia has
not been evaluated in the clinical setting to date (1,3,6).

Summary
Malignant hypercalcemia is a frequent metabolic emergency in cancer patients that can be controlled in the
majority of cases. Fluid replacement and treatment with
bisphosphonates are the mainstay of therapy. Calcitonin
and gallium nitrate, where available, may be added initially in critically ill patients with acute severe hypercalcemia. Zoledronate is the bisphosphonate of choice,
administered by intravenous infusion every two to four
weeks. Administration of zoledronic acid should also be
considered for routine use together with systemic therapy
in patients with solid tumors or multiple myeloma and
osteolytic metastases, to reduce pain and delay skeletal
complications. Anti-RANKL therapy is currently being
evaluated in the clinical setting with encouraging preliminary results. The impact of these drugs on other cancer
outcomes remains to be ellucidated.

Tumor Lysis Syndrome
Etiopathogenesis
The tumor lysis syndrome occurs as a result of rapid tumor
cell lysis, with release of intracellular metabolites into the
bloodstream at a rate that exceeds the excretory capacity
of the kidneys. The major metabolic abnormalities seen in
the tumor lysis syndrome are hyperkalemia, hyperuricemia, and hyperphosphatemia with hypocalcemia. It is more
likely to occur in patients with preexisting renal dysfunction. The syndrome may be complicated by the propensity
of uric acid and phosphates to precipitate in renal tubules
and impair renal excretory function, which leads to further
elevation of these metabolites, lactic acidosis and azotemia
(1,7,8).
The tumor lysis is observed most frequently in
patients with a large, high-proliferation-rate tumor that is
highly sensitive to the cytotoxic effects of chemotherapy.
This syndrome is most commonly associated with Burkitt’s
lymphoma, but it also occurs in other lymphoproliferative
disorders such as high-grade non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma,
acute leukemia, and chronic myeloid leukemia in blast
crisis. Anecdotal cases have also been reported in solid
tumors such as small cell lung cancer, germ-cell tumors,
breast cancer, medulloblastoma, and others (1,7,8).
Although the tumor lysis syndrome most often
develops following the administration of chemotherapeutic
agents, it may also occur following radiotherapy, hormonal
therapy, or treatment with monoclonal antibodies or interferon, and occasionally it is seen spontaneously.

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
The signs and symptoms of tumor lysis syndrome are
those caused by the electrolyte disturbances. Hyperkalemia
may produce characteristic electrocardiographic changes,
arrhythmias, and even cardiac arrest, which is the main
cause of death in these patients. Hyperphosphatemia may
cause the precipitation of calcium phosphate in renal
tubules, which can impair renal function and further aggravate the syndrome. Hypocalcemia, which is thought to be

due to the precipitation of calcium phosphate in tissues
because of hyperphosphatemia, is often asymptomatic;
when severe, it may produce neuromuscular irritability,
carpopedal spasms, altered mental status, and convulsions.
Diagnosis is confirmed by laboratory tests demonstrating
increased levels of serum uric acid, potassium and phosphate, and decreased serum calcium levels (1,7,8).

Treatment
The main treatment of tumor lysis syndrome is prevention. High-risk patients should be closely monitored, with
electrolytes, creatinine, phosphate, and uric acid level
determinations before treatment, and every 6 to 12 hours
in the first days following therapy. Chemotherapy should
be delayed until metabolic disturbances are corrected and
the patient has been adequately hydrated with intravenous fluids (3000–4000 ml/day) for 24 to 48 hours. Ensuring an adequate urinary flow rate and maintaining a urine
pH >7 with sodium bicarbonate are essential measures to
increase the solubility of uric acid and minimize the chance
of renal failure. Allopurinol reduces the incidence of nephropathy by inhibiting xanthine oxidase and thus decreasing the conversion of hypoxanthine and xanthine to uric
acid. As it has no effect on preexisting uric acid, uric acid
levels usually do not decrease until 48 to 72 hours after
treatment. Allopurinol should be administered in patients
at risk of tumor lysis syndrome in doses ranging from 300
to 900 mg/day, before chemotherapy, and during two to
four days following treatment (doses should be reduced
in cases of renal insufficiency). Parenteral administration
(200–400 mg/m2/day) may be required in patients with
restricted oral intake. More recently, a new recombinant
urate oxidase, rasburicase, has been developed for the
prevention and treatment of hyperuricemia. Urate oxidase
catalyzes the enzymatic oxidation of uric acid into allantoin, a readily excretable metabolite that is 5 to 10 times
more soluble in urine than uric acid. At the recommended
dose and schedule (0.15–0.2 mg/kg/day given as a 30-minute
daily intravenous infusion for five days) it is well tolerated
except for occasional instances of hemolytic anemia and
methemoglobinemia observed in patients with glucose-6phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency. Studies in both
adults and children have shown that more tha 90% of
patients achieve normalization of uric acid levels within
four hours of rasburicase administration. There is no conclusive evidence, however, regarding its ability to reduce
the need for dialysis. Its ability to lower preexisting elevated uric acid levels and the rapid onset of action, allowing patients to receive specific antineoplastic therapy with
no delay, are distinct advantages that rasburicase possesses over allopurinol. Nevertheless, cost needs to be
factored in the decision-making process due to its elevated
price. Its use may be therefore restricted to patients presenting
with hyperuricemia or to the prevention of tumor lysis
syndrome in high-risk patients such as those with leukemias with white blood cell counts more than 50 × 103/mm3
or lymphomas with lactate dehydrogenase levels greater
than two to five times the upper limit of normal.
Hyperphosphatemia and its resultant hypocalcemia
should be managed with oral phosphate binders such as
aluminum hydroxide, 30 ml four times a day. If hyperkalemia develops, treatment with an oral sodium–potassium

Chapter 19:

exchange resin or with combined insulin–glucose therapy
should be initiated promptly. Calcium gluconate antagonizes the cardiac affects of hyperkalemia and can be especially helpful in patients with concomitant hypocalcemia.
Persistent hypocalcemia is occasionally seen, even after
hyperphosphatemia has been resolved, which may be due
to low serum levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. These
cases should be treated with calcitriol. In severe cases (potassium ≥6 mmol/l, uric acid ≥10 mg/dl, phosphorus rapidly
rising or ≥10 mg/dl, fluid overload, acutely worsening renal
function, or highly symptomatic hypocalcemia), immediate
hemodialysis is recommended (1,7,8).

Hypoglycemia
Etiopathogenesis
Tumor-induced hypoglycemia is commonly associated
with insulin-secreting islet cell tumors, but it may rarely
develop also in patients with large slowly growing mesenchymal tumors, hepatoma, and adrenocortical carcinoma.
Several etiological mechanisms have been postulated:
secretion of insulin or insulin-like substances, increased
metabolism of glucose by the tumor, and failure of the
regulatory mechanisms for glucose homeostasis. Insulin
levels may be elevated in patients with hypoglycemia and
islet cell cancers, but this is rarely observed in other neoplasms. Increased levels of substances with insulin-like
activity have been measured in patients with hypoglycemia
and nonislet cell malignancies. Increased glucose consumption by the tumor rarely leads to hypoglycemia if counterregulatory mechanisms for glucose homeostasis are not
impaired. However, in patients with large tumor burdens
and extensive hepatic metastases, the combination of accelerated glucose utilization with impaired production may
lead to hypoglycemia (1,7,9).

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
The clinical presentation of hypoglycemia is related to the
degree and rate of glucose depression. Common symptoms
include fatigue, diaphoresis, weakness, dizziness, and confusion, and tend to occur or worsen after fasting in the
early morning or late afternoon. In severe acute cases
(<40 mg/dl), patients may develop seizures, focal or diffuse
neurological deficits, and coma.
Before assuming the diagnosis of tumor-induced
hypoglycemia, one should exclude the more common
causes of hypoglycemia: exogenous insulin use, oral diabetic agents, adrenal or pituitary insufficiency, ethanol
abuse, or malnutrition. Despite a low serum glucose level,
patients with insulinoma will have increased insulin and
proinsulin levels. Patients with nonislet cell tumors will
have normal to low insulin levels. Insulin-like plasma factors may be measured, where available, by bioassays or
radioreceptor techniques. Artefactual hypoglycemia may
occur in leukemia with high leukocyte counts, because of
cellular glucose use in vitro (1,7,9).

Treatment
Specific antitumor therapy is the preferred treatment for
hypoglycemia due to malignancy. Most insulin-secreting
tumors are benign and can be removed by surgical intervention. Chemotherapy or diazoxide, a drug that inhibits insulin

Medical Emergencies

327

secretion, have only modest efficacy in nonoperable patients.
Nonislet cell tumors can sometimes be totally or partially
resected, with resolution of hypoglycemia. When hypoglycemia is mild, increasing the frequency of meals may suffice.
Intravenous infusion of glucose may be necessary in more
severe cases while applying more specific measures. Corticosteroids may also provide temporary relief. In some
instances, intermittent subcutaneous or intramuscular glucagon injections, or continuous infusions of glucagon with a
portable pump, have been used successfully, particularly in
patients with adequate glycogen stores (patients with insulinomas or with insulin-like products secreting tumors)
(1,7,9). Glucose levels do not rise in response to glucagon
when hypoglycemia is due to poor hepatic glycogen reserve/
liver failure.

Syndrome of Inappropriate Secretion
of Antidiuretic Hormone (Siadh)
Etiopathogenesis
The syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic
hormone (SIADH) occurs in 1% to 2% of cancer patients.
It is characterized by hyponatremia, low serum osmolality,
and inappropriately high urine osmolality and sodium levels, caused by excessive production of antidiuretic hormone (ADH). Increased ADH levels produce excessive
water reabsorption in the collecting ducts of the kidneys,
and a mild increase in intravascular volume. Volume
expansion increases renal perfusion, decreases proximal
tubular sodium reabsorption, inhibits aldosterone secretion, and triggers the release of atrial natriuretic hormone.
All these lead to hyponatremia, with inappropriately concentrated urine (1,7).
The most common causes of SIADH include pulmonary infections (pneumonia, tuberculosis, abscess), central
nervous system diseases (mass lesion, stroke, infection,
hemorrhage), drugs (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, opiates,
thiazides, chlorpropramide, carbamazepine), and malignant
diseases. Tumor-associated SIADH occurs mainly in patients
with small cell carcinoma of the lung (10–15% of small cell
lung cancer patients will develop clinically significant
hyponatremia, which is associated with a poor prognosis),
although it has also been reported in cancers of the prostate,
adrenal cortex, gastrointestinal tract, and head and neck,
and in carcinoid tumors, thymoma, lymphoma, and mesothelioma. Ectopic ADH secretion in patients with small cell
lung cancer has been reported. All other conditions are
associated with excessive ADH production in the posterior
pituitary (1,7).

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
Many patients with SIADH are asymptomatic, and the disorder is discovered incidentally on routine blood electrolyte
determinations. In mild cases, patients may report vague
nonspecific symptoms such as fatigue, anorexia, nausea,
myalgias, and headache. In more severe cases, when
hyponatremia develops rapidly or the sodium falls below
115 mg/dl, altered mental status, confusion, seizures, and
coma may develop. Psychotic behavior, pathological
reflexes, papilledema, and even focal neurological signs
have also been reported in cases of profound hyponatremia
(1,7). Patients in whom hyponatremia develops rapidly are

328

Section III: Supportive Aspects

more likely to present with severe clinical symptoms,
although they can also tolerate a more rapid correction.
Before the diagnosis of SIADH can be established,
other frequent causes of hyponatremia should be excluded,
such as cardiac, hepatic or renal dysfunction, gastrointestinal fluid and electrolyte losses, adrenal insufficiency,
hypothyroidism, or diuretics. Patients with plasma cell
dyscrasias and elevated paraprotein levels may have artefactual hyponatremia. Once other causes of hyponatremia
have been excluded, the diagnosis of SIADH is based on
the demonstration of hyponatremia (<135 mmol/l), low
serum osmolality (<280 mosmol/l), high urine sodium
(>20 mmol/l), and osmolality (>200 mosmol/l) (1,7).

Treatment
The most effective therapy for SIADH is that directed at
the underlying cause. Combination chemotherapy in
patients with small cell lung cancer, radiotherapy and corticosteroids in patients with brain metastases, or discontinuation of the responsible agent in patients with
drug-induced SIADH will revert the hyponatremia in most
cases. If the etiology of excessive ADH secretion cannot be
corrected, fluid intake restriction of 500 to 1000 ml/day
generally produces normalization of serum sodium levels
within 7 to 10 days. If fluid restriction is not effective or
patients are unable to comply, treatment with demeclocycline may correct the hyponatremia by producing a dosedependent nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. The main side
effect is nephrotoxicity, generally mild and reversible. The
recommended initial daily dose is 600 mg (lower in patients
with liver or renal disease), divided into two or three doses
per day. Doses may be increased up to 1200 mg if no
response is observed. More recently, several vasopressin
V2 receptor antagonists, such as lixivaptan, conivaptan,
and tolvaptan, have been introduced into clinical practice
and may emerge as additional therapeutic options for the
management of this syndrome (10). In patients with coma
or seizures, intravenous 3% hypertonic saline or isotonic
saline infusion with furosemide should be instituted. The
rate of rise in serum sodium should not be greater than
0.5 to 1 mmol/l/hr to minimize the risk of central pontine
myelinolysis (1,7).

CARDIOVASCULAR EMERGENCIES
Superior Vena Cava Syndrome
Etiopathogenesis
Superior vena cava syndrome is the clinical expression of
the obstruction of blood flow through the superior vena
cava to the right atrium. The superior vena cava is the
major drainage vessel for venous blood from the head,
neck, upper extremities, and upper thorax, and its obstruction impairs blood return and increases venous pressure,
causing facial and upper extremity edema, as well as pleural and pericardial effusions. In rare acute severe cases,
tracheal, laryngeal, and brain edema may develop and
cause death (11–13).
Superior vena cava syndrome may result from thrombosis, invasion, or compression of the superior vena cava
by any pathological process that invades the lymphatics or
other structures of the superior mediastinum. Nowadays,
neoplasms account for 70% to 90% of cases of superior vena

cava syndrome. Bronchogenic carcinoma, predominantly
small cell lung cancer, is the underlying malignancy in 50%
to 70% of cases. The second most common tumor causing
superior vena cava syndrome is lymphoma, especially diffuse large cell and lymphoblastic lymphoma, accounting for
8% to 20% of the cases. Other primary malignancies that
may cause superior vena cava syndrome are mediastinal
germ cell tumors and thymomas. Breast carcinoma is the
most frequent metastatic neoplasm to cause superior vena
cava syndrome. Up to 20% of the cases are due to nonmalignant conditions such as histoplasmosis, tuberculosis, sarcoidosis, goitre, idiopathic mediastinal fibrosis, or thrombosis
of the superior vena cava in patients with central vein
catheters or pacemakers. Superior vena cava syndrome is
rare in children, and is usually iatrogenic, associated with
indwelling catheters or surgery. When because of malignant
diseases more than two-thirds of superior vena cava syndrome cases in children are caused by diffuse large cell or
lymphoblastic lymphoma (11–13).

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
Superior vena cava syndrome is usually of insidious onset
and is rarely a true oncological emergency. Patients generally complain of dyspnea, a sensation of fullness in the
head, and swelling of the face, particularly around the
eyes, trunk, and upper extremities, which tend to worsen
when lying down or leaning forward. Other less frequent
symptoms include headache, cough, chest pain, dysphagia,
hoarseness, dizziness, visual disturbances, and fatigue. The
most common findings on physical examination are neck
vein distention, facial edema, plethora, cyanosis, arm and
hand edema, tachypnea, and stridor. If the obstruction has
developed slowly, collateral blood flow may be evident in
the abdominal wall or in the upper chest and back. In cases
with increased intracranial pressure, papilledema, confusion, seizures, or coma may develop (11–13).
Diagnosis of superior vena cava syndrome is usually
clinically evident. The chest X-ray film shows a superior
mediastinal widening or a right hilar mass in most cases.
Only 16% of patients with superior vena cava syndrome
have normal chest X-ray. Computed tomography (CT) is
the most useful radiographic study, as it provides more
detailed information such as the level of superior vena cava
obstruction, the presence of superior vena cava thrombosis,
collateral circulation, mediastinal adenopathies or masses,
and other sites of unrecognized disease in the chest, and
it may also help guide a fine-needle aspiration biopsy if
histology has not yet been obtained. Contrast venography
is usually reserved for patients in whom surgical bypass is
considered. Radionuclide (technetium-99m) venography is
an alternative minimally invasive method (13). At the time
of presentation, fewer than 50% of patients have a known
diagnosis of cancer. In the absence of severe airway
obstruction, significantly elevated intracranial pressure, or
cardiovascular collapse, etiological diagnosis should be
established before definitive therapy. In patients with superior vena cava syndrome and small cell lung cancer, sputum cytology is diagnostic in up to two-thirds of patients
and bronchoscopy in most of them. In the presence of
pleural effusion, thoraconcentesis established the diagnosis
of malignancy in 71% of cases. Bone marrow biopsy may
provide the diagnosis in 25% of patients with small cell

Chapter 19:

lung cancer and in some cases of lymphoma. Biopsy of a
palpable cervical or supraclavicular node may be positive
in more than two-thirds of cases. Fine-needle cytological
aspirate under CT-scan guidance or fluoroscopy is sometimes useful and is associated with few serious complications.
If these procedures do not provide a diagnosis, mediastinoscopy and even thoracotomy can be safely performed with a
high diagnostic yield (13).

Treatment
Although etiological diagnosis can be made and specific
therapy given for superior vena cava syndrome, several
general measures should be initiated to palliate symptoms
and prevent complications. Bed rest with elevation of the
head and supplemental oxygen may alleviate dyspnea and
reduce venous pressure. Diuretic therapy may also offer
temporary relief, but dehydration from diuresis increases
the risk of thrombosis and may result in worsening of the
superior vena cava syndrome. Short-term high-dose corticosteroid therapy is often symptomatically beneficial to
decrease laryngeal or cerebral edema, especially in patients
with lymphoma, although their efficacy has never been
properly evaluated (12–14).
The prognosis of patients with superior vena cava
syndrome strongly correlates with the prognosis of the
underlying disease. Because small cell lung cancer and
lymphoma are the underlying malignancies in the majority of cases of superior vena cava syndrome, chemotherapy or combined-modality therapy are the mainstay of
treatment. In patients with non-small cell lung cancer or
other less chemosensitive neoplasms, radiotherapy offers
effective palliation in 70% of cases. Radiotherapy may also
be used in the very rare cases where histological diagnosis cannot be established and the clinical status of the
patient is rapidly deteriorating. In patients with severe
tumor-induced superior vena cava syndrome who have
not responded to chemotherapy or radiotherapy, and are
expected to survive for a significant period of time, caval
stenting, balloon angioplasty, or even bypass surgery may
be considered. Thrombolysis is often an important component of comprehensive endovascular therapy as thrombosis is often a critical component of the obstruction and
its lysis is required to allow the passage of the wire (15).
Catheter-induced superior vena cava syndrome can be
safely and effectively treated with early fibrinolytic therapy. Removal of the catheter, in combination with anticoagulation to prevent embolization, is another alternative,
when feasible (12–15).

Medical Emergencies

329

Malignant pericardial effusion is generally caused by
the obstruction of lymphatics and venous drainage of the
heart by pericardial metastases or mediastinal involvement. When fluid accumulates to a critical volume, the
intrapericardial pressure rises, impeding passive diastolic
filling of the normally low-pressure right heart structure
and thus decreasing the stroke volume. An increase in
adrenergic tone initially compensates the situation, by
increasing the heart rate, myocardial contractility, and systemic resistance. If fluid continues to accumulate, preload
becomes limiting and cardiac output drops, causing peripheral hypoperfusion, and even death. The amount of fluid
necessary to cause this clinical situation, known as cardiac
tamponade, is variable, depending upon the rate of fluid
accumulation, distensibility of the pericardial sac, and
intravascular volume. A small amount of pericardial effusion (even less than 200 ml) may cause tamponade if it
accumulates rapidly, if the pericardium is not compliant
because of postradiation fibrosis, or if the intravascular
volume is low (16).

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
Malignant pericardial effusion is generally observed in
patients with a previous diagnosis of cancer, typically at
late stages of their disease. Pericardial effusions are often
asymptomatic. Symptoms frequently observed include dyspnea, orthopnea, cough, chest pain, palpitations, fatigue,
and dizziness. Physical examination may reveal the presence of jugular vein distension, distant heart sounds, a
pericardial friction rub, tachycardia, and hypotension. Pulsus paradoxus, a drop greater than 10 mmHg in arterial
systolic pressure during inspiration, is a hallmark of cardiac
tamponade (11,16). The electrocardiogram often demonstrates sinus tachycardia, nonspecific ST-segment and
T-wave changes, and low-voltage QRS complexes. Chest
radiographs usually show an enlargement of the cardiac
silhouette (“water bottle heart”), particularly when the pericardial effusion has accumulated slowly or is greater than
250 ml, although a normal chest X-ray does not exclude the
possibility of effusion. Transthoracic echocardiography is
the least invasive and most precise method of diagnosing
a pericardial effusion. It may also detect the presence of
diastolic right atrial and ventricular collapse. The diagnosis
of malignant pericardial effusion requires the demonstration of tumor cells in either the pericardial fluid or tissue.
Percutaneous pericardiocentesis guided by two-dimensional
echocardiography and cytological examination of the pericardial fluid will demonstrate malignant cells in 80% to 90%
of patients with neoplastic effusions (16).

Malignant Pericardial Effusions

Treatment

Etiopathogenesis

Therapy for malignant pericardial effusion should be tailored
to the performance status and prognosis of each patient.
Specific therapy aimed at the underlying malignancy, such
as radiotherapy (2–8 Gy over two to three weeks) in cases of
lymphoma, or chemotherapy in cases of breast or lung cancer, lymphoma or leukemia, should be instituted early. If
effective antineoplastic therapy is not available, or the clinical
situation requires prompt relief, then pericardiocentesis may
be required. A pigtail catheter may be inserted over a needle
and left in the pericardial space at the time of pericardiocentesis to enable more complete evacuation of the effusion and

Malignant involvement of cardiac structures is observed
in 1% to 20% of cancer patients from autopsy series.
Carcinomas of the lung and breast, lymphomas, leukemias, and melanomas account for 80% of the tumors that
metastasize to the pericardium. Primary tumors of the
pericardium (teratoma, sarcoma, mesothelioma) are
extremely rare (11,16). Nonmalignant causes such as
drug or radiation-induced pericarditis, hypothyroidism,
uremia, infection or autoimmune disease should also be
considered.

330

Section III: Supportive Aspects

provide access for sclerotherapy. Symptoms often resolve
significantly following pericardiocentesis, but long-term
palliation is exceptional, with recurrence rates of up to 90%
within 90 days. To reduce the incidence of fluid reaccumulation, periocardiodesis may be performed. The instillation
through the pericardial catheter of different agents, most
frequently tetracyclines, bleomycin, or tiothepa, produces
an inflammatory response and subsequent fibrotic obliteration of the pericardial cavity that prevents recurrence
for more than one month in 70% to 90% of the patients.
Multiple instillations are usually required to be effective.
Side effects include fever, chest pain, and arrhythmias.
Bleomycin is preferred by some authors, as it is associated
with less pain than tetracyclines. Pain may be also ameliorated by the addition of lidocaine to the instillation (16,17).
Surgery should be reserved for those patients who are
medically fit and whose malignant effusions fail to respond
to antineoplastic therapy or to pericardial sclerosis. Subxiphoid pericardiotomy, which drains the pericardial sac externally without a thoracotomy, is the surgical procedure of
choice, which may be performed under local anesthesia and
has a recurrence rate of 5% to 10%. An alternative procedure is a pleuropericardial window, which drains the pericardium into the pleural space, but this requires a
thoracotomy and is associated with higher morbidity and
mortality. Finally, patients with constrictive pericarditis
caused by radiation or neoplastic pericardial constriction
with a reasonable chance of long-term survival should
undergo pericardial resection (16,17) (Table 19.2).

RESPIRATORY EMERGENCIES
Malignant Pleural Effusion
Etiopathogenesis
Pleural effusion is a common oncological complication. It is
the presenting sign in 10% of cancer patients, and about 50%
of patients with advanced malignancies will eventually
develop a pleural effusion. Lung cancer (35%), breast cancer
(23%), and lymphomas (10%) account for more than twothirds of all malignant pleural effusions (MPEs) (16). CarciTable 19.2

nomas of unknown primary account for an additional 12%
of MPEs. The presence of malignant pleura effusion generally
indicates end stage disease and a short life expectancy (80%
of patients die within six months).
Between 5 and 10 liters of pleural fluid are produced
daly, of which 80% to 90% is reabsorbed. In physiological
conditions, the pleura may contain 10 to 30 ml of hypoproteinemic plasma filtrate. Abnormal fluid collections may
result from increased capillary permeability, increased
hydrostatic pressure (congestive heart failure), increased
negative intrapleural pressure (atelectasis), increased pleural fluid osmotic pressure (pleural tumor growth), decreased
serum osmotic pressure (hypoalbuminemia), or impaired
pleural lymphatic drainage. Enhanced capillary permeability due to pleural inflammation or endothelial disruption
and impaired lymphatic drainage secondary to obstruction
by tumor are the main mechanisms involved in the development of malignant pleura effusion (16).

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
The majority of patients with malignant pleura effusion
(75%) are symptomatic, and dyspnea is the most common
presenting symptom. Dry cough and different degrees of
chest discomfort (from dull ache to sharp pleuritic pain)
are also frequently observed. Physical examination often
reveals tachypnea, restricted chest wall expansion, distant
breath sounds, decreased fremitus, and dullness to percussion. Contralateral tracheal deviation and low cardiac output related to mediastinal compression may be occasionally
seen with massive effusions (16,18).
An upright postero-anterior and lateral chest X-ray
shows costophrenic angle blunting with effusions as small as
200 ml, and a lateral decubitus film is able to detect a fluid
layer even with a 100 ml fluid collection. Complete opacification of the hemithorax occurs in 15% of cases, generally
associated with mediastinal shift toward the contralateral side
indicating massive effusion. No mediastinal shift is observed
despite massive effusion when there is lung collapse secondary to proximal airway obstruction, mediastinal fixation by
malignant lymphadenopathy or in patients with malignant

Treatment of Malignant Pericardial Effusions

Therapeutic approach

Indications

Antineoplastic therapy
• Radiotherapy (2–8 Gy/2–3 wks)
• Chemotherapy

Pericardiocentesis
Pericardiodesis
Subxiphoid pericardial window
(local anesthesia)
Pericardial resection

Recurrence rate
Depends on histology and stage of
disease

Lymphoma
Breast cancer
Lung cancer
Leukemia
Lymphoma
Clinical situation requires prompt relieve
(temporizing measure for cardiac tamponade)
Clinical situation requires prompt relieve
Effective antineoplastic therapy not available
Symptomatic pericardial effusion
Patients medically fit
Failure of antineoplastic therapy/pericardiodesis
Constrictive pericarditis due to radiation/neoplastic
Pericardial constriction
Patients medically fit with a reasonable chance for long-term
survival

60–90% within 1 month
25% within 1 mo
5–10% within 1 month

<5%

Chapter 19:

mesothelioma. A computer-assisted tomography (CAT) scan
of the chest is also useful, particularly in the setting of a
newly diagnosed effusion, to define fluid loculations, mediastinal and/or hilar lymphadenopathy, pleural masses, and
parenchymal disease. A bronchoscopy is indicated if an endobronchial lesion is suspected or if there is any radiographic
sign of pulmonary atelectasis. Magnetic resonance imaging
(MRI) may be helpful to define chest wall tumor invasion in
the presence of malignant pleura effusion.
Thoracentesis is required to obtain pleural fluid for
biochemical and cytological analysis, to relieve symptoms,
and to determine the extent of lung expansion following
pleural fluid drainage. MPEs are usually exudative (LDH >
200 U/ml, total protein > 3 g/dl, fluid:serum LDH ratio > 0.6
or fluid:serum protein ratio > 0.5) and contain red blood cells
in one-third of cases. Low values of pleural fluid pH or
glucose are associated with poorer prognosis. The first cytological examination is diagnostic in approximately 50% of
patients. The diagnostic sensitivity of cytological examination
is higher in patients with a previously known malignancy
and may be improved with repeated thoracentesis. When
multiple cytological examinations of pleural fluid are nondiagnostic, a pleural biopsy may be performed. Both thoracoscopic and image-guided biopsies have a far higher
diagnostic yield than blind pleural biopsy (diagnostic in only
7–12% of cases). Thoracotomy is rarely necessary (16,18).

Treatment
Patients with malignant pleura effusion who have potentially responsive tumors should receive specific antineoplastic therapy as the primary therapeutic approach. It should
be noted that pleural effusions of highly chemotherapysensitive tumors (i.e., lymphomas) may occasionally worsen
with the first cycle of treatment and subsequently resolve.
Therefore, in these tumor types, a rapid increase in the
effusion following the initiation of therapy does not necessarily portend treatment failure. Thoracentesis is highly
effective for acute relief of symptoms, but effusion recurrence occurs in 98% of patients within 30 days. Therefore,
obliteration of the pleural space either by parietal pleurectomy or by the instillation of sclerosing agents is required
for sustained relief. Response rates of 50% to 90%, defined
as absence of fluid reaccumulation at one month, have been
reported with tube thoracostomy followed by chemical
pleurodesis. This requires complete pleural fluid drainage
and reexpansion of the lung to allow apposition of the
visceral and parietal pleura. The more recent use of smallbore catheters instead of the classical chest tubes seems to
be equally effective, with less associated morbidity. Many
different sclerosing agents have been employed, including
talc, antibiotics (tetracycline, doxicycline, minocycline),
antineoplastic drugs (bleomycin, doxorubicin, mitoxantrone,
cisplatin, cytarabine), and biologic agents (interferon,
interleukin-2, Corynebacterium parvum, streptococcal preparations) (16,19). The most extensively studied include tetracyclines, bleomycin, and talc. Several small randomized
studies have shown talc to be more effective than tetracycline and bleomycin, and bleomycin to be superior to
tetracycline. Although talc appears to be the most efficacious
and inexpensive agent, most of the published experience
involves its insufflation through a thoracoscope under general
anesthesia, which increases costs and morbidity. For these

Medical Emergencies

331

reasons, some authors consider bleomycin the alternative
of choice. More recently, talc has been used by aerosolization through a chest tube. A randomized CALGB study has
demonstrated that it has similar efficacy than thoracoscopic talc insufflation while associated with improved
safety profile and quality of life. The most common side
effects of talc pleurodesis are fever (16%) and pain (7%).
Empyema, pneumonitis, and respiratory failure may be
observed rarlely (20).
For malignant pleura effusion refractory to pleurodesis
or associated with trapped lung, placement of an indwelling
pleural catheter under local anesthesia may be considered,
which allows intermittent drainage of effusions for prolonged
periods of time on an outpatient basis. Randomized trials
have shown this procedure has similar safety and efficacy
than doxycycline sclerotherapy, requiring less hospitalization.
Other alternative is a pleuroperitoneal shunt, which permits
the patient to manually empty the pleural fluid into the
peritoneal cavity and is associated with few complications
and a success rate of 75% (16,19) (Fig. 19.1). However, the
need for active pumping of the chamber a minimum of
400 times per day limits its usefulness to patients with excellent performance status. Finally, although effective in nearly
100% of cases, pleurectomy is rarely indicated because of its
elevated morbidity (25%) and mortality (10%). It may be
considered in patients with refractory effusions and trapped
lung and significant expectation of survival or for those submitted to thoracotomy for other reasons (e.g., diagnosis).

Massive Hemoptysis
Etiopathogenesis
Massive hemoptysis is defined as expectoration of 600 ml
or more of blood in 24 hours, or bleeding into the respiratory tree at a rate that presents a threat to life. Massive
hemoptysis is uncommon, occurring in fewer than 5% of
all patients with hemoptysis—but when it does occur, it is
frequently fatal (35–70%) (21–23).
The most common causes of massive hemoptysis are
tuberculosis, bronchiectasis, lung abscess, aspergilloma, and
neoplasia. Bronchogenic carcinoma is the leading cause in
patients older than 40 years. Although hemoptysis occurs
with equal frequency among the different histological types
of primary lung cancer, massive hemoptysis is most frequently associated with epidermoid carcinoma. These
tumors tend to be large and angioinvasive, and to undergo
spontaneous necrosis and cavitation. Bronchial adenomas
may also produce massive hemoptysis because of their rich
vascularity. Upper airway tumors, pulmonary metastases
(from melanoma, breast, colon, or kidney cancer), and sarcomas rarely cause massive bleeding (21–23). Finally,
hemoptysis in cancer patients may be also caused by nonmalignant conditions, such as fungal infections, thrombocytopenia, or other coagulation disorders. Some new
antiangiogenic agents currently used in cancer care, such as
bevacizumab, also increase the risk of bleeding, particularly
in patients with central squamous lung cancer.

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
Massive expectoration of blood may produce symptoms
secondary to hypovolemia and interference with alveolar
gas exchange. Asphyxiation, rather than exanguination, is

332

Section III: Supportive Aspects

Identify primary tumor

Is it responsive to antineoplastic therapy?

Yes

No

Chemotherapy and/
or radiotherapy

Is the patient symptomatic
from the effusion?

Yes

No

Is the mediastinum shifted
toward the ipsilateral side?

Observe

Yes

No

Bronchoscopy

Bronchial obstruction?

Yes

No

Therapeutic thoracocentesis

Laser therapy or
radiotherapy to
relieve obstruction

Symptoms relieved?

Yes

No

Lung expands?

Treat symptomatically
with opiates/oxygen

Yes
Pleurodesis

Figure 19.1

No
Indwelling pleural catheter
pleuroperitoneal shunt

Management of malignant pleural effusions.

the principal threat. Assessment of respiratory and hemodynamic status and identification of the site of hemorrhage
are the major objectives of diagnosis and management.
Other sites of bleeding (oropharyngolaryngeal or gastrointestinal tract) must be excluded. All patients with massive
hemoptysis should undergo bronchoscopy, preferably during
the active hemorrhage, to determine the site and cause.

Treatment
The most urgent measure in cases of massive hemoptysis
is to maintain the patient’s airway patency. Traditionally,
the rigid bronchoscope has been the technique of choice

for the evaluation and management of massive hemoptysis,
because of its larger diameter and better ability to suction,
administer oxygen, and control the airway. The requirement of general anesthesia and the inability to visualize
the upper lobe bronchi are its major drawbacks. Flexible
fiberoptic bronchoscopy, in contrast, allows the inspection
of a much larger area of the bronchial tree and may be
carried out under local anesthesia, although its ability to
suction large amounts of blood and maintain oxygenation
is more limited. Selective bronchial intubation of the unaffected lung and tamponade of the bleeding site with a
balloon occlusion catheter (Fogarty) may be performed

Chapter 19:

during bronchoscopy (22,23). General supportive measures
should also be promptly instituted, such as rest, semiupright positioning or positioning bleeding-side-down to
prevent aspiration into the nonaffected lung, mild sedation,
humidified oxygen, intravenous fluids, blood transfusion,
and correction of coagulation disorders if they exist.
Surgical resection of the bleeding pulmonary segment remains the optimal definitive treatment of massive
hemoptysis. Patients with controlled hemorrhage at the
time of surgery have a mortality rate of 1% to 17%,
whereas those with uncontrolled bleeding have a mortality rate of 20% to 40%. However, mortality rates of
patients with massive hemoptysis managed with conservative nonsurgical measures have been reported to be
50% to 100% (21–23).
In patients who are not surgical candidates owing to
poorly localized or nonlocalized bleeding, extensive neoplasm, prior pulmonary resection or inadequate pulmonary
reserve, comorbid conditions, or overall prognosis, several
nonoperative approaches may be effective in controlling
active bleeding. Iced saline lavage through the rigid bronchoscope, prolonged tamponade with a Fogarty balloon
catheter, or Nd:YAG laser therapy have been used successfully. Bronchial artery catheterization and embolization has
been reported to control hemoptysis in up to 80% of
patients. Currently, the most widely used particles for
embolization are polyvinyl alcohol particles, which are nonbiodegradable permanent embolic agents. The principal
adverse effects of this procedure are spinal cord injury due
to accidental embolization of the anterior spinal artery, and,
less frequently, accidental visceral and extremity embolization. Hemoptysis may recur in up to 20% of patients. Recurrent bleeding during the first six months following
embolization is usually due to undetected bronchial and
systemic collaterals caused by diffuse pulmonary disease.
Late recurrence is usually due to disease progression.
Finally, palliative radiotherapy (e.g., 10 Gy × 1) may be of
value, benefiting 50% to 60% of patients with hemoptysis
and lung cancer (21–23).

Airway Obstruction
Etiopathogenesis
Bronchial or lower airway obstruction is a frequent event
in cancer patients, but is rarely life-threatening. Upper airway obstruction (hypopharynx, larynx, and trachea to the
carina), in contrast, is less frequently encountered but represents a real oncological emergency.
Upper airway obstruction may result from multiple
benign conditions that may be associated with malignancy,
such as aspiration of a foreign body or food, tracheomalacia, tracheal stenosis, or edema, or, most commonly, may
be caused directly by tumors involving the base of the
tongue, tonsils, hypopharynx, larynx, thyroid, or the upper
mediastinum. Primary tracheal neoplasms less often produce airway obstruction. In most instances, upper airway
obstruction occurs in patients with a known diagnosis of
cancer, although occasionally it may be the presenting sign
of a small critically located lesion. The main cause of lower
airway obstruction is primary carcinoma of the lung. Far
less often, bronchial obstruction is caused by endobronchial mestastasis from carcinomas of the breast, colon, or
kidney or from melanoma (21,24).

Medical Emergencies

333

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
The clinical manifestations of airway obstruction depend
on the severity and location of the obstruction. Patients
with upper airway obstruction usually present with dyspnea,
apprehension, cough, drooling, stridor, diaphoresis, and
tachycardia. In severe cases, the patient may become cyanotic
and obtunded, bradycardia may develop, and stridor may
disappear. Diagnosis and intervention are based solely on
the clinical condition of the patient (25).
Lower airway obstruction frequently causes postobstructive pneumonitis. Dyspnea, hemoptysis, cough, fever,
and wheezing are common findings. A chest X-ray or CT
scan may reveal the presence of the tumor, pneumonic
consolidations, atelectasis, or even lung collapse. In patients
with unknown previous malignancy and a suspicious
lesion on chest X-ray or a torpid response of a pneumonic
consolidation to adequate antibiotic therapy, a bronchoscopy
must be performed (25).

Treatment
In cases of acute life-threatening upper airway obstruction,
urgent evaluation by an otolaryngologist and emergency
low tracheostomy are indicated. Adjunct therapy with corticosteroids to reduce edema, supplemental oxygen and
bronchodilators may also be useful. Once the airway patency has been addressed, a more thorough assessment of
the underlying malignancy should be performed, to establish a specific treatment. Depending upon the histologic
type, the site and extension of the neoplasm, and previous
therapy, surgery, radiotherapy, and/or chemotherapy may
be considered (21,24,25).
Lower airway obstruction does not usually require
an emergency reestablishment of airway patency. Initial
management should include supportive measures, such as
supplemental oxygen, corticosteroids and bronchodilators,
and antibiotics if there is any associated infection. Specific
therapy for primary bronchial obstruction comprises surgery, radiotherapy, and/or chemotherapy, depending on
tumor type and stage, and the patient’s performance status.
Placement of self-expandable metallic stents (SEMS), which
can be done under local anesthesia using fiberoptic bronchoscopy, is a widely used alternative approach that provides prompt and durable palliation in unresectable
patients with central airway obstruction. Uncovered stents,
however, have the potential for granulation tissue formation and tumor in-growth along the length of the stent
leading to re-occlusion of the lumen. The risk for these
complications is lower with covered SEMS. Other disadvantage of metal stents is the difficulty moving them once
deployed, making stent removal virtually impossible. Silicone stents are a cheaper alternative and have the advantage of being easily removed and exchanged when needed.
This may be relevant in patients who respond to systemic
antineoplastic therapy as their airway may be restored. The
most common complication is stent migration (9.5%), followed by granulation tissue formation (8%) and mucous
plugging (4%).
Recurrent endobronchial obstruction in patients who
have received previous external-beam radiotherapy may be
managed with several palliative approaches. Endoscopic
laser therapy is a relatively easy technique and may quickly
relieve symptoms in patients with incomplete obstruction of

334

Section III: Supportive Aspects

the trachea or mainstem bronchus. Obstruction recurrence,
however, tends to occur rapidly, and repeated laser applications are associated with poorer efficacy and greater risk of
complications. Potential adverse events include hemorrhage,
perforation, and tracheo-esophageal or bronchopleural fistula (21,26). Endobronchial brachytherapy with radioactive
isotopes (192Ir or 60Co) is another alternative for palliative
treatment. An additional 20 to 40 Gy may be safely administered in patients who have had prior external-beam irradiation. Palliation of symptoms may last longer than with
laser therapy (21,27).

GASTROINTESTINAL EMERGENCIES
Bowel Obstruction
Etiopathogenesis
Bowel obstruction along with gastrointestinal bleeding is
the most frequent reasons for emergency abdominal surgery in patients with malignancy. Neoplastic disease is the
cause of bowel obstruction in 60% to 95% of cancer patients,
in contrast to the 7% to 9% incidence of malignant obstruction in nonselected series. Colorectal, ovarian, and gastric
malignancies are the most common primary tumors in
patients who subsequently develop intestinal obstruction.
About 10% to 30% of patients with colorectal cancer and
20% to 50% of ovarian cancer patients present or eventually develop bowel obstruction. Intestinal involvement due
to metastatic cancer commonly presents as diffuse peritoneal carcinomatosis, being isolated gastrointestinal metastasis rarely observed. Breast cancer and melanoma are the
most common nonabdominopelvic tumors causing bowel
obstruction, which may occur many years since primary
diagnosis of disease. Benign conditions may account for
up 40% of cases of bowel obstruction in cancer patients,
adhesions due to previous interventions being the most
frequent cause. The site of obstruction is the small bowel
in 60% of cases (28).

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
Patients with bowel obstruction usually present with constipation, abdominal distension, crampy pain, and intractable emesis, which may be feculent in cases of large bowel
obstruction. Plain X-ray films of the abdomen (supine and
upright or left lateral decubitus) and chest are important
to confirm the diagnosis of bowel obstruction and to
exclude perforation. Contrast X-ray studies are necessary
only in selected cases (nondiagnostic plain abdominal
films, atypical clinical findings or protracted course despite
adequate management) and are contraindicated if perforation is suspected (28,29). Other radiological imaging, particularly CT, is also critical in determining the cause of
obstruction, localization and extension, and possible therapeutic interventions.

Treatment
The management of patients with malignant bowel
obstruction should be individually assessed, considering
tumor localization, extension and biology, expected success of subsequent antineoplastic therapy, patient’s functional status and overall prognosis, as well as his or her
goals of care. Because it is rarely a true emergency, time

can and should be taken to come up with an appropriate
treatment plan.
In the absence of fever, leukocytosis or peritonitis,
a trial of conservative therapy should be considered for
patients with bowel obstruction and incurable advanced
disease. Conservative measures include intravenous
hydration, correction of electrolyte imbalance, nasoenteric decompression and bowel rest, discontinuation or
at least decrease of any medications that may interfere
with bowel motility (especially narcotics), and treatment
of distressing symptoms such as nausea or pain. Nonoperative management is successful in 12% to 29% of
patients with cancer, although more than one-third of
these develop recurrent obstruction and may eventually
require surgical intervention. When conservative therapy
fails, palliative nonsurgical interventions or surgical
exploration are indicated.
The most commonly performed surgical procedures are bypass, stoma creation, and resection or lysis
of adhesions. Surgical relief of symptoms is achieved in
55% to 96% of patients, and recurrence occurs in 9% to
33%. However, patients with malignant bowel obstruction are often poor surgical candidates due to advanced
disease, malnutrition, hypoalbuminemia, and dehydration. In recent years, the armamentarium of endoscopic
options has broadened considerably and now affords
physicians a variety of nonsurgical means to palliate
malignant obstruction of the gastrointestinal tract, including percutaneous gastrostomy (PEG), decompression
tubes, endoscopic dilatation, enteral stents, and ablative
methods such as diathermy, photodynamic therapy, laser
therapy, and argon plasma coagulation (28–31). Colonic
stenting is probably the most widely used option, either
alone or as a bridge to elective surgery. It reduces morbidity and mortality rates as compared with emergency
surgery and the need for colostomy formation; consequently, it is associated with shorter hospital stays and
lower costs.

Perforation
Etiopathogenesis
Gastrointestinal perforation is a frequent surgical emergency in cancer patients. Perforation at a site involved by
tumor is the cause in up to 60% of cases. Lymphoma is
the most frequent malignant process associated with gastrointestinal perforation, accounting for about 50% of
malignant causes. One-fifth of patients with primary gastrointestinal lymphoma develop perforation. Other less
common causes are gastric and colon cancers. Occasionally,
extraabdominal tumors such as melanoma and breast,
lung, or ovarian cancers may metastasize to the intestinal
wall and cause perforation. New antiangiogenic drugs
recently developed for the treatment of cancer, such as
bevacizumab, increase the risk for gastrointestinal perforation in patients with colorectal cancer, particularly when
the primary tumor has not been surgically removed. Benign
processes may also cause gastrointestinal perforation, such
as peptic ulcer, postsurgical bowel anastomosis disruption,
colonoscopy, colostomy irrigation, radiation enteritis, neutropenic colitis, diverticulitis, infection (cytomegalovirus,
Clostridium difficile), and perforation proximal to an
obstructing lesion (28).

Chapter 19:

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
Although contained perforations may present with moderate abdominal pain, most perforations freely communicate
with the peritoneum and cause sudden severe abdominal
pain, ileus and abdominal distension, fever, hypotension,
tachycardia, and leukocytosis. Immunosuppression resulting from chemotherapy or steroid therapy may mask the
usual signs and symptoms of gastrointestinal perforation
and significantly delay diagnosis. Perforation of a hollow
viscera is confirmed by demonstration of free air under the
diaphragm on upright chest X-ray; however, 20% to 50%
of patients with gastrointestinal perforation do not have
free intraperitoneal air visualized. Gastrografin contrast
X-ray studies and CT imaging may be useful in localizing
the site of perforation and in planning surgery (28).

Treatment
Besides initial nasogastric decompression, fluid resuscitation, and broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy, prompt surgical intervention is mandatory in cases of gastrointestinal
perforation. Gastroduodenal perforations are generally
caused by acute ulceration, and are repaired with an omental patch. Chronic gastric ulcers should be biopsied and, if
a frozen section shows malignancy, resected. Resection and
primary anastomosis is the treatment of choice of most
small bowel perforations. Perforations of the large bowel
generally require resection, colostomy, and Hartman’s procedure or mucous fistula. Intra-abdominal abscesses, which
are frequently associated with chronic perforations, require
aggressive surgical drainage (28,32).

Bleeding
Etiopathogenesis
The majority of gastrointestinal bleeding episodes in
patients with malignancy are associated with benign processes. Gastritis and peptic ulcer disease (44–76%), followed by esophagitis and esophageal varices (11–17%), are
the most common causes of gastrointestinal bleeding in
cancer patients. Other conditions that less frequently produce gastrointestinal bleeding include Mallory–Weiss syndrome precipitated by chemotherapy-induced vomiting,
viral enteritis, diverticulosis, angiodysplasia, and inflammatory bowel disease. Tumors are the source of bleeding
in fewer than 25% of patients (32,33).

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
Upper gastrointestinal bleeding generally presents as
hematemesis and melena, while hematochezia (recognizable blood mixed with stool) strongly suggests a bleeding
source distal to the right colon. Orthostatic hypotension
occurs when rapid blood loss exceeds 20% of blood volume. Tachycardia, hypotension, restlessness, and peripheral vasoconstriction are signs of shock, and indicate that
supportive measures must be instituted immediately.
Whether bleeding is proximal or distal to the ligament of Treitz determines diagnostic and therapeutic
modalities. If upper gastrointestinal bleeding is suspected,
a nasogastric tube should be placed, and the stomach
lavaged with room-temperature saline. Nasogastric tube
aspiration is easy to perform and gives useful information:

Medical Emergencies

335

when positive, the bleeding source is proximal to the
ligament of Treitz; when negative, a source proximal to
the pylorus can be confidently excluded. Identification of
a site of intraluminal bleeding should be attempted with
esophagogastroduodenoscopy, proctosigmoidoscopy, or
colonoscopy, depending on the site of bleeding. Upper
gastrointestinal bleeding can be diagnosed accurately
with oral endoscopy in up to 95% of patients. Capsule
endoscopy may be indicated in patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin after initial negative
upper endoscopy and colonoscopy. The major advantage
of endoscopy is that various therapeutic modalities may
be used at the same time. If these techniques do not reveal
the source of bleeding, other imaging studies are warranted. A technetium 99m-labelled red cell scan can localize the site of bleeding in 83% of patients if they are
scanned sequentially at appropriately close intervals,
since most hemorrhages are intermittent and the test
material stays in the circulation for 24 to 48 hours.
Angiography visualizes active bleeding at a rate >1 ml/
min, and is diagnostic in only 50% to 65% of patients. It
has the therapeutic advantage of allowing vasopressin
infusion or embolization to control hemorrhage and is
most useful when the suspected location is out of reach
of conventional endoscopes (hemobilia or small bowel
bleeding) (33,34).

Treatment
Since the majority of bleeding episodes from nonmalignant causes stop spontaneously, in most cases initial treatment consists of conservative medical management, which
includes volume repletion and red cell transfusion, correction of coagulation and platelet abnormalities, and, in
the case of upper gastrointestinal bleeding, gastric lavage
with room-temperature saline to evacuate clotted blood
and decompress the stomach, elimination of chemical
offenders (nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents, steroids,
etc.), and initiation of surface-protective agents (antacids,
H2-receptor blockers, proton-pump inhibitors). If these
conservative measures fail, endoscopic therapy with thermal contact devices or laser or injection treatments should
be attempted. Intravenous infusions of vasopressin (especially for diffuse bleeding) or angiographic embolization
are alternative options when endoscopic therapy is not
effective or not feasible (small bowel bleeding). Surgery
is indicated for failure of hemostasis after exhaustion of
nonoperative treatment when a discrete source has been
demonstrated or there is massive bleeding. Peptic ulcers
that need surgical intervention are best treated with truncal vagotomy, pyloroplasty, and oversewing with plication of the ulcer bed. In cases of small bowel or colonic
hemorrhage, resection of the involved bowel is generally
simple and curative. Resection of a bleeding tumor is the
preferred approach, when feasible, if a neoplastic lesion
is the source of bleeding. When resection is not amenable,
other operative alternatives should be considered, such as
packing, direct suture ligation, ligation of arterial inflow,
application of topical hemostatic agents, or fibrin glue
delivered as an aerosolized spray. Angiographic embolization may be also used. Patients with widely metastatic
disease are probably best managed with conservative
measures (33,34).

336

Section III: Supportive Aspects

UROLOGICAL EMERGENCIES
Hematuria
Etiopathogenesis
In most cancer patients, hematuria is associated with the
presence of an indwelling device such as a Foley urethral
catheter or a double-J ureteral stent. Local trauma from the
catheter or bacterial urinary tract infection associated with
a foreign body frequently causes minor hematuria. Simple
urinary tract infection may also produce minor hematuria.
Gross hematuria, however, is often caused by urinary
tract malignancies (kidney, urothelial tract, or prostate) or
may be secondary to direct invasion of the urinary tract by
colorectal and female genital cancers, or pelvic sarcomas
(35,36). In addition, iatrogenic hemorrhagic cystitis is commonly observed as a side effect of chemotherapy or radiotherapy (37). Rarely, benign conditions such as a renal
angiomyolipoma or an arteriovenous malformation are
sources of massive hematuria. Finally, disorders of hemostasis (thrombocytopenia, coagulation abnormalities, etc.) can
cause—or more often contribute to—significant hematuria.

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
The diagnosis of macroscopic hematuria is self-evident.
Symptoms frequently encountered include voiding symptoms (frequency, urgency, and dysuria) and symptoms due
to clot formation (pain or acute urinary retention). The evaluation should focus on risk factors (see Etiopathogenesis
section) and on pelvic and rectal examination. Required
laboratory tests include urinanalysis, urine culture, full
blood count, prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time,
blood urea nitrogen, and creatinine. In some cases, pelvic
and/or abdominal ultrasound, intravenous urography, and
cystoscopy are indicated.

Treatment
Patients with severe hematuria require intravenous hydration, blood transfusion in the presence of severe anemia,
discontinuation of anticoagulants, correction of coagulopathies, and insertion of a large-diameter urethral catheter
(20–24°F) to allow bladder lavage and clot evacuation. If
lavage is not effective, cystoscopy is indicated to disrupt the
clots, inspect the urethra and bladder for a controllable
source of bleeding, and fulgurate any bleeding vessels or
tumor.
Further management depends on the primary diagnosis, extent of the tumor and prior treatment (36,37). Hematuria and urethral obstruction due to prostate cancer can
generally be controlled by external-beam radiotherapy, or by
transurethral resection and fulguration of the tumor. When
massive hematuria is the result of a bladder carcinoma, transurethral resection, semi-emergency cystectomy, a Helmstein
hydrostatic balloon or hypogastric artery embolization may
be required. Treatment-related hematuria may require specific systemic therapy (e.g., mesna following hemorrhage
caused by oxazophosphorines) or local measures (formalin
instillations or 1% alum, hyperbaric oxygen).

Urinary Tract Obstruction
Oliguria and anuria are common problems in severely ill
cancer patients with a wide range of diagnoses. Acute

parenchymal injuries from a variety of toxic insults to the
kidney, including anticancer drugs and other pharmacological agents, are frequent causes of oliguria and azotemia.
Prerenal factors such as poor renal perfusion secondary to
hypotension and low cardiac output may also be involved.
However, many cases of renal failure in cancer patients are
due to mechanical obstruction of the ureters or bladder
neck by a variety of neoplastic processes.

Upper Tract Obstruction
Etiopathogenesis. Malignancy and stones are the two
most common causes of upper urinary tract obstruction in
cancer patients. Malignant ureteral obstruction may be
caused by direct invasion of the ureteral wall by extrinsic
compression by tumor or lymphatic metastases, or, rarely,
by direct metastases to the ureter (35,36). Gynecological,
prostate, urothelial, and colorectal cancers are commonly
responsible (>80%). Other tumors such as breast or testicular carcinomas and lymphomas metastasize to the retroperitoneum or retroperitoneal lymph nodes and can
produce the same picture. Benign causes of obstruction
include radiation-induced retroperitoneal or periureteral
fibrosis (1–3% at 20 years in patients with prostate or cervical cancer or Hodgkin’s disease), surgical injury, and
intrinsic ureteral obstruction following inadequately treated
tumor lysis syndrome.
Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis. Clinical presentation depends upon the degree and rate of ureteral obstruction and on whether it affects one or both renoureteral
systems. Acute obstruction of a ureter is generally manifested by severe flank pain produced by distension of the
renal capsule and collecting system, or, less often, due to
hyperperistalsis of the ureter. In contrast, chronic unilateral
obstruction is usually asymptomatic and is detected incidentally during an X-ray evaluation. Bilateral ureteral obstruction (acute or chronic) is followed by oliguria and azotemia
(weakness, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, mental status disturbances, etc.). Hematuria, nonspecific voiding symptoms (frequency, dysuria, incontinence), a palpable abdominal mass,
and anuria are less commonly observed. For upper tract
obstruction to result in renal dysfunction, the process must
affect both kidneys, a solitary kidney or kidneys that are
already partially compromised. Fever may be associated
with urinary tract infection and sepsis, and ureteral fistula
may lead to recurrent infection and abscesses.
In patients without symptomatic renal failure, renal
disfunction is often discovered on routine blood chemistry
analysis or ureteral obstruction is incidentally found on
imaging procedures performed for other purposes. Less
frequently, signs or symptoms of uremia may develop.
During the initial evaluation, other causes of renal failure
(prerenal or parenchymatous) need to be ruled out. Anuria
secondary to urethral obstruction or a neurogenic bladder
must be also excluded by bladder catheterization. Routine
blood chemistry and urinanalysis will reveal the degree of
renal dysfunction and electrolyte imbalances. Ultrasonography is a rapid, easy and readily available noninvasive
method for diagnosing obstruction (hydronephrotic renal
pelvis and intrarenal collecting system) (35,36). However,
a negative examination does not rule out a ureteral obstruction, since marked dilatation of the proximal urinary tract

Chapter 19:

Medical Emergencies

337

may be delayed. Other tests that may be indicated include
a CT scan, radionuclide scans, intravenous pyelogram, cystoscopy, and retrograde pyeloureterograms. This last
exploration should be performed under sedation or light
general anesthesia by a urologist, and is the most reliable
method for diagnosing postrenal obstruction.

reflux of contrast into the renal pelvis. Stent incrustations
and obstruction may be minimized by hydration, treatment
of infections, and frequent stent changes (every two to
three months). Finally, long-term catheters may break,
complicating their removal and replacement (38,39).

Treatment. Before instituting therapy for malignant
ureteral obstruction, consideration must be given to the histology, treatment options and prognosis of the primary neoplasm, the presence of symptoms (e.g., pain or fever), the
quality of life, and the socio-economic impact of prolonging
the patient’s life. The basis of treatment of malignant urinary
obstruction includes general supportive therapy for renal
failure (fluid balance, treatment of pH and electrolytic disturbances, hemodialysis if required, etc.), specific therapy of
the primary neoplasm and measures of urinary diversion.
Urinary diversion may be accomplished by means of
endoscopic, percutaneous, or surgical techniques (38,39).
Endourological techniques allow the insertion of ureteral
catheters or stents to bypass the obstructed ureter, dilatation of ureteral strictures, or removal of ureteral stones.
Nowadays, internal indwelling flexible synthetic (silicone
or polyurethane) stents with a double-J configuration (one
end coiled in the bladder and the other end coiled in the
renal pelvis) are most frequently used.
A percutaneous nephrostomy may also be performed
under local or general anesthesia using ultrasonic guidance. A simple nephrostomy tube may be placed, or an
indwelling ureteral stent may be passed anterogradely over
a guidewire into the bladder, even if the retrograde
approach has previously failed. Combination catheters
with both distal (internal) and proximal (external) drainage
capabilities are also available. Ideally, a percutaneous
nephrostomy tube is replaced with an indwelling stent,
which is more comfortable for the patient and is associated
with fewer infections. The nephrostomy tube is clamped
for 24 to 48 hours to ensure adequate internal drainage
before removal, and the internal stents may subsequently
be changed cystoscopically without repeating percutaneous
procedures (38,39).
Open surgical procedures are associated with numerous complications. However, if endoscopic and percutaneous techniques fail, they may be considered in good
prognosis patients. These include ureterolysis, cutaneous
ureterostomy or nephrostomy, ureteral reimplantation into
the bladder, creation of an intestinal conduit, and transureteroureterostomy (normal contralateral ureter). In rare
instances, a nephrectomy may be required.
Once a urinary diversion has been performed, particular attention should be paid to postobstructive diuresis
and natriuresis. Volume status and blood pressure should
be monitored, as well as metabolic abnormalities.
The primary complications associated with either
cystoscopic or percutaneous placement of ureteral stents
are bleeding, infection, and obstruction. Bleeding is almost
always minor and self-limiting. Although urinary tract
infections should be treated with antibiotics, long-term use
of antibiotics is not indicated, since sterilization is impossible and resistant organisms frequently develop. Stent
incrustations and obstruction may occur; stent patency
should be monitored by blood urea nitrogen and creatinine
levels, and cystography, which normally demonstrates

Lower Tract Obstruction
Etiopathogenesis. Bladder outlet obstruction leading
to urinary retention is common in cancer patients and may
be caused by mechanical factors involving the bladder neck
or prostate, such as benign prostatic hyperplasia, urethral
strictures, prostate, rectal or bladder cancer, or to a breakdown in the neurophysiologic function of the bladder. Urinary retention is observed in up to one-third of patients
that undergo extensive pelvic surgery, such as abdominoperineal resection or radical hysterectomy, although nervesparing procedures have significantly reduced this risk.
Iatrogenic causes of urinary retention such as anticolinergic
drugs or Foley catheter obstruction should be excluded
(35,36).
Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis. The main symptom of urinary retention is the inability to void. Occasionally, patients present incontinence due to overflow from
the full bladder. Physical examination may reveal suprapubic tenderness and fullness. Ultrasound generally confirms the diagnosis.
Treatment. Urinary catheter placement rapidly
relieves obstruction. Occasionally, cystoscopy is required
to place the catheter. In difficult cases, suprapubic tube
placement under ultrasound guidance may be performed.
Patients are often effectively treated with a variety of pharmacologic agents, such as alpha-adrenergic receptor blockers. Chronic intermittent catheterization is preferred when
feasible to permanent catheterization in these often debilitated patients (35,36).

NEUROLOGICAL EMERGENCIES
Increased Intracranial Pressure
Etiopathogenesis
The skull is a closed space containing three relatively noncompressible substances: blood, brain, and cerebrospinal
fluid. Consequently, small volume increases of any of these
substances easily lead to increased intracranial pressure.
When the intracranial pressure reaches levels that compromise cerebral perfusion or cause a shift in intracranial contents that distorts brainstem centers, patients may rapidly
deteriorate and die.
Brain metastases are the most frequent cause of
increased intracranial pressure in cancer patients. In adults,
the most common metastatic tumors in the brain are lung
(40%) and breast cancer (15%) (40). Other neoplasms frequently encountered include melanoma, renal, testicular, and
gastrointestinal carcinomas. Cerebral volume may increase
also as a consequence of hemorrhage, ischemia, infection, or
autoimmune inflammatory processes. Intratumoral bleeding
occurs more commonly in melanomas, choriocarcinomas,
renal cell carcinomas, and papillary thyroid cancer. Coagulopathies predispose to subdural bleeding. Patients with leukemias and blast counts more than 4 × 105/μl can develop

338

Section III: Supportive Aspects

diffuse cerebral edema and increased intracranial pressure
due to leukostasis. Subependimal or leptomeningeal masses
located at “bottle-neck” of spinal fluid pathways such as the
foramen of Monro or the aqueduct of Sylvius also raise pressure by obstructing spinal fluid flow. Leptomeningeal carcinomatosis leads to communicating hydrocephalus due to
decreased reabsorption of spinal fluid. Dural sinus stenosis
from dural metastases, as well as dural sinus thrombosis or
extracranial venous outflow obstruction (internal jugular vein
or superior vena cava compression) may also cause increased
intracranial pressure.

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
General symptoms of high intracranial pressure include
headache (typically a constant ache that worsens on waking),
nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, and blurred vision from
papilledema. However, if pressure elevation is diffuse, the
patient may be asymptomatic. In general, slowly expanding
neoplasms produce fewer symptoms than those that are
rapidly enlarging. Focal neurological deficits and seizures
may occur, depending upon the location of tumor deposits.
Patients with chronically elevated intracranial pressure may
develop cognitive decline, precipitate micturition, and gait
apraxia.
Pressure gradients between different cranial compartments may develop and produce brain herniation syndromes.
Transtentorial temporal lobe (uncal) herniation usually compresses the ipsilateral brainstem, causing a depressed level
of consciousness, ipsilateral dilated pupil, and contralateral
hemiplegia. Tonsillar herniation is rare, but may compress
the brainstem, causing a stiff neck, a depressed level of consciousness, and eventually death. Shift of the anterior cingulate gyrus under the falx cerebri (subfalcian herniation) is
often asymptomatic. If posterior fossa lesions block cerebrospinal fluid pathways, hydrocephalus with expansion of
the ventricles and compression of the brain occurs, causing
headache and a depressed level of consciousness.
The diagnosis of increased intracranial pressure is suggested by the symptoms and signs listed above, and imaging studies generally confirm the diagnosis and provide
relevant etiologic information. The most readily available
study is a brain CT scan, which is useful to define the
number, size, and location of lesions, and also reveals
whether there is associated edema, hemorrhage, shift of the
midline structures, or ventricular dilatation. MRI provides
more precise neuroanatomic information and may better
determine the cause of increased intracranial pressure. Spine
MRI should be considered in patients with unexplained
communicating hydrocephalus. If minute structural lesions
within or surrounding the cerebral aqueduct are suspected,
cerebrospinal fluid flow studies (Cine-MRI) may be
performed if available. Magnetic resonance is also an adequate method to visualize obstruction or infiltration of dural

Table 19.3

venous sinuses. Angiography is currently reserved for
exceptional indications. Cerebral perfusion may be monitored by transcranial Doppler sonography in patients with
increased intracranial pressure in intensive care units. Lumbar puncture should not be performed in any patient with
suspected or documented intracranial mass lesion accompanied by a mass effect. However, once the intracranial pressure
has been normalized, cerebrospinal fluid analysis may be
undertaken if indicated (i.e., cryptococcal meningitis).

Treatment
Acutely deteriorating patients with increased intracranial
pressure and in whom herniation is a threat and requires
immediate treatment (Table 19.3). Elevation of the head to
30 degrees provides optimal venous return and decreased
arterial pressure. Ensuring airway patency is of vital
importance. Most comatose patients will require intubation. Once the patient has been intubated, hyperventilation
[arterial PCO2, (PaCO2), lowered to 25–30 mmHg] is the most
effective method of lowering intracranial pressure by
inducing cerebral vasoconstriction and decreasing the brain
blood volume. The peak effect of hyperventilation occurs
within 2 to 30 minutes and persists for 48 to 72 hours, when
renal compensation of the respiratory alkalosis occurs.
Other maneuvers to reduce the intracranial pressure
include the elevation of serum osmolality with mannitol
(25–100 g intravenously; 20% solution) until serum osmolality reaches 320 mosmol/l. Above this level, significant
toxicity may occur. Steroids (e.g., dexamethasone 100 mg
intravenous bolus followed by 25 mg/6 hr) are administered acutely, but take hours to achieve their full effect.
They are effective agents when increased intracranial pressure is caused by vasogenic edema. Once treatment is
under way, an emergency CT scan should be performed.
Emergency surgery may be life-saving for patients with
brain metastases, intracranial hemorrhage, or other mass
lesions. Obstructive hydrocephalus constitutes a neurosurgical emergency. Rapid neurological deterioration with
cerebral herniation require immediate placement of an
external ventriculostomy. If the cause of fluid obstruction
cannot be definitively treated, a permanent drainage of
cerebrospinal fluid through a ventriculoperitoneal shunt or
endoscopic placement of a third ventriculostomy can be
considered. Shunting should be avoided in patients with
leptomeningeal carcinomatosis to avoid peritoneal tumor
seeding. However, most acutely decompensated patients
are stabilized by medical therapy, permitting definitive and
disease-specific treatment to be undertaken electively.
Most cases, notwithstanding, are less severe and do
not require such intensive therapy. Generally, the association of general measures (fluid restriction, avoidance of
hypotonic solutions, etc.) and steroid therapy (dexamethasone 10–20 mg initially, followed by 4 mg/4–6 hr) dramatically

Management of Severely Increased Intracranial Pressure

1. Mantain airway patency: intubate stuporous and comatose patients and lower PaCO2 to 25 mmHg
2. Mannitol: administer 25–100 g intravenously as soon as possible (20% solution)
3. Dexamethasone: administer 100 mg intravenously as soon as possible followed by 25 mg q6h
4. Emergency CT scan
5. Consider surgical decompression (if indicated and feasible)

Chapter 19:

improve symptoms of increased intracranial pressure. The
indication of anticonvulsants to all patients with central
nervous system malignant disease to prevent seizures is
controversial.
Tumor-specific treatment options include surgery,
radiotherapy and, less frequently, chemotherapy. The
selection of the most appropriate intervention for the individual patient is dependent upon a careful evaluation of
the extent of intracranial disease, as well as an understanding of patient and tumor characteristics that are important
determinants of prognosis. Patients with a solitary metastases in an operable location, good performance status,
control of the primary tumor, and absence of extracranial
metastases should undergo surgery (41). Surgical resection
plays also an important role in establishing the diagnosis
and reversing life-threatening complications from brain
metastases (intracranial hypertension, seizures, and focal
neurological deficits). Radiosurgery may provide an acceptable noninvasive alternative to surgical exeresis for patients
with fewer than three metastases and lesions smaller than
3 cm without a cystic component or obstructive hydrocephalus (42). This therapeutic approach also offers the potential of treating patients with surgically inaccessible tumors.
Whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) after surgery or radiosurgery improves local control of brain metastases although
it does not have an impact on patient’s survival and its
potential long-term neurocognitive morbidity is not negligible (40–43). WBRT alone is the treatment of choice in
patients with multiple brain metastases or an active systemic disease and in patients with single brain metastasis
not amenable to surgery or radiosurgery (40,43). Cranial
irradiation provides improvement or reversal of neurological symptoms in about 70% of patients that often lasts
for the rest of their lives. Finally, the role of chemotherapy
in the treatment of brain metastases is restricted to certain
tumor types that are particularly sensitive to cytotoxic
drugs, such as germ cell tumors, lymphoma, breast cancer,
and small cell lung carcinoma.

Spinal Cord Compression
Etiopathogenesis
Compression of the spinal cord or cauda equina by tumor
is, after brain metastasis, the most common neurological
complication of advanced cancer. It affects about 5% to
10% of all cancer patients, and in up to 20% of cases, it is
the first manifestation of malignancy (mostly non-Hodgkin
lymphoma, myeloma, and lung cancer). This complication
is particularly relevant in clinical practice, since it may lead
to irreversible functional loss (paraplegia, incontinence)
with important consequences for patients’ quality of life
and survival.
Spinal cord compression may be caused by epidural,
leptomeningeal, or intramedullar metastases. The majority
of cases result from vertebral body hematogenous metastasis with secondary extension into the epidural space. Lung,
breast, and prostate cancers usually produce spinal cord
compression through this mechanism. Sometimes, a tumor
metastasizes to the epidural space without bone involvement. About 10% to 15% of cases of epidural spinal cord
compression are due to direct extension of paraspinal tumors
(lymphoma, myeloma, soft tissue sarcoma, head and neck
and colon cancers) through intervertebral foramina to the

Medical Emergencies

339

lateral epidural space. Less often, spinal cord compression
may develop from direct invasion of the spinal cord by
primary spinal cord tumors (neurilemmomas, meningiomas,
gliomas, etc.), by leptomeningeal infiltration (lung and breast
cancers, lymphoma, and leukemia) or by intramedullary
cord metastasis (lung and breast cancers, melanoma, and
lymphoma).
The distribution of spinal cord compression locations
correlates with the proportion of vertebral body mass in
each spinal segment (10% cervical, 70% thoracic, and 20%
lumbosacral). Two or more contiguous vertebral bodies are
involved by metastatic disease in about 25% of patients with
spinal cord compression. Synchronous unexpected sites of
epidural disease have been found in up to one-third of
patients in whom the whole axial skeleton is investigated.

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
Back pain is the first symptom of spinal cord compression
in more than 90% of patients (44). The pain is constant and
progressive, and may be local (at the involved area of the
spine), radicular (radiating into arm, trunk, or leg), or both.
The aching may be present several months before neurological signs develop and is exacerbated by coughing,
sneezing, the Valsalve maneuver, or flexion of the neck,
and is relieved by sitting. During physical examination, an
attempt should be made to reproduce the patient’s pain by
spine percussion, gentle neck flexion, and straight-leg raising
(Lasegue maneuver).
Motor dysfunction is the second most common initial
feature of epidural spinal cord compression, but it usually
follows the onset of pain by weeks to months. Weakness is
most obvious in proximal muscles of the lower extremities,
so the patient may complain of difficulty in rising from low
chairs or a toilet seat. At this stage of spinal cord compression, tone in the lower extremities is usually increased.
Deep tendon reflexes are hyperactive and the plantar
responses are extensor. Proximal weakness might suggest
myopathy, but in that disorder proximal upper extremities
are usually also weak, tendon reflexes and muscle tone are
normal and sensory changes are absent. When the conus
medullaris is the site of compression, bladder dysfunction
may be the first and only sign. Both the patient and the
physician may fail to recognize that frequent small voidings
may be a sign of urinary retention. However, the cauda
equina syndrome is typically characterized by asymmetric
painful lumbosacral polyradiculopathy, a patchy sensory
deficit corresponding to multiple lumbar and sacral nerve
roots, and bladder and bowel incontinence. This syndrome
should be distinguished from infiltration of the lumbosacral
plexus or the corresponding peripheral nerves originating
from it (femoral or sciatic nerve).
Sensory symptoms include numbness and paresthesias. A sensory level to pinprick should be determined.
Varicella zoster eruption may occur at the dermatological
level of epidural metastasis. More seldom, compression of
spinocerebellar pathways can lead to gait or truncal ataxia
mimicking cerebellar disease.
All cancer patients with back pain should be assumed
to have spinal cord compression until proven otherwise.
An urgent evaluation is indicated when physical examination suggests myelopathy, when X-ray films indicate
more than 50% vertebral body collapse or pedicle erosion

340

Section III: Supportive Aspects

(three-quarters of patients have epidural disease), or when
local and radicular pain are present (one-half of patients
have epidural disease). Differential diagnosis should be
made from other disorders that may mimic spinal cord
compression in patients with cancer, such as epidural or
subdural hemorrhage, epidural lipomatosis, bilateral plexopathy, muscle strain, disc herniation, spinal stenosis, and
osteoporotic compression fracture.
Plain X-ray films, CT and bone scans are not sufficiently sensitive for the diagnosis of spinal cord compression. Nowadays, MRI has become the imaging test of
choice. It allows imaging of the entire spine and visualization of the parenchyma of the spinal cord, and gives information regarding paraspinal disease. The technique is
noninvasive and very sensitive, and is able to demonstrate
small metastases to the vertebral column. Gadolinium contrast administration may cause vertebral body metastases
to become isointense with adjacent normal bone, obscuring
the lesion, so the scan should be performed before contrast
is administered, and regions of interest revisualized afterwards. When MRI is nondiagnostic or equivocal, further
imaging techniques may be required. Myelography is the
diagnostic procedure of choice when MRI is not available
or contraindicated. It may also be more effective in detecting small epidural deposits, particularly when they are
located laterally in the spinal canal. Bone scan is most useful as a screening procedure for bone metastases. However,
its lack of resolution and specificity is inadequate to appropriately diagnose and localize spinal cord compression.
When spinal cord compression is the first manifestation of
cancer, a whole body CAT scan (with positron emission
tomography if available) may be considered to determine
the extent of disease and help localize the primary tumor
to guide further diagnostic workup and therapy. Biopsy of
spinal bone metastases is mandatory prior to initiation of
therapy in patients with no other known tumor deposits
accessible to pathologic examination.

Treatment
The goals of treatment of spinal cord compression are palliation of pain, neurological improvement, and bone stabilization (45). Therapy is most effective if begun prior to
the onset of symptoms, and in the absence of neurological
deterioration. The degree of neurological recovery is
inversely proportional to the extent and duration of the
neurological deficit. Treatment should be instituted rapidly
and includes corticosteroids in nearly all patients. Radiation therapy, surgery, and/or chemotherapy should be
selectively used based on type, location, and stage of the
tumor, neurological status, prior treatment history, and
bone stability. Palliative symptomatic therapy may be the
only care provided in patients with widespread disease
and poor performance status.
Corticosteroids. Corticosteroids may alleviate pain and
stabilize or improve neurological deficits through a transient, dose-dependent reduction in vasogenic spinal cord
edema. Less frequently, their oncolytic effect (particularly
in lymphoma) may relieve cord compression by shrinking
tumors. Pain is often relieved within hours, but neurological dysfunction usually responds less strikingly than when
corticosteroids are used to treat brain metastases. There is

no consensus regarding the best loading dose and maintenance regimen for steroids in the management of spinal
cord compression. After an initial intravenous bolus, doses
of up to 10 mg every six hours are most commonly used.
It is uncertain whether protocols using higher doses (initial
100 mg i.v. bolus followed by 96 mg divided into four doses
for three days with subsequent rapid taper) are more effective in achieving pain control or improving neurologic
symptoms, and they are associated with a higher incidence
of complications (gastroduodenal ulcer, insomnia, euphoria,
hallucinations, etc.). Higher doses may be used in patients
with severe neurological impairment at diagnosis or with
rapidly progressive motor symptoms.
Surgery. Surgical treatment has been traditionally
reserved for radioresistant tumors, symptomatic progression despite optimal radiotherapy, cord compression resulting from pathologic fracture, spinal instability, lack of a
prior histological diagnosis of cancer, posteriorly located
tumors or tumors located within previously irradiated
fields.
In the past, posterior exposure with simple laminectomy (removal of the posterior elements of the spinal column) at the level of cord compression has been a common
approach. However, most of the spinal metastases that
cause spinal cord compression are located in the vertebral
body, which is anterior to the spinal cord. Therefore, a
laminectomy does not remove the tumor and often does
not result in immediate decompression. In addition, laminectomy can cause secondary destabilization of the spine.
Thus, an anterior approach for surgical decompression is
favored in selected patients. This allows tumor resection
and spinal stabilization if necessary. Results of several
uncontrolled surgical series and one meta-analysis suggest
that direct decompressive surgery is superior to radiotherapy alone (45). More recently, a randomized trial has proven
that in appropriately selected cases, the percentage of
patients who were able to walk after treatment was significantly higher in the group that were treated with surgery and radiotherapy compared with the group that only
received radiotherapy (84% vs. 57%; p = 0.001), and their
functional status was maintained for a longer period of time
(46). In addition, overall survival was also significantly prolonged in the surgery group (median survival 126 vs.
100 days; p = 0.003). Therefore, the combination of a surgical approach and radiotherapy may be indicated in selected
patients with symptomatic spinal cord compression and
only one area of spinal cord compression.
Radiotherapy. Radiotherapy has been the most frequently utilized treatment for patients with spinal cord
compression, either alone (many patients are poor surgical
candidates due to comorbid conditions, advanced cancer
or multiple vertebral body metastases) or in combination
with surgery (45).
Once the site of spinal cord compression has been
identified, emergency radiotherapy is to be started to a
volume that includes two vertebral bodies above and
below that site. Alternatively, radiation treatment may be
initiated during the following two weeks of decompressive
surgery. Various schedules have been applied with comparable results. Most frequently used protocols generally
consist of 5 to 10 applications of 3 to 4 Gy. In the palliative

Chapter 19:

setting, single fractions of 8 Gy may be preferable. More
recently, stereotactic radiosurgery of spinal metastases has
shown to be feasible and is currently under clinical evaluation. Patients who recompress in-field after radiotherapy
may be considered for re-irradiation, especially if more
than six weeks have elapsed since the completion of their
last course.
Chemotherapy. With or without radiotherapy, cytotoxic therapy can be useful in some patients with chemosensitive tumors, most often lymphomas and occasionally
other solid tumors. All patients with spinal cord compression caused by a tumor for which effective antineoplastic
agents are available should be treated with these agents.
If pain is the only symptom, chemotherapy alone can be
tried first. If myelopathy is present, corticosteroids and
radiotherapy with or without surgery should be the primary therapeutic approach unless the tumor is known to
be exquisitively chemosensitive.

HEMATOLOGICAL EMERGENCIES
Febrile Neutropenia
Etiopathogenesis
Cancer patients are at increased risk for infection as a
consequence of immune function impairment and loss of
barrier integrity related to both their underlying malignancy and the toxic effects of anticancer therapy. The association of neutropenia and infection continues to be the
most common life-threatening complication of chemotherapy and a major cause of morbidity and mortality in this
patient population (47,48).
Febrile neutropenia is defined as a neutrophil count
of <500 cells/mm3 or a count of <1000 cells/mm3 with a
predicted decrease to <500 cells/mm3 in association with a
single oral temperature of ≥38.3°C (101°F) or a temperature
of ≥38.0°C (100.4°F) for ≥1 hour. The degree and duration
of neutropenia closely correlate with the risk of serious
infectious complications. Between 48% and 60% of neutropenic patients who become febrile have an established or
occult infection, and up to 20% of febrile patients with
neutrophil counts below 500/mm3 present bacteremia.
The major pathogens causing infection in neutropenic patients are predominantly bacteria and fungi that
normally colonize the body surfaces. Viral and parasitic
infections are much less common and usually develop in
patients with a greater degree of myelosuppression. There
has been, however, a significant change over the past
three decades in the pattern of pathogens involved in the
infectious complications of neutropenic patients. During
the 1960s through the mid 1970s, the majority of microbiologically documented infections in neutropenic patients
were caused by gram-negative bacilli, particularly Escherichia coli, Klebsiella spp., and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Since
then, however, gram-positive microorganisms have
emerged as the predominant pathogens, being now
responsible for up to two-thirds of bacteremias documented in neutropenic patients. The two major grampositive bacteria accounting for this change have been
coagulase negative staphylococci, mainly associated to the
widespread use of indwelling intravascular catheters, and
viridans streptococci, particularly in patients receiving prophylaxis with quinolones or with substantial mucosal

Medical Emergencies

341

damage from chemotherapy. In addition, some new
pathogens have emerged (Leuconostoc spp., Corynebacterium jeikeium, Rhodococcus spp., etc.) and are now responsible for an increasing proportion of infections in
neutropenic cancer patients.
Of greater concern is the emergence of antibioticresistant bacteria due to the widespread prophylactic and
therapeutic use of broad-spectrum antibiotics (48). In fact,
a very recent trend towards a growing incidence of gramnegative infections has been observed in some centers. It
is unclear, however, whether this could be due to a decreasing use of quinolone prophylaxis or rather with a greater
incidence of quinolone resistance. Furthermore, an increasing number of extended-spectrum β-lactamases are being
reported in Klebsiella spp., Enterobacter spp., and E. coli,
which render these organisms resistant to most β-lactams,
although most of them are still sensitive to fourth generation cephalosporins (cefepime) and to carbapenems. More
recently, β-lactamases that confer resistance to carbapenems have been identified in some gram-negative rods such
as P. aeruginosa and Acinetobacter spp. Quinolone-resistant
P. aeruginosa has also been described. Finally, there are
some strains of these nonfermenter gram-negative bacilli
and other pathogens such as Stenotrophomona maltophilia
that have been found to be resistant to all broad-spectrum
antibiotics empirically used for treatment of neutropenic
fever except polymyxins. Among gram-positive cocci,
oxacillin-resistant staphylococci and penicillin- and macrolideresistant Streptococcus pneumonie and viridans group streptococci are commonly encountered in many institutions. More
worrisome, however, is the emergence of enterococci (particularly Enterococcus faecium) with high-level resistance
to aminoglycosides (precluding the synergistic interaction
with penicillins), high-level resistance to ampicillin, and
resistance to vancomycin (VRE). VRE may account for up
to one-third of all enterococcal infections at some institutions, and are associated with high morbidity and
mortality rates. As the erradication of gastrointestinal
colonization by VRE is difficult to achieve, efforts to
prevent transmission are of utmost importance among
hospital personnel.
The prevalence of many of these infections is greatly
determined by antibiotic policies within institutions. On the
other hand, knowledge of the particular hospital epidemiological data regarding the relative incidence of different
pathogens and their antimicrobiological susceptibility
patterns is essential to select an adequate initial empirical
antibiotic regimen both for prophylaxis and treatment.
Appropriate surveillance monitoring to detect changes in a
timely manner and infection-control measures to reduce
intrahospital spread are also essential measures for infection
control.

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
Both the presentation and management of infection in the
neutropenic patient differ from infection in other settings.
Predominant sites of infection largely depend upon the
location and size of the tumor, and the site and nature of
medical devices and surgical procedures. However, signs
and symptoms of infection may be subtle because of the
diminished inflammatory response associated with myelosuppression, and fever is often the only presenting sign.

342

Section III: Supportive Aspects

Even a meticulous initial evaluation is able to identify the
source of infection in only one-third of the patients.
Baseline evaluation should include a detailed history
and physical examination, with careful documentation of
prior infectious complications, epidemiologic exposures,
concomitant medication associated with increased likelihood of opportunistic pathogens (i.e., corticosteroids,
cyclosporin), and type of chemotherapy regimen received
and time elapsed since its administration, as this can provide some estimate regarding the expected degree and
duration of neutropenia. Initial workup should also include
blood counts with differential leukocyte counts, blood and
urine chemistries, a chest radiograph, at least two sets of
blood cultures, and microbiological investigation of any
clinically suspicious site. If a central venous catheter is in
place, some investigators recommend to obtain blood samples for culture from each lumen and from a peripheral
vein, although a peripheral blood culture is believed to be
enough by others. Little information is usually gained from
routine cultures of the anterior nares, oropharynx, urine,
and rectum in the absence of symptoms. However, they
may provide useful information for epidemiologic infection
control purposes (i.e., anterior nasal cultures may reveal
colonization with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus Aureus,
penicillin-resistant pneumococcus or Aspergillus species;
rectal cultures may yield Pseudomonas aeruginosa, multidrugresistant gram-negative bacilli or vancomycin-resistant
enterococci). It is critical to reevaluate the patient regularly
during the febrile neutropenia episode to monitor response
to therapy and to identify evolving signs of infection that
may not have been present at baseline evaluation.

Treatment
Conventional Management. Because of the high likelihood of occult infection, and the potential for rapid progression to severe sepsis, empiric broad-spectrum antibiotic
therapy should be rapidly initiated in neutropenic patients
at the onset of fever. Indeed, prompt hospitalization and
administration of empirical broad-spectrum antibiotics has
effectively improved the outcome of these patients (47,48).
Several broad spectrum antibiotics can be safely used in
monotherapy for the treatment of fever and neutropenia,
including third- or fourth- generation cephalosporins (ceftazidime, cefepime), carbapenems (imipenem, meropenem),
and combinations of broad-spectrum penicillins with
β-lactamase inhibitors (piperacillin-tazobactam). A metaanalysis of 33 randomized trials comparing different antipseudomonal beta-lactams as empirical single-agent therapy
for febrile neutropenia concluded that cefepime was associated with slightly higher overall mortality, and carbapenems
with fewer treatment modifications but a higher rate of
adverse events, particularly pseudomembranous colitis (49).
Combination antibiotic therapy including an antipseudomonal
agent and an aminoglycoside does not improve outcome as
empirical therapy and results in increased toxicity; its use
should be therefore reserved for patients with hemodynamic
instability or at high risk for antibiotic-resistant gram-negative
bacterial infections, based on local susceptibility patterns or
individual patient’s history. Ciprofloxacin is an acceptable
alternative to aminoglycosides in patients with renal failure.
The combination of vancomycin plus aztreonam may be
considered in patients allergic to β-lactams.

If fever resolves, antibiotics should be continued
until resolution of neutropenia. If neutropenia persists,
treatment should be continued for a minimum of seven
days (14 days for some authors). A switch to oral regimens
(ciprofloxacin with amoxicillin/clavulanate) may be considered in clinically stable patients. Persistent fever per se
is not an indication to modify initial empirical antibacterial
regimen. Antibiotics should be modified based on clinical
evolution and/or microbiological findings. This is generally required in 30% to 50% of episodes.
Despite the increased incidence of infections caused
by gram-positive cocci experienced over the past few
decades, randomized studies do not demonstrate a clear
benefit to the routine empirical use of vancomycin or teicoplanin in the absence of documented gram-positive
infections. The Infectious Disease Society of America
(IDSA) recommend the use of glycopeptides as part of the
initial empiric therapeutic regimen only in the following
settings: at institutions where fulminant gram-positive bacterial infections are common; in clinical situations associated with increased risk of viridans streptococci infections
(patients receiving prophylaxis with quinolones or with
substantial mucosal damage from chemotherapy); and in
patients with clear clinical signs of catheter-related infections, known colonization with penicillin-resistant pneumococci or meticillin-resistant staphylococci, or patients with
hypotension or cardiovascular impairment (48). Empiric
vancomycin should be discontinued after three to four
days if no gram-positive infection is microbiologically documented. Although a glycopeptide is often empirically
added to patients with persistent fever of unknown origin,
there is little evidence in the literature to support this
practice. Carbapenems or piperacillin/tazobactam are
acceptable alternative agents with adequate coverage
against oral flora in patients at high risk for viridans streptococci infections. More recently, linezolid has shown to
have broad-spectrum activity against gram-positive pathogens including vancomycin resistant enterococci. In patients
with neutropenic fever and a proven or suspected infection
due to a gram-positive organism, linezolid has proven to
be equally effective as vancomycin with somewhat lower
renal toxicity. However, the FDA issued a Safety Alert in
March 2007 because linezolid was associated with an
increased number of deaths in a randomized study conducted in seriously ill patients with catheter-associated
bacteremia compared with vancomycin, oxacillin, or dicloxacillin. In this study, mortality rates did not differ among
treatment arms in patients with gram-positive infections;
however, it was higher in patients treated with linezolid
among those with infections due to gram-negative organisms alone, due to mixed gram-positive and negative bacteria, or with no documented infection at study entry. For
these reasons, empiric linezolid use should be restricted
for patients who are known to be VRE carriers with severe
sepsis, or in clinical situations where a resistant Grampositive pathogen is present or highly suspected.
Patients with persistent fever and neutropenia despite
broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy are at significant risk of
invasive fungal infections that are highly lethal. Randomized studies suggested that the addition of empirical
amphotericin B in neutropenic patients with persistent
fever reduced the incidence of fungal infections and fungalrelated deaths. The lipid formulations of amphotericin B

Chapter 19:

(amphotericin B in lipid complex, amphotericin B colloidal
dispersion, and liposomal amphotericin B) have comparable efficacy and are less nephrotoxic than conventional
amphotericin B. In addition, the azoles fluconazol, itraconazol, and voriconazol have also shown to be equally effective and less toxic than amphotericin B for the empirical
treatment of patients with neutropenia and persistent fever.
However, no definitive data are available regarding their
relative efficacy in the treatment of documented fungal
infections in neutropenic patients. Because of the limited
activity of fluconazole against Aspergillus species and
some non-albicans Candida species, this agent should not
be used in patients with such documented infections or at
high risk for developing them. More recently, caspofungin
has demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of patients with
invasive fungal infections, including cases resistant to
amphotericin B. In randomized trials conducted in patients
with persistent fever and neutropenia, it has shown to be
as effective and better tolerated than liposomal amphotericin B, with lower rates of renal toxicity or infusion-related
events. Moreover, among patients with baseline fungal
infections, caspofungin was associated with a higher proportion of successful outcome including survival for seven
days after the completion of therapy.
Risk-Based Therapy. An increased understanding of
risk factors influencing outcome of febrile neutropenia has
allowed the identification of subgroups of patients within
this heterogenous clinical entity at a low risk of medical
complications and death who may benefit from alternative
simplified treatment strategies.
In the pivotal retrospective study by Talcott et al., a
risk assessment model for episode outcome was developed
using clinical variables that could be assessed within
24 hours of presentation of fever and neutropenia. This
model was later prospectively validated in 444 episodes
from two different U.S. institutions (50). Patients were
stratified in four groups: Group 1 comprised neutropenic
patients already hospitalized at the onset of fever; Group
2 included outpatients with concurrent comorbidities;
Group 3 consisted of outpatients with progressive or

Table 19.4

Risk Models for Stratification of Risk in Febrile Neutropenic Patients
MASCC model (51)
Characteristic

Low risk

343

uncontrolled cancer; and Group 4 were all nonhospitalized
febrile neutropenic patients without any significant comorbidities or progressive disease (Table 19.4). Serious medical
complications and death occurred in 34% and 10% of
patients with risk factors (groups 1–3), while there were
observed in only 5% and 0% of patients in the low-risk
group (group 4), respectively. More recently, the Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC)
has developed an internationally validated numeric riskindex scoring system to identify low-risk febrile neutropenic cancer patients based on a prospective study that
included 1351 patients from 20 institutions in 15 countries
(Table 19.4) (51). A MASCC risk-index score >21 identified
low-risk patients with a positive predictive value of 91%,
a specificity of 68%, and a sensitivity of 71%. Sensitivity is
greater in this model than in Talcott’s model (71% vs. 30%)
at the price of a loss in specificity (68% vs. 90%), although
the overall misclassification rate is lower (30% vs. 59%). Of
note, the rate of identification of patients as being at low
risk is substantially increased compared with the Talcott’s
model (63% vs. 26%).
Alternative treatment strategies with improved costeffectiveness and toxicity profile are being evaluated in this
low-risk population (52). Two adequately sized multicenter
randomized studies, one from Europe and one from the
United States, have demonstrated that hospital-based oral
antimicrobial therapy consisting of a combination of ciprofloxacin and amoxicillin-clavulanate is as safe and effective
as standard intravenous regimens in patients with low-risk
febrile neutropenia (53). Amoxicillin-clavulanate may
be substituted with clindamycin in patients allergic to
β-lactams.
The availability of broad-spectrum oral quinolones
has also enabled clinicians to change from parenteral to
oral regimens allowing earlier patient discharge or outpatient care (52). As fluoroquinolone use in children is controversial due to the potential increased risk of arthropathy,
management with oral cefixime has been assayed in pediatric populations. This antibiotic, however, is no longer
available in the United States and other western countries.
Although some limited experiences including a number of

Talcott’s model (50)

High risk

Medical Emergencies

Group 1: Inpatients
Group 2: Serious comorbidity
Group 3: Uncontrolled cancer

Burden of illness
• No or mild symptoms
• Moderate symptoms
No hypotension
No chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease
Solid tumor or no previous
fungal infection
No dehydration
Outpatient status
Age ≤60 years

Group 4: Outpatients with none of the
above mentioned risk features

Abbreviation: MASCC, multinational association for supportive care in cancer.

Weight
5
3
4
4

A MASCC risk-index score <21
identifies high-risk patients

4
3
3
2
A MASCC risk-index score >21
identifies low-risk patients

344

Section III: Supportive Aspects

uncontrolled studies and some small randomized trials
suggest that these strategies may be feasible and safe in
selected settings, large multicenter randomized trials are
needed to demonstrate its safety and efficacy in the general medical community. These alternative therapeutic
approaches lessen the need for intravenous-access devices,
decrease the incidence of nosocomial infections with
aggressive and resistant pathogens, reduce drug related
toxicity, improve patients quality of life and convenience
for their family or caregivers, lower costs of treatment,
and allow a more efficient utilization of health care
resources. However, the potential risks of developing serious complications that cannot be adequately managed at
home, the risk of noncompliance and inadequate monitoring, and the potential intolerance to oral treatment (emesis,
diarrhea) need to be carefully assessed to ensure the success of risk-based therapy. A key component of outpatient
management includes therefore readily accessible trained
staff and adequate infrastructure 24 hours per day. A proposed risk-based therapeutic algorithm is summarized in
Figure 19.2.
A risk-based approach should also be applied to the
use of colony-stimulating factors (CSFs) in this setting. As
the degree and the duration of neutropenia are key factors
closely related with the risk and outcome of infection, the
role of CSFs has been widely evaluated in this patient
population. Several randomized studies have demonstrated
that the use of CSFs reduces the duration of neutropenia,
but this benefit has not been always associated with advantages in other more meaningful clinical endpoints (hospital
stay, episode complications, cost, or mortality) (54,55). A
recent meta-analysis of randomized trials evaluating the
role of CSFs in conjunction with antibiotic therapy for the
management of patients with established febrile neutropenia concluded, however, that CSFs significantly shortened
neutrophil recovery and hospital stay, with a trend towards
a reduction in infection-related mortality. Last American
Society for Clinical Oncology (ASCO) guidelines recommend that the therapeutic use of CSFs for established neutropenic fever should be considered in patients at high risk
for infection-related complications or who have prognostic
factors predictive of a poor clinical outcome (54). These
high risk features include an expected profound or prolonged neutropenia, age greater than 65 years, uncontrolled
primary disease, pneumonia, sepsis syndrome, invasive
fungal infection, or being hospitalized at the time of fever
onset. Nevertheless, infectious complications in cancer
patients may be better prevented by the prophylactic use
of cerebrospinal fluid in conjunction with chemotherapeutic regimens associated with a high risk of inducing neutropenic fever (greater than 20%). The rationale and
indications for cerebrospinal fluid prophylaxis is however
beyond the scope of this chapter.

Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (Dic)
Etiopathogenesis
Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) is characterized by the generalized activation of the coagulation system leading to widespread intravascular formation of fibrin
and thrombotic occlusion of small and midsize vessels.
This may ultimately cause multiorgan failure as generalized intravascular coagulation can compromise organ blood

supply and induce severe hemodynamic and metabolic
disturbances. In addition, the subsequent consumption of
clotting factors and platelets may result in hemorrhagic
complications.
This hemostatic disorder occurs in up to 15% of
patients with cancer and results from increased generation
of thrombin, suppression of physiologic anticoagulation,
and impaired fibrinolysis mediated by several proinflammatory cytokines. A distinct form of DIC is frequently
encountered in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia, which associates a hyperfibrinolytic state to the mentioned widespread activation of coagulation. Except for this
particular malignant disease, acute DIC in cancer patients
is rare and frequently the result of other predisposing conditions (i.e., septicemia), whereas chronic forms of DIC are
more commonly encountered (56).
The generalized formation of thrombin in DIC is
mediated by the extrinsic pathway involving tissue factor
and activated factor VIIa. Tissue factor is expressed on the
surface of tumor cells and may be expressed on mononuclear cells in response to proinflammatory cytokines,
although the exact source of this factor is not always clear.
Interleukin-6 seems to be the main cytokine involved in
the activation of coagulation, whereas tumor necrosis factor is the principal mediator of the anticoagulation pathway and fibrinolysis derangements. Solid tumor cells can
also express other procoagulant molecules, such as cancer
procoagulant, a cysteine protease with factor X-activating
properties. In addition, different physiologic inhibitors of
coagulation such as antithrombin III, protein C, and tissue
factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI) are markedly reduced in
DIC as a result of cytokine-mediated impaired activity,
decreased synthesis or increased degradation leading to
suppression of anticoagulation. Finally, an increase in the
plasma levels of plasminogen-activator inhibitor type 1
(PAI-1) inhibits the fibrinolytic system, which cannot be
counteracted by the fibrinolytic activity induced by the
widespread formation of fibrin (56).

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
DIC is an acquired disorder that occurs in a wide variety
of clinical conditions, including sepsis, trauma, vascular
disorders (giant hemangioma, aortic aneurysm), obstetrical
complications (amniotic-fluid embolism, abruptio placentae), reactions to toxins, immunologic disorders (transplant
rejection, transfusion reaction, or severe allergic reaction),
and malignant diseases (myeloproliferative diseases, solid
tumors). The clinical presentation of acute DIC consists of
hemorrhagic and/or thrombotic events. The specific clinical features will depend on the site, nature, and severity
of these events. The range of hemorrhagic complications
may extend from minor bleeding from mucosal or cutaneous surfaces to extensive life-threatening hemorrhage
involving visceral sites or central nervous system. Hypercoagulable manifestations may include deep vein thrombosis, Trousseau’s syndrome, pulmonary embolism,
purpura fulminans, nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis,
or acral ischemia.
Laboratory evaluation demonstrates prolongation of
clotting times, such as prothrombin time (PT), partial
thromboplastin time (PTT), thrombin time, and reptilase
time, thrombocytopenia, with platelet counts generally

Chapter 19:

Medical Emergencies

345

Risk assessment

Low risk

High risk

Hospitalization
Patient compliance
health care availability for close monitoring
adequate oral intake

Patient stable
no infectious focus

No

Yes

Outpatient care

Yes

No

Hospitalization

• Ciprofloxacin +
amoxicillin/clavulanate p.o.
• Ceftriaxone/amikacin i.v.
• Ofloxacin p.o.

Monotherapy i.v.
+ CSFs in high risk
• ceftazidime
• cefepime
• imipenem
• meropenem
• piperacillin/tazobactam

Gram-positive
suspected

Gram-negative
suspected

Combination
therapy with
glycopeptide
+CSFs

Combination
therapy with
aminoglycoside
+CSFs

Reassess every 48–72 hr

Clinical response
Microbiological documentation
Yes

No

Continue until
ANC > 500/mm3 or at least 7
days if neutropenia persists

Figure 19.2

Yes

No

Modify antibiotics accordingly
add CSFs if not done yet

Repeat cultures
chest CT/BAL
add antifungals as indicated

Risk-based therapeutic algorithm for febrile neutropenia.

below 100,000/mm3 or rapidly declining, and elevated
levels of fibrin degradation products (FDPs) (56). Hypofibrinogenemia may be observed in severe cases although
plasma fibrinogen levels often remain within the normal
range because this protein is an acute-phase reactant. However, as no single laboratory test available today is sufficiently accurate to allow a definite diagnosis of DIC, a
scoring system has been developed by the subcommittee
on DIC of the International Society of Thrombosis and
Haemostasis (Table 19.5) (57). This scoring system has been
prospectively validated with sensitivity and specificity
values around 95%. Serial coagulation tests may also help
in establishing the diagnosis of DIC. Measurement of low

plasma levels of inhibitors of coagulation such as antithrombin III or protein C may provide useful prognostic
information. More specialized assays include the measurement of soluble fibrin or different tests for measuring the
generation of thrombin (determination of prothrombin activation fragment F1+2 or thrombin-antithrombin complexes)
(56). These tests may be useful in the diagnosis of DIC in
certain clinical situations, although they are generally not
essential and not widely available.
Finally, several now available monitoring devices
assessing the viscoelastic properties of whole blood, i.e.,
thrombelastography, rotation thrombelastometry, and
Sonoclot analysis, may overcome some limitations of routine

346

Section III: Supportive Aspects

Table 19.5

Algorithm for the Diagnosis of Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC)

Score global coagulation test results
1. Platelet count (>100 × 109/l = 0, <100 × 109/l = 1, <50 × 109/l = 2)
2. Elevated fibrin-related marker (e.g., fibrin degradation products or D-dimer) (no increase, 0; moderate increase, 2; strong increase, 3)a
3. Prolonged prothrombin time (<3 secs = 0, >3 but <6 secs = 1, >6 secs = 2)
4. Fibrinogen level (>1.0 g/l = 0, <1.0 g/l = 1)
Calculate score
If >5: compatible with overt DIC
If <5: no overt DIC; repeat next 1–2 days
In most prospective validation studies, D-dimer assays were used and a value above the upper limit of normal (0.4 μg/l) was considered
moderately elevated, whereas a value >10 times the upper limit of normal (4.0 μg/l) was considered as a strong increase.

a

coagulation tests. These devices are particularly useful to
rapidly identify hypo- and hypercoagulable states in the
perioperative setting and can also help guide pro- and
anticoagulant therapies.

Treatment
Effective specific treatment of the underlying disorder is
essential for successful outcome of DIC. However, supportive treatment specifically aimed at the coagulation
abnormalities is also often required. In the setting of
asymptomatic DIC, it is reasonable to observe the patient
closely while identifying and treating precipitating factors
and the underlying condition. Supportive measures will
differ depending upon the clinical presentation of DIC.
Treatment with heparin is probably useful in patients who
present with thrombotic complications, particularly those
with clinically overt thromboembolism, purpura fulminans, or acral ischemia, whereas its use in the presence of
hemorrhage is contraindicated. Unfractionated heparin is
usually administered at doses of 300 to 500 U/hr as a continuous intravenous infusion, although low-molecularweight heparin may also be used. More recently, prophylactic low doses of heparin have been evaluated in patients
with severe sepsis with a trend towards lower mortality
rates for heparin-treated patients as compared with placebo. Concentrates of coagulation inhibitors, such as antithrombin III, have shown in controlled clinical trials to
improve disseminated intravascular coagulation and organ
function, although an improved survival has been less consistently demonstrated (56). Its use, nevertheless, is generally reserved for patients with severe DIC due to its
elevated cost. Randomized studies have also established
the clinical efficacy of activated protein C in normalizing
coagulation activation during severe sepsis, significantly
reducing mortality rates particularly in patients with DIC.
Novel antithrombin III-independent inhibitors of thrombin
are also being tested with promising results, although the
increased risk of bleeding observed with these new drugs
may limit their clinical use. Other recently developed drugs
such as recombinant tissue factor pathway inhibitor,
despite early promising results, have failed to show a survival impact in controlled clinical trials.
On the contrary, replacement therapy with platelets,
fresh-frozen plasma, and/or cryoprecipitate may be necessary in patients presenting with bleeding symptoms or
who require an invasive procedure that may increase their
risk of bleeding (56). Platelet transfusions are indicated in

patients who bleed when platelet counts fall below
50 × 109/L. In nonbleeding patients, a much lower threshold for platelet transfusion is generally used (10–20 × 109/L).
Large volumes of plasma may be required to correct the
coagulation defect. Coagulation factor concentrates, such
as prothrombin complex concentrate, can obviate this problem, although these compounds lack essential factors, such
as factor V. Specific deficiencies in coagulation factors, such
as fibrinogen, can be corrected by the administration of
purified coagulation factor concentrates. The use of antifibrinolytic agents is discouraged with the exception of
patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia or other
patients with DIC associated with primary or secondary
hyperfibrinolysis. In addition, all-trans retinoic acid, a vitamin A derivative that promotes terminal differentiation of
leukemic promyeloblasts, induces bone marrow and cytogenetic complete response in 64% to 96% of patients with
acute promyelocytic leukemia with rapid correction of the
coagulopathy in these patients.

Microangiopathic Hemolytic Anemia
Etiopathogenesis
Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia is characterized by
microvascular thrombotic lesions that result in hemolytic
anemia, thrombocytopenia, and blood vessel occlusion that
gives rise to tissue ischemia and end-organ damage.
Depending on whether renal or brain lesions prevail, two
pathologically indistinguishable but clinically different
entities have been described: the hemolitic uremic syndrome (HUS) and the thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). What triggers the formation of platelet
aggregates in the microvasculature has not been entirely
elucidated. Several causes have been proposed, including
defects of platelets or plasma components and endothelial
cell damage. The HUS usually occurs as a single episode
in children often preceded by gastroenteritis caused by
cytotoxin-producing gram-negative bacteria, most commonly E. coli O157:H7 (58). These bacteria can contaminate
meat, milk, cheese, and other types of insufficiently cooked
or pasteurized food. They produce Shiga exotoxin that
binds with high affinity to ceramide receptors in the membranes of glomerular, colonic, and cerebral epithelial or
endothelial cells, renal mesangial and tubular cells, and
monocytes and platelets. This stimulates epithelial cells
and monocytes to secrete cytokines and chemokines,
induces endothelial cells to secrete unusually large multimers of von Willebrand factor (VWF), activates platelets and

Chapter 19:

may also increase tissue factor on endothelial and epithelialcell surfaces. Once the A subunit of Shiga toxin is internalized to cells, it is converted to a glycosidase whose actions
ultimately result in cell death. Familial forms of HUS,
however, are generally recurrent and are associated with
defective production of the complement control protein
factor H. This results in overactivation of C3, which
may potentiate autoantibody-mediated or immune-complexmediated glomerular injury. On the other hand, recent
evidence suggests that the abnormal processing of VWF
multimers may play a central role in the etiopathogenesis
of TTP (59). Indeed, the absence of normal VWF-cleaving
protease activity gives rise to unusually large VWF multimers
that would trigger platelet aggregation. The VWF-cleaving
protease has now been identified as a new member of
the ADAMTS family of metalloproteases, designated
ADMATS13. The acquired form of TTP is associated with
inhibitory autoantibodies against ADMATS13, and the
congenital chronic relapsing form is caused by mutations
in the ADAMTS13 gene, resulting in a constitutional deficiency (59). These findings not only provide a rationale
for the previously empirical plasma exchange therapy
(removal of the inhibitory antibodies and large VWF multimers, and replacement of the deficient protease with the
plasma infused), but may also help in developing more
rational and targeted treatment strategies.
Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia occurs in up to
6% of patients with metastatic carcinomas (most frequently
from gastric, breast, or lung primaries), and it may develop
in patients with minimal disease (especially gastric cancer)
treated with mitomycin C (5–15% incidence) or, less commonly, other cytotoxic agents, antibodies, or immunotoxins. It has also been reported after total-body irradiation
and after allogeneic bone marrow, kidney, liver, heart, or
lung transplantation. The etiopathogenesis of these
microangiopathies is unknown, although direct glomerular
endothelial damage and immune complex formation have
been postulated as potential mechanisms involved (58).

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia has often an insidious
onset and typically presents with Coombs-negative hemolytic anemia and severe thrombocytopenia. The clinical
features are diverse and reflect the anatomic site involved.
Renal failure is the main predominant feature of HUS,
although it may also occur in TTP. Neurological symptoms
observed in TTP often fluctuate and range from headaches,
personality changes, and sensorimotor deficits, to impaired
consciousness and coma. Gastrointestinal ischemia is also
commonly encountered and may manifest as abdominal
pain and nausea or vomiting. Chest pain, congestive cardiac failure, cardiac arrhythmias, and myocardial infarction
may as well be observed. Rash, fever, hypertension, and
noncardiogenic pulmonary edema can occur in association
with chemotherapy-induced microangiopathic hemolytic
anemia. Symptoms may be precipitated or worsened by
blood transfusions (58,59).
Laboratory findings include thrombocytopenia,
hemolytic anemia with negative direct antiglobulin test,
red cell fragmentation, reticulocytosis (reflecting the
increased red blood cell turnover), elevated lactate dehydrogenase, and possibly biochemical evidence of renal or

Medical Emergencies

347

liver impairment representing ischemic organs (58,59). The
predominant source of lactate dehydrogenase elevation is
ischemic injured tissues rather than red cells undergoing
intravascular hemolysis. Prolongation of clotting times is
not generally a feature of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, but it may occur in severe cases if a secondary DIC
develops as a consequence of extensive intravascular
hemolysis or tissue necrosis.

Treatment
The mainstay of therapy is plasma exchange, which should
be initiated within 24 hours of presentation as treatment
delays significantly increase therapeutic failures and mortality rates (58,59). An exchange volume of 1 to 1.5 times
the calculated plasma volume (45–80 ml/kg) is generally
recommended, although the optimal volume or duration
of therapy remain to be elucidated. The advent of this
therapy has dramatically reduced mortality rates from
70–90% to 20–30%. Paraneoplastic microangiopathic hemolytic anemia may respond to effective antineoplastic therapy and the causal cytotoxic agent should be discontinued
in chemotherapy-induced cases. Blood product administration should be avoided (58,59). Staphylococcal protein A
immunoperfusion to remove the circulating immune complexes may be successful in some instances. Corticosteroids, platelet inhibitors, heparin, or immunosuppressive
agents have not clearly shown to be effective (58,59).
Greater therapeutic success may be expected when microangiopathic hemolytic anemia occurs as a manifestation of
the underlying cancer rather than as a complication of
therapy, and among them, in patients with lower tumor
burdens than in those with widely disseminated disease.

ORTHOPEDIC EMERGENCIES
Bone Metastases
Etiopathogenesis
Skeletal metastases are the major oncological orthopedic
complication, present in 70% of patients who die of cancer.
The most common primary tumors are breast (>50%), lung,
kidney, prostate, and thyroid carcinomas. Skeletal metastases are commonly associated with disabling pain and
pathological fracture. The risk of the latter is correlated
with the type of bone destruction (osteolytic lesions are at
higher risk than osteoblastic ones), the extent of the lesion,
and the anatomical location (40% of all pathological fractures occur in the proximal femur) (60).
Bone metastasis follows complex molecular interactions that enable tumor cells to detach from the primary site,
invade the extracellular matrix, intra-vasate, extra-vasate,
and proliferate within bone. Normal bone remodeling maintains an appropriate balance between the action of osteoclasts (bone-resorbing cells) and osteoblasts (bone-forming
cells). Skeletal malignancies, including bone metastases, disrupt the OPG-RANKL-RANK signal transduction pathway
and promote enhanced osteoclast formation, thereby accelerating bone resorption and inducing bone loss. This osteolysis in turn leads to the release of bone-derived growth
factors, contributing to a “vicious cycle” in which interactions between tumor cells and osteoclasts not only lead to
increased osteoclastogenesis and osteolytic activity, but also
to aggressive growth and behavior of the tumor cells (60).

348

Section III: Supportive Aspects

Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis
The morbidity associated with metastatic bone disease
includes pain that may require opiates, hypercalcemia,
pathologic fracture, spinal cord compression, and the need
for radiotherapy and/or surgery, which are often referred
to as skeletal-related events. Pain is the most frequent
symptom from bone metastases and is typically well localized, worsening at night or with weight-bearing activity.
Functional pain due to mechanical weakness may be a
marker for bone at risk of fracture. Pathologic fractures are
also common events, as they may occur in more than onethird of patients with metastatic breast carcinoma or hormonerefractory prostate cancer. Hypercalcemia and spinal cord
compression have already been discussed elsewhere in this
chapter.
About 50% of bone must be destroyed before a metastatic lesion can be detected radiographically. In the spine,
plain films typically show the absence of a pedicle with
the “winking owl sign.” Technetium bone scanning is the
most sensitive and cost-effective diagnostic test for bone
metastasis, although traumatic or inflammatory changes
may give false-positive results (10% rate), and lesions with
barely any osteoblastic activity, such as those seen in multiple myeloma, may give false-negative tests. A CT scan is
the best imaging modality to characterize the size of a bone
lesion and extent of cortical involvement. It therefore provides relevant information to evaluate bone stability and
the risk of fracture, and to plan surgical therapy. MRI is
the preferred procedure to assess the extent of vertebral
and epidural involvement in patients with metastatic
deposits in the spine and pelvis, particularly when associated with neurological compromise.

Treatment
Bone metastases that do not cause pain or do not confer a
significant risk of impending bone fracture or spinal cord
compression may be managed with the specific systemic
therapy, generally in association with bisphosphonates, for
the underlying disease. Bisphosphonates prevent skeletal
related events in patients with bone metastasis secondary
to multiple myeloma, breast carcinoma, prostate cancer,
and other solid tumors. New pharmacological interventions involve the blockade of RANKL. RANKL is a key
element in the differentiation, function, and survival of
osteoclasts. A fully humanized monoclonal antibody
against RANKL, denosumab (AMG 162), has demonstrated
sustained decrease in bone resorption in patients with
osteoporosis, multiple myeloma, or breast cancer, and is
currently undergoing broad clinical evaluation.
The treatment of choice for localized metastatic bone
pain is radiotherapy. Radiotherapy is effective in relieving
bone pain, preventing impending fractures, and promoting
healing in pathological fractures. Hematological and gastrointestinal side effects are usually mild and transient. The
therapeutic schedules most commonly used include an
8-Gy single fraction administration, 20 Gy given in five
daily treatments (4 Gy/day), and 30 Gy given in 10 daily
fractions (3 Gy/day). These regimens are considered equivalent in terms of pain control and narcotic relief, although
the need for re-treatment and pathologic fracture rates seem
somewhat lower with protracted dose-fractionation schedules (61). However, greater convenience and lower costs

favor the shorter administration schemes. Radiotherapy
provides pain relief in the majority of patients, and more
than 50% eventually achieve complete pain control. Reirradiation of previously irradiated sites may benefit
selected patients, particularly after an initial period of
response. Widefield or half-body external beam radiation
has been used in patients with multiple painful bone metastases with acceptable toxicity. Administration of systemic
radionuclides may be also considered to alleviate pain in
patients with diffuse bone disease, or in previously irradiated patients. Strontium-89 and Samarium-153, given as a
single intravenous administration on an outpatient basis,
are the agents most commonly used in clinical practice (62).
Overall pain reduction is achieved in 60% to 80% of patients.
Reversible myelosuppression, particularly thrombocytopenia, is the most common toxic effect, with nadir counts four
to six weeks after injection. Repeat doses with intervals of
6 to 12 weeks are feasible and effective providing further
pain relief in many patients.
However, severely painful lesions require special
intervention to relieve pain, ease nursing care, allow early
mobilization, and restore function. Surgical intervention
should be considered in patients with a reasonable life
expectancy and failure of conservative therapy (including
radiotherapy), or a pathological or impending fracture.
Lesions with a high risk of fracture include lytic lesions
involving more than 2.5 cm of the cortex in long bones,
or painful intramedullary lesions greater than 50% of the
cross section of the bone. In small lesions, blind intramedullary nailing with local irradiation may provide appropriate fixation and pain relief. In larger lytic lesions,
intramedullary nailing supplemented by methyl methacrylate resin to fill the defect is recommended. In
the presence of extensive bone destruction, segmental
resection and replacement by an endoprosthesis may be
required (63).
Finally, some limited experiences have shown that
radiofrequency ablation or cryoablation of bone metastases
may induce longlasting palliation in patients with refractory bone metastases or in those who are ineligible to
conventional treatments.

REFERENCES
1.

2.

3.

4.
5.

6.

7.

Fojo AT. Metabolic emergencies. In: DeVita VT, Lawrence TS,
Rosenberg SA, eds. Cancer: Principles and Practice of Oncology,
8th edn. Philadelphia: Lippincott-Raven, 2008: 2446–54.
Lumachi F, Brunello A, Roma A et al. Medical treatment of
malignancy-associated hypercalcemia. Curr Med Chem 2008;
15: 415–21.
Hofbauer LC, Neubauer A, Heufelder AE. Receptor activator
of nuclear factor-kappaB ligand and osteoprotegerin: potential implications for the pathogenesis and treatment of malignant bone diseases. Cancer 2001; 92: 460–70.
Lambrinoudaki I, Christodoulakos G, Botsis D. Bisphosphonates. Ann N Y Acad Sci 2006; 1092: 397–402.
Saad F. New research findings on zoledronic acid: survival,
pain and antitumour effects. Cancer Treat Rev 2008; 34:
183–92.
Roodman GD, Dougall WC. RANK ligand as a therapeutic
target for bone metastases and multiple myeloma. Cancer
Treat Rev 2008; 34: 92–101.
Spinazzé S, Schrijvers D. Metabolic emergencies. Crit Rev
Oncol Hematol 2006; 58: 79–89.

Chapter 19:
8. Coiffier B, Altman A, Pui CH et al. Guidelines for the
management of pediatric and adult tumor lysis syndrome: an
evidence-based review. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 2767–78.
9. De Groot JW, Rikhof B, van Doorn J et al. Non-islet tumourinduced hipoglycaemia: a review of the literature including
two new cases. Endocr Relat Cancer 2007; 14: 979–93.
10. Palm C, Pistrosch F, Herbrig K et al. Vasopressin antagonists
as aquaretic agents for the treatment of hyponatremia. Am
J Med 2006; 119(7 Suppl 1): S87–S92.
11. Keefe DL. Cardiovascular emergencies in the cancer patient.
Semin Oncol 2000; 27: 244–55.
12. Yahalom J. Superior vena cava syndrome. In: DeVita VT,
Lawrence TS, Rosenberg SA, eds. Cancer: Principles and Practice
of Oncology, 8th edn. Philadelphia: Lippincott-Raven, 2008:
2427–34.
13. Wilson LD, Detterbeck FC, Yahalom J. Clinical practice. Superior
vena cava syndrome with malignant causes. N Engl J Med
2007; 356: 1862–9.
14. Watkinson AF, Yeow TN, Fraser C. Endovascular stenting to
treat obstruction of the superior vena cava. BMJ 2008; 336:
1434–7.
15. Gray BH, Olin JW, Graor RA et al. Safety and efficacy of
thrombolytic therapy for superior vena cava syndrome. Chest
1991; 99: 54–9.
16. Nguyen DM. Malignant effusions of the pleura and the
pericardium. In: DeVita VT, Lawrence TS, Rosenberg SA, eds.
Cancer: Principles and Practice of Oncology, 8th edn.
Philadelphia: Lippincott-Raven, 2008: 2523–33.
17. Retter AS. Pericardial disease in the oncology patient. Heart
Dis 2002; 4: 387–91.
18. Neragi-Miandoab S. Malignant pleural effusion, current and
evolving approaches for its diagnosis and management. Lung
Cancer 2007; 55: 253–4.
19. Walker-Renard PB, Vaughan LM, Sahn SA. Chemical pleurodesis for malignant pleural effusions. Ann Intern Med 1994;
120: 56–64.
20. Dresler CM, Olak J, Herndon JE 2nd et al. Cooperative
Groups Cancer and Leukemia Group B; Eastern Cooperative
Oncology Group; North Central Cooperative Oncology
Group; Radiation Therapy Oncology Group. Phase III intergroup study of talc poudrage vs talc slurry sclerosis for
malignant pleural effusion. Chest 2005; 127: 909–15.
21. Aurora R, Milite F, Vander Els NJ. Respiratory emergencies.
Semin Oncol 2000; 27: 256–69.
22. Corder R. Hemoptysis. Emerg Med Clin North Am 2003; 21:
421–35.
23. Thompson AB, Teschler H, Rennard SI. Pathogenesis, evaluation and therapy for massive hemoptysis. Clin Chest Med
1992; 13: 69–82.
24. Wood DE. Management of malignant tracheobronchial
obstruction. Surg Clin North Am 2002; 82: 621–42.
25. Chen K, Varon J, Wenker OC. Malignant airway obstruction:
recognition and management. J Emerg Med 1998; 16: 83–92.
26. Unger M. Endobronchial therapy of neoplasms. Chest Surg
Clin N Am 2003; 13: 129–47.
27. Kohek PH, Pakisch B, Glanzer H. Intraluminal irradiation in
the treatment of malignant airway obstruction. Eur J Surg
Oncol 1994; 20: 674–80.
28. Schnoll-Sussman F, Kurtz RC. Gastrointestinal emergencies in
the critically ill cancer patient. Semin Oncol 2000; 27: 270–83.
29. Ripamonti C, Twycross R, Baines M et al. Clinical-practice
recommendations for the management of bowel obstruction
in patients with end-stage cancer. Support Care Cancer 2001;
9: 223–33.
30. Ripamonti CI, Easson AM, Gerdes H. Management of malignant bowel obstruction. Eur J Cancer 2008; 44: 1105–15.
31. Khot UP, Lang AW, Murali K et al. Systematic review of the
efficacy and safety of colorectal stents. Br J Surg 2002; 89:
1096–102.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.
37.
38.

39.
40.
41.

42.

43.
44.

45.

46.

47.
48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

Medical Emergencies

349

Runkel NS, Schlag P, Schwartz V et al. Outcome after
emergency surgery for cancer of the large intestine. Br J Surg
1991; 78: 183–8.
Savides TJ, Jensen DM, Cohen J et al. Severe upper gastrointestinal tumor bleeding: endoscopic findings, treatment and
outcome. Endoscopy 1996; 28: 244–8.
Kovacs TO, Jensen DM. Recent advances in the endoscopic
diagnosis and therapy of upper gastrointestinal, small intestinal, and colonic bleeding. Med Clin North Am 2002; 86:
1319–56.
Strope SA, Hafez KS. Urologic emergencies. In: DeVita VT,
Lawrence TS, Rosenberg SA, eds. Cancer: Principles and Practice of Oncology, 8th edn. Philadelphia: Lippincott-Raven,
2008: 2455–60.
Russo P. Urologic emergencies in the cancer patient. Semin
Oncol 2000; 27: 284–98.
West NJ. Prevention and treatment of hemorrhagic cystitis.
Pharmacotherapy 1997; 17: 696–706.
Kouba E, Wallen EM, Pruthi RS. Management of ureteral
obstruction due to advanced malignancy: optimizing therapeutic and palliative outcomes. J Urol 2008; 180: 444–50.
Yachia D. Recent advances in ureteral stents. Curr Opin Urol
2008; 18: 241–6.
Patchell RA. The management of brain metastases. Cancer
Treat Rev 2003; 29: 533–40.
Patchell RA, Tibbs PA, Walsh JW et al. A randomized trial
of surgery in the treatment of single metastases to the brain.
N Engl J Med 1990; 322: 494–500.
Sperdutto PW, Scott C, Andrews D et al. A phase III trial
comparing whole brain irradiation alone versus whole brain
irradiation plus stereotactic surgery for patients with one to
three brain metastases. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2002;
51: 3.
Berk L. An overview of radiotherapy trials for the treatment
of brain metastases. Oncology 1995; 9: 1205–12.
Baehring JM. Spinal cord compression. In: DeVita VT,
Lawrence TS, Rosenberg SA, eds. Cancer: Principles and Practice
of Oncology, 8th edn. Philadelphia: Lippincott-Raven, 2008:
2441–6.
Loblaw DA, Perry J, Chambers A et al. Systematic review of
the diagnosis and management of malignant extradural spinal
cord compression: the Cancer Care Ontario Practise Guidelines Initiatives Neuro-Oncology Disease Site Group. J Clin
Oncol 2005; 23: 2028–37.
Patchell R, Tibbs PA, Regine WF et al. Direct decompressive
surgical resection in the treatment of spinal cord compression
caused by metastatic cancer: a randomised trial. Lancet 2005;
366: 643.
Bodey GP, Rolston KVI. Management of fever in neutropenic
patients. J Infect Chemother 2001; 7: 1–9.
Garcia-Carbonero R, Paz-Ares L. Antibiotics and growth factors
in the management of fever and neutropenia in cancer
patients. Curr Opin Hematol 2002; 9: 215–21.
Paul M, Yahav D, Fraser A et al. Empirical antibiotic monotherapy for febrile neutropenia: systematic review and metaanalysis of randomized controlled trials. J Antimicrob
Chemother 2006; 57: 176–89.
Talcott JA, Siegel RD, Finberg R et al. Risk assessment in
cancer patients with fever and neutropenia: a prospective,
two-center validation of a prediction rule. J Clin Oncol 1992;
10: 316–22.
Klastersky J, Paesmans M, Rubenstein EB et al. The Multinational Association for Supportive Care in Cancer risk
index: a multinational scoring system for identifying lowrisk febrile neutropenic cancer patients. J Clin Oncol 2000;
18: 3038–51.
Kern WV. Risk assessment and treatment of low-risk
patients with febrile neutropenia. Clin Infect Dis 2006; 42:
533–40.

350
53.

54.

55.

56.
57.

Section III: Supportive Aspects
Kern WV, Cometta A, De Bock R et al. Oral versus intravenous
empirical antimicrobial therapy for fever in patients with
granulocytopenia who are receiving cancer chemotherapy.
International Antimicrobial Therapy Cooperative Group of
the European Organization for Research and Treatment of
Cancer. N Engl J Med 1999; 341: 312–18.
Smith TJ, Khatcheressian J, Lyman GH et al. 2006 update of
recommendations for the use of white blood cell growth factors: an evidence-based clinical practice guideline. J Clin
Oncol 2006; 24: 3187–205.
Garcia-Carbonero R, Mayordomo JI, Tornamira MV et al.
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in the treatment of
high-risk febrile neutropenia: a multicenter randomized trial.
J Natl Cancer Inst 2001; 93: 31–8.
Levi M, Ten Cate H. Disseminated intravascular coagulation.
N Engl J Med 1999; 341: 586–92.
Toh CH, Hoots WK. SSC on disseminated intravascular coagulation of the ISTH. The scoring system of the Scientific and
Standardisation Committee on Disseminated Intravascular

58.
59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

Coagulation of the International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis: a 5-year overview. J Thromb Haemost 2007; 5: 604–6.
Moake JL. Thrombotic microangiopathies. New Engl J Med
2002; 347: 589–600.
Allford SL, Hunt BJ, Rose P et al. Guidelines on the diagnosis
and management of the thrombotic microangiopathic haemolytic anaemias. Br J Haematol 2003; 120: 556–73.
Coleman RE. Metastatic bone disease: clinical features,
pathophysiology and treatment strategies. Cancer Treat Rev
2001; 27: 165–76.
Sze WM, Shelley M, Held I et al. Palliation of metastatic bone
pain: single fraction versus multifraction radiotherapy—a
systematic review of the randomised trials. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2004; CD004721.
Finlay IG, Mason MD, Shelley M. Radioisotopes for the palliation of metastatatic bone cancer: a systematic review. Lancet
Oncol 2005; 6: 392–400.
Harrington KD. Orthopedic surgical management of skeletal
complications of malignancy. Cancer 1997; 80: 1614–27.

20
1
Symptom Control and Palliative Care
Shirley H. Bush and Eduardo Bruera

experience an increase in intensity of preexisting symptoms,
or when there has been a change in therapy.

INTRODUCTION
The main objective of palliative care is to improve the
quality of life for both patients with life-threatening illness
and their families (1). Patients with advanced cancer may
experience physical, psychosocial, and spiritual difficulties
throughout their illness, which will have an impact on their
overall quality of life. Palliative care is also applicable in
conjunction with other therapies, such as chemotherapy or
radiation therapy, early in the course of an illness and
continues beyond the death of a patient, with bereavement
support provided to families.
When this same approach to symptom control and
psychosocial support is integrated into the care of patients
receiving potentially curative or life-prolonging treatment,
the term supportive care is sometimes used.
The first step in the symptom control of advanced
cancer patients is continuous, multidimensional assessment. This is the cornerstone of effective palliative care and
is accomplished through an interdisciplinary approach.
Physicians must work together with many other health
care professionals, such as psychologists, pastoral care
workers, social workers, nurses, occupational therapists,
physiotherapists, and dieticians, to provide holistic care
and support not only to the patient but also to family
members.
This chapter begins with a general overview of
patient assessment and examples of tools used. Sections
detailing some of the major symptoms observed in palliative care patients follow, including descriptions of their
assessment and management. Finally, the chapter concludes with recommendations for improving symptom
control.

Multidimensional Assessment
There are three steps involved in the experience of symptoms by a patient: production, perception, and expression.
Production is caused predominantly by the cancer itself
and cannot be measured directly. Examples of this are the
nociceptive input from bone metastases or the stimulation
of J receptors in the lung in patients with dyspnea. Perception takes place at the level of the central nervous system,
and, like symptom production, it cannot be measured
directly. Perception is influenced by the action of endorphins and inhibitory pathways.
Symptom expression is the target for all our assessment and therapy. However, symptom expression between
patients with similar disease pathology and the same initial
level of production can be very different. Symptom expression is also influenced by other factors such as mood disorders, delirium, cultural background, personal beliefs,
social support, chemical coping, and somatization.
It is important to identify the extent to which different factors are influencing the expression of a symptom of
an individual patient at a particular point in time. This will
enable the delivery of effective targeted therapy by the
interdisciplinary team. For example, two patients may both
give a subjective rating of 8 out of 10 for fatigue. The major
contributors to the fatigue of patient 1 are cachexia, anemia, and deconditioning. Correction of these factors will
have minimal impact on the fatigue experienced by patient
2, whose major contributor is depression. Patients often
present with multiple coexisting and interrelated symptoms requiring simultaneous assessment and management.
For a thorough multidimensional evaluation of the patient,
several different assessment tools may be needed. Some
examples are listed below.

ASSESSMENT
Simple validated symptom assessment tools are the most
appropriate for advanced cancer patients. Patients are often
fatigued and experiencing significant symptoms that make
it too difficult to complete a time-consuming and complex
assessment tool. The tool should be an instrument that
assesses for the presence of multiple symptoms. In addition
to the identification and evaluation of the intensity of symptoms, assessment tools may also monitor the effectiveness
of therapy and screen for adverse effects of medication.
Systematic assessment using a tool will detect a significantly higher number of symptoms as compared with openended questions (2). Assessment tools should be utilized
regularly, especially when patients develop new symptoms,

Edmonton Symptom Assessment System
The Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS) is
used to quantitatively evaluate the patient’s subjective perception of a number of symptoms. The ESAS has been
validated and routinely records multiple symptoms: pain,
fatigue, nausea, depression, anxiety, drowsiness, appetite,
shortness of breath, and feeling of well-being (3). The patient
rates each of these symptoms on a scale of 0 to 10, where
0 means that the symptom is absent and 10 rates it as the
worst possible severity. Ideally, patients fill out their own
ESAS, but if needed, it can be completed with the assistance
351

352

Section III: Supportive Aspects

of their caregiver (family or health care professional). As
patients with advanced cancer usually have multiple symptoms, the determination of the intensity of each symptom
using the ESAS allows the team to initially focus on the
management of highly rated symptoms and to monitor the
responsiveness to interventions.

The Memorial Delirium Assessment Scale
The Memorial Delirium Assessment Scale (MDAS) is a
validated 10-item, four-point clinician-rated scale (possible
range, 0–30) designed to quantify delirium severity in
patients with cancer and other medically ill patients (4).
Scale items assess disturbances in arousal and level of consciousness, as well as several areas of cognitive functioning
(e.g., memory, attention, orientation, disturbances in thinking) and psychomotor activity. The resulting scale integrates
behavioral observations and objective cognitive testing and
takes approximately 10 minutes to administer.

CAGE
Alcoholism occurs in 5% to 15% of the general population
and approximately 20% of hospitalized patients but remains
undiagnosed in more than two-thirds of patients (5). The
CAGE questionnaire is a brief tool designed to screen for
alcoholism (6). CAGE is a mnemonic for
• Have you ever felt that you should Cut down on your
drinking?
• Have you ever been Annoyed by people criticizing your
drinking?
• Have you ever felt bad or Guilty about your drinking?
• Have you ever had a drink first thing in the morning
or a drink to get rid of a hangover (Eye opener)?
The validity of this test decreases if it is done after
having asked the patient about the quantity of alcohol or
drug ingested, so it is strongly recommended to perform
the CAGE questionnaire first. Occasionally, if patients are
not currently using alcohol, they respond in the negative,
interpreting the questions as only referring to the present
or recent past. This is minimized by stressing that the
questions refer to the patients’ lifetime.
CAGE positivity, with two or more questions
answered in the affirmative, indicates the possibility of
chemical coping. In the palliative care setting, the identification of chemical coping is important because opioid analgesics share a similar reward brain pathway with alcohol
(with partial mediation of both by endorphins). Patients
with a history of chemical coping have a higher risk of
using opioid analgesics as a means of coping with stress.

Functional Assessment
Functional assessment is an independent predictor of survival prognosis (7). It is also essential information for
planning the venue of care, which can be in the home,
inpatient palliative care unit or inpatient hospice, or acute
hospital setting. Two complementary tools, the Edmonton
Functional Assessment Tool (EFAT) (8) and the Functional Independence Measure (FIM) (9), can be used to
evaluate the functional status of patients with advanced
cancer. The EFAT is more focused on the identification

and quantifying the intensity of the factors contributing
to functional impairment, whereas the FIM evaluates the
different functions of the patients’ daily activity in more
detail.

Psychosocial Assessment
Psychosocial distress, especially caused by mood disorders
such as depression and anxiety, frequently goes undiagnosed, causes significant distress to patients and their
families, and affects the symptom control in patients. The
factors responsible for psychosocial distress need to be
identified to provide appropriate therapy. This includes
asking questions about family and social support, financial
difficulties and “unfinished business,” cultural issues
influencing the illness experience and care needs, loss of
autonomy and control, emotional or existential/spiritual
distress, and fears regarding death and the dying process.
The most effective way to assess and alleviate psychosocial distress is through using an interdisciplinary approach.
The role of social workers, case managers, pastoral care
workers, and psychologists, among others, is of vital
importance.

PAIN
Pain occurs in 70% to 90% of cancer patients with advanced
disease (10). Although in approximately 90% of patients,
pain can be adequately controlled using common pain
management measures, at least 20% of cancer patients have
significant pain at the end of life (11). Reasons for this
include inadequate assessment and inadequate knowledge
about pain pathophysiology and its appropriate treatment.
In addition, ongoing misconceptions held by physicians
and patients regarding opioids lead to underprescription
of these drugs. Pain control is often inadequate, as only
“as needed” doses or too low doses of the regular baseline
opioid are prescribed, and at times, the frequency of dosing is insufficient. Common concerns are fear of addiction
(psychological dependence), causing excessive drowsiness
or respiratory depression, and hastening death. It should
be emphasized that when prescribed in appropriate doses
to control cancer pain, opioids do not hasten death. Pain
appears to be antagonistic of opioid-induced sedation and
respiratory depression.

Pain Assessment
For the appropriate management of cancer pain, a detailed
pain assessment is essential, identifying the cause,
pathophysiology, and intensity for each pain reported by
the patient. For patients experiencing persistent pain
despite appropriate therapy, multidimensional assessment
and psychosocial evaluation is mandatory (see section
“Multidimensional Assessment”).

Causes of Pain
The most common cause of pain in advanced cancer
patients is the primary cancer itself or metastases. Pain
may be due to the anticancer therapy such as postsurgical injury to peripheral nerves and postradiotherapy(e.g., radiation fibrosis, myelopathy, osteoradionecrosis,

Chapter 20:

mucositis) and chemotherapy-related pain syndromes
(e.g., polyneuropathy, mucositis). A minority of patients
have pain due to debility or concurrent disorder
(e.g., postherpetic neuralgia, constipation, osteoarthritis,
musculoskeletal pain).

Types of Pain
Cancer pain is categorized according to different anatomical and pathophysiological pain mechanisms (12). The
mechanistic categories are nociceptive, comprising superficial somatic, deep somatic, and visceral pain, and neuropathic pain. Pain can be described as mixed when there is
more than one pathophysiology.
The nociceptive pain mechanism occurs through
stimulation of superficial or deep tissue receptors (nociceptors) with the afferent impulse propagated along the
ascending spinothalamic nociceptive pathways. Superficial
somatic pain arises from skin and mucosa (e.g., malignant
ulcers, stomatitis), and deep somatic pain from bones,
joints, muscles, organ capsules, pleura, and peritoneum
(e.g., bone metastases, liver capsule distension or inflammation). Somatic pain is usually well localized with local
tenderness. Visceral pain involves solid or hollow organs
and deep abdominal or mediastinal tumor masses, but it
is poorly localized and may be referred.
Neuropathic pain arises from a disturbance of neural
pathways (e.g., compression, invasion, destruction, or dysfunction) in the peripheral or central nervous system. Neuropathic pain has many different characteristics and is
often difficult for patients to describe. Dysesthetic pain
(e.g., deafferentation) is constant but can also fluctuate and
has a burning sensation. It is usually localized but sometimes radiates (e.g., post herpetic neuralgia). Lancinating
pain is paroxysmal with a sharp, shooting quality (e.g.,
trigeminal neuralgia). (See sections “Adjuvant Therapy”
and “Nonpharmacological Therapy”).
“Episodic pain” is a term to describe the transitory
exacerbation of pain that changes with time, which can
be classified into three subtypes: activity and movementrelated (also referred to as incidental or incident pain),
spontaneous, and “end-of-dose failure” (13). The term
“breakthrough pain” has also been used to describe this
phenomenon of a transitory increase in pain (14). The
prevalence of episodic pain is in the range of 40% to 70%.
The mean time to peak is three minutes with a mean
duration of 15 to 30 minutes, but can be as long as two
or even four hours. The parenteral and transmucosal
routes, for drugs with appropriate pharmacodynamic
properties, have a faster onset of action for “rescue” analgesia than the oral route for management of episodic
pain (13).
Both neuropathic and episodic pain present challenges to usual pain management.

Identification of Poor Cancer Pain Prognostic Factors
The presence of poor prognostic factors should be an indication to physicians that they may encounter difficulties in
controlling the patient’s pain. Assessment tools have been
developed to evaluate cancer pain prognosis such as the
Cancer Pain Prognostic Scale (CPPS) and the revised
Edmonton Staging System (rESS) (15,16).

Symptom Control and Palliative Care

353

Poor prognostic factors for cancer pain are as follows:
• History of alcoholism and drug abuse
• History of somatization as primary coping strategy or
as a result of affective disorders such as anxiety or
depression
• Tolerance, defined as a significant increase in opioid
dose over time (e.g., an increase in 5% or greater of the
daily baseline dose on consecutive days)
• Neuropathic pain
• Incidental pain/episodic pain
A lack of awareness of these factors can result in an
unnecessary and inappropriate rapid dose escalation of
medications, especially opioids, and drug toxicities.

Pharmacotherapy
Mild Pain
For patients with mild pain, physicians can start therapy
with a nonopioid drug such as paracetamol (acetaminophen
in the United States) or a weak opioid such as codeine.
Paracetamol acts centrally, acting as a cyclo-oxygenase
(COX) inhibitor in the brain (17). It does not affect platelet
function and has no gastrointestinal toxicity. This makes it
an ideal option for advanced cancer patients, and it can be
used with an additive effect for patients taking opioids for
moderate to severe pain (18). Typical doses are 500 to 1000 mg
orally every four to six hours. The maximum recommended
daily dose is 4 g. It should be used with caution in patients
with severe hepatic impairment.
The dose of codeine is 30 to 60 mg orally every four
hours and as needed for episodic pain. Codeine is usually
ineffective in patients (5–10% of Caucasians and 1–2% of
Asians) lacking the enzyme CYP2D6 needed for the metabolism of codeine.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may
be used alone or in addition to opioid therapy. They act by
the inhibition of the COX enzyme peripherally, and evidence suggests that they may have a central effect (19).
NSAIDs also exhibit a ceiling effect. The coxibs are preferentially selective for COX-2 and have a low gastroduodenal
toxicity. All coxibs probably have a prothrombotic tendency,
so they should be prescribed with caution, especially for
patients at risk of heart disease or with peripheral vascular
disease. (In 2004, rofecoxib was withdrawn worldwide due
to concerns over an increase in serious thrombotic events).
Caution should also be shown when prescribing any NSAID
for a long period.
Combination preparations of paracetamol/opioid
and NSAID/opioid are available in some countries. However, their rigid dose formulation not only limits opioid
dose escalation but also increases the risk of toxicity of the
associated drug at higher doses. Ongoing pain despite
maximal titration is an indication for the use of a stronger
opioid in a different formulation.

Moderate and Severe Pain
Patients experiencing moderate or severe pain will require
treatment with a strong opioid. This decision should be
based on pain severity and not on prognosis. Morphine,
a potent mu-agonist, is generally the strong opioid of

354

Section III: Supportive Aspects

choice for cancer pain management. Morphine is not
recommended in renal failure due to the accumulation
of potentially toxic metabolites (20). Other commonly
used strong opioids include hydromorphone, oxycodone,
fentanyl, and methadone (Table 20.1).
Concerns about opioid addiction are usually unfounded
as advanced cancer patients who have appropriate treatment with opioids and have no history of chemical coping
are at minimal risk of becoming addicted. Patients on chronic
opioid therapy may show signs of opioid withdrawal if the
dose is abruptly reduced or discontinued (physical dependence). To avoid opioid withdrawal symptoms (agitation,
tremulousness, fever, diaphoresis, mydriasis, tachycardia,
and muscle and abdominal cramping) the opioid dose
should be tapered at a rate of 20% per day.

Initiation of Opioid Therapy
Therapy should be initiated with an immediate-release (IR)
opioid. The preferred route is oral, but the parenteral route
may be necessary for rapid titration in cases of severe acute
pain or in situations where the oral route is not possible
(e.g., dysphagia, bowel obstruction, depressed conscious
state) (Fig. 20.1). The recommended oral starting dose
should be rapidly titrated over two to four days until the
pain is controlled before changing to a maintenance opioid
regimen (Fig. 20.2). Patients with severe pain may need
higher starting doses. Physicians should always prescribe
an IR opioid (usually 10% of the daily dose) as a “rescue”
dose for episodic pain that is not controlled by the regular
scheduled baseline analgesic. In some countries, a “rescue”
dose of 16% (one-sixth) of the 24-hour dose has been recommended, which is equivalent to the four-hourly dose of
morphine. More recent studies suggest that an individual’s
“rescue” dose should be found by titration (13).
The increase of the daily opioid dose depends on the
number of “rescue” doses needed to “top-up” baseline
analgesia. If a patient needs more than three extra doses
of IR opioid, the dose for the following day should be the
sum of the regular scheduled doses plus the “rescue”
doses. It is not necessary to increase the regular daily
opioid dose if patients are requiring less than three extra
“rescue” doses.
Opioid therapy should not routinely be initiated with
slow-release (SR) preparations or long half-life opioids.
These opioids are difficult to titrate and take time to reach
their full effect when patients will usually need more rapid
pain relief. The most common adverse effects on commencing morphine are nausea and vomiting, drowsiness, constipation, and confusion. The first two usually resolve after

Table 20.1

Strong Opioids Used in Palliative Care

Morphine
Diamorphine (United Kingdom only)
Oxycodone
Hydromorphone
Methadone
Fentanyl (including oral transmucosal fentanyl citrate)
Sufentanil
Alfentanil
Buprenorphine [Transdermal (TD)—not United States]

Example
1.–Assess the patient.
2.–Schedule an immediate-release (IR) opioid on a regular basis
–and extra doses for breakthrough pain.
—–The recommended starting doses are as follows:
—–•–Morphine 10mg orally (5mg i.v./s.c.) every 4hours and 5mg
— ––orally (2.5mg i.v./s.c.) as needed for breakthrough pain.
—–•–Hydromorphone 2mg orally (1mg i.v./s.c.) every 4hours and
— —–1mg orally (0.5mg i.v./s.c.) as needed for breakthrough pain.
—–•–Oxycodone 5mg orally every 4hours and 2.5–5mg orally as
— —–needed for breakthrough pain (i.v./s.c. formulations are not
— —–available in all countries).
Note: Use lower initial dose of opioid if patient is frail and elderly or
—— opioid naive.
—— e.g., Morphine 5mg orally every 4hours.
3.–Prescribe an antiemetic and laxative to prevent and to treat
–nausea and constipation.
—–•–Metoclopramide: 10mg every 4–6hours and 10mg every
— –—2hours for breakthrough nausea
— —–or
—–•–Haloperidol: 1.5mg orally at night.
—–•–Laxative: Sennoside 8.6mg, 1–2 tablets b.d. (b.i.d.).
4.–Frequently assess for efficacy and side effects.

Figure 20.1 Initiation of opioid therapy.

Example
1.–In order to determine the new daily dose, it is necessary to
–calculate the total 24-hour opioid dose of the previous day
–(regular scheduled dose plus as needed “rescue” doses for
–breakthrough pain).
–e.g., if the patient was receiving 10 mg of morphine every
–4 hours and needed 5 doses of 6 mg for breakthrough pain
–(approx. 10% of the daily dose), then the total dose is 90 mg
–[calculated by: 60 mg of the scheduled dose (10 mg × 6) plus
–30 mg of morphine for the breakthrough pain (6 mg × 5)].
2.–The new daily dose is divided by 6 to make 4-hourly
–doses. The new as needed “rescue” dose is 10% of the
–new daily dose.
–e.g., The new daily dose of morphine is 90 mg, administered
–as 15 mg every 4 hours. The new “rescue” dose is 9 mg (10%
–of the daily dose).
3.–Continue with laxatives.
4.–Continue with antiemetics if necessary. (It may be
–possible to cease them after the first week).
5.–Continue frequent assessment.
Note: It is not necessary to increase the daily dose of opioid if
––– the patient needs less than three “rescue” doses for
––– breakthrough pain per day.

Figure 20.2 Titration of opioid dose.

three to five days, but constipation is usually ongoing.
Therefore, it is common practice to prescribe as needed or
regular antiemetics, such as metoclopramide or haloperidol
(particularly for the first three to five days) and laxatives
(for the duration of use of all opioids), to prevent and treat
nausea and vomiting and constipation, respectively.

Chapter 20:

Some opioids have no role in the palliative care setting. Meperidine (pethidine) is not suitable for chronic pain
relief, as it has a relatively short duration of action (two
to three hours). It also has a neurotoxic metabolite, normeperidine (norpethidine), which can accumulate with repetitive dosing and cause myoclonus and even seizures,
particularly in patients with renal failure. Mixed agonistantagonist analgesics, such as pentazocine, nalbuphine,
and butorphanol, also should not be used. They have a
dose-related ceiling effect, whereby increasing the dose
beyond that point will only increase their side effects and
not increase analgesia. In addition, pentazocine often
causes psychotomimetic effects.

Maintenance Therapy
Once pain is controlled, immediate-release IR opioids can
be changed to a slow-release SR preparation (Fig. 20.3).
This has the advantage of less frequent administration
and fewer tablets. It is highly recommended to continue
with the same opioid on conversion (e.g., IR morphine to
morphine-SR).
The transdermal fentanyl patch requires special consideration, and it should only be initiated if pain is stable
as it typically takes 12 hours to reach systemic analgesic
concentrations, with steady state usually reached by the
second patch application. Therefore, it is crucial to continue
the previous regular opioid for 12 to 18 hours after commencing treatment with a fentanyl patch. Likewise, fentanyl concentrations decrease slowly after patch removal, so
once treatment with a fentanyl patch has been discontinued, it is necessary to wait about 8 to 12 hours before
commencing a new opioid.

Example
—Once the 24-hour dose of opioid has been established, the
—patient can be changed over to a slow-release opioid
—preparation. The main reason for doing this is the convenience
—of less frequent drug administration.
—The slow-release (SR) opioids are:
—•–Morphine-SR, Oxycodone-SR, Hydromorphone-SR every
——12 hours.
—•–Morphine-SR every 24 hours (for once daily preparations).
—•–Transdermal Fentanyl every 72 hours.
1.–If the opioid is not changed (morphine IR to morphine SR), the
–24-hourly dose remains unchanged.
–e.g., The equivalent of 90 mg of immediate release (IR)
–morphine per day is 90 mg of slow release (SR) morphine
–every 24 hours or 45 mg administered every 12 hours,
–depending on the SR preparation used.
2.–For “rescue” analgesia for breakthrough pain, physicians
–should use only IR opioids at 10% of the daily opioid-SR dose.
–e.g., For a patient on morphine-SR 45 mg every 12 hours, give
–morphine-IR 9 mg as needed.
3.–Continue with laxatives.
4.–Continue with antiemetics if necessary.
5.–Continue frequent assessment.

Figure 20.3

Changing to slow-release (SR) opioids.

Symptom Control and Palliative Care

355

At times, disease progression or the development of
tolerance necessitates upward titration of the maintenance
opioid dose. If pain improves because of response to other
treatment modalities, e.g., after radiotherapy, or if the
patient develops opioid toxicity with satisfactory pain control, then downward titration is indicated. A patient experiencing refractory adverse effects with a particular opioid
may require a change in the maintenance opioid (see section
“Opioid Rotation/Substitution”).

Opioid Toxicity
The most common adverse effects of treatment with opioids are sedation, nausea, constipation, and dry mouth.
Severe sedation that persists for several days after initiation
of opioid therapy can be treated with psychostimulants,
such as methylphenidate (21). The usual methylphenidate
dose is 5 to 10 mg in the morning with 5 mg at noon, but
some patients find it beneficial to also take afternoon or
evening doses (22). Other less-common opioid side effects
include pruritus and urinary retention.
Opioids may also induce neurotoxicity. Adverse
effects on CNS include hallucinations, delirium, hyperalgesia (an increased response to a stimulus which is normally
painful), generalized myoclonus (transient involuntary contractions of muscle/s), and tonic-clonic seizures (23). Neurotoxicity is usually seen in patients receiving high doses
of opioids, prolonged opioid administration, previous borderline cognition, and in patients with renal failure. The
treatment of opioid neurotoxicity includes hydration (in an
attempt to increase renal elimination of the parent drug and
metabolites), opioid rotation or switching (see section “Opioid Rotation/Substitution”), and in some cases, opioid
reduction. Patients should also be assessed for other causes
of neurotoxicity and reversible causes treated if appropriate.
For patients with renal failure, there is a high possibility of
metabolite accumulation, especially with morphine and
diamorphine, and alternative opioids such as fentanyl and
methadone are recommended (20).

Opioid Rotation/Substitution
A switch in opioid is indicated if pain control has not been
achieved despite high opioid doses, if the patient has
developed tolerance to the opioid, or if refractory adverse
effects or toxicity to the currently administered opioid
develop (24). Examples of refractory adverse effects with
morphine are persistent nausea and vomiting, confusion,
drowsiness, myoclonus, and refractory constipation. The
development of significant renal impairment in a patient
on morphine usually necessitates a change in the opioid.
Opioid rotation aims to improve pain relief by reversing opioid tolerance (25). Opioid rotation (or substitution)
is a strategy also used for toxicity reduction (24). In carrying out opioid rotation, it is important to consider the
interindividual variations in oral bioavailability, pharmacokinetics of opioids, and incomplete cross-tolerance
between opioids. Opioid conversion tables are widely
available to assist with the switch from one opioid to
another (26–29). They have been developed using mainly
data from single- and repeated-dose studies in patients
with acute pain and some chronic studies. Therefore, the
equianalgesic dose of the new opioid should be reduced

356

Section III: Supportive Aspects

by approximately 30% as a precaution, and the patient
should be closely monitored.
Methadone, an opioid with unique characteristics, is
increasingly being used as a second-line opioid for cancer
pain (30). Methadone is a synthetic mu-delta opioid agonist
and a relatively potent antagonist at N-methyl-d-aspartate
(NMDA) receptors in the spinal dorsal horn, which have
an important role in opioid tolerance, central sensitization,
and neuropathic pain. It is a lipophilic drug with excellent
oral bioavailability of approximately 80%. It is metabolized
in the liver, where it may interact with inducers and inhibitors of the cytochrome P450 system, to inactive metabolites. Caution is therefore needed for co-administration of
methadone with other drugs that affect the cytochrome
P450 system, especially the CYP 3A4, and possibly the 2D6
and other isoenzymes. Methadone can be used in patients
with renal failure without the need for dose adjustment.
There is considerable interindividual variation in the pharmacokinetics of methadone leading to wide ranging differences in plasma half-life, from 8 hours up to 150 hours.
With chronic dosing, methadone has a duration of action
of 6 to 12 hours.
The onset of action of oral methadone is rapid
(under 30 minutes) (31). However, it is not recommended
to increase the dose more frequently than every three to
four days due to the delay in reaching full effect. Conversion to methadone from other opioids is complex and the
ratio varies according to the total 24-hour opioid dose
used previously (32). The conversion ratio of oral morphine to oral methadone varies from 3:1 to 20:1 depending
on the prior morphine dose. The higher the previous dose
of morphine, the higher the methadone potency (Table 20.2).
Specialist palliative care input is strongly advised.
Methadone is available in a variety of formulations:
tablet, liquid, suppository, and injection enabling oral, rectal, intravenous, and subcutaneous administration. Oral
methadone is very cost effective as it is 10 to 20 times
cheaper than other opioids. The potential for subcutaneous
site reactions from infusions of methadone may be attenuated by the use of dexamethasone or hyaluronidase (see
section “Subcutaneous Route”). Another strategy is to
administer subcutaneous methadone intermittently (33).

Adjuvant Therapy
Some patients will continue to have opioid refractory
cancer-associated pain despite optimal opioid titration for
baseline pain. This often occurs in cases of neuropathic or
movement-related pain. The addition of adjuvant drugs

Table 20.2

Conversion Table: Morphine to Methadone

Oral morphine dose (mg)

<100
101–300
301–600
601–800
801–1000
>1001

Conversion ratio of oral morphine to oral
methadone (mg morphine: mg
methadone)
3:1
5:1
10:1
12:1
15:1
20:1

should be considered when good analgesia has not been
achieved and when opioids have been titrated to the level
of dose-limiting toxicity. New analgesic interventions
should preferably be added one at a time and at an initial
low dose for those medications that have sedative adverse
effects. An adequate trial should be given and the medication ceased if not effective after optimal titration. Table 20.3
lists commonly used adjuvant drugs.
Patients with either multiple bone metastases and
severe movement-related episodic pain, mucositis, or neuropathic pain have responded to ketamine, an NMDA
receptor antagonist, given as a “burst” subcutaneous infusion for three to five days (34).

Nonpharmacological Therapy
Anesthetic or neurosurgical interventional techniques may
be considered in patients who have refractory pain despite
comprehensive multidisciplinary management or have
intolerable toxicity associated with usual pharmacological
treatments. Techniques used include celiac plexus/splanchnic block for abdominal visceral pain, e.g., pancreatic cancer pain, spinal (intrathecal or epidural) analgesia with
opioids and local anesthetic, e.g., for neuropathic or plexopathy pain, and percutaneous or open cordotomy for
lower extremity pain (35).
Nonpharmacological approaches can be helpful and
include physical therapies for musculoskeletal pain (e.g.,
massage, ultrasound, hydrotherapy, electro acupuncture,
and trigger point injection) and psychological techniques
(e.g., guided imagery, relaxation, hypnosis, biofeedback,
and other cognitive or behavioral methods).

DELIRIUM
Delirium is a neuropsychiatric syndrome characterized by
a disturbance of consciousness with a reduced ability to
focus, sustain, or shift attention, changes in cognition or
perceptual disturbances that occur over a short period of
time and fluctuate over the course of the day (36). It occurs
in the presence of an underlying organic derangement.

Table 20.3

Commonly Used Adjuvant Drugs

• Amitriptyline/nortriptyline 10–25 mg at bed time, titrated up to
150 mg, if needed, for neuropathic pain.
• Gabapentin 100 mg t.d.s (t.i.d.), titrated up to 300 mg t.d.s. for
neuropathic pain [up to 900 mg q.d.s (q.i.d.) in severe cases].
• Dexamethasone 4–10 mg p.o./i.v./s.c. b.d.—t.d.s. and then tapered
for neuropathic, bone, and visceral pain.
• Pregabalin 75 mg b.d. (b.i.d.) titrated up to 300 mg b.d. (start with
25–50 mg b.d. in debilitated patients and titrate slowly) for
neuropathic pain.
• NSAIDs for bone pain and inflammatory pain.
• Pamidronate 90 mg i.v. every 4 weeks or zoledronic acid 4–8 mg i.v.
every 4 weeks for bone pain and hypercalcemia.
• Baclofen 10 mg t.d.s. for painful muscle spasms.
• Methylphenidate 5–10 mg in the morning and 5 mg at noon for
opioid sedation.
• Antibiotics (parenteral route if possible) for painful infections,
especially in patients with head and neck cancers or perineal
disease.

Chapter 20:

The etiology of delirium is often multifactorial (Fig. 20.4).
Three subtypes of delirium have been described according
to the level of psychomotor activity: hyperactive, hypoactive, and mixed. Delirium is present in 26% to 44% of
advanced cancer patients at the time of admission to an
acute care hospital or palliative care unit, and more than
80% of patients will develop delirium in the last hours and
days before death (37). The presence of delirium is an
independent factor in predicting short-term survival of
patients with advanced cancer (37).
Delirium and its recall are an important source of
distress to patients, family caregivers, and health care professionals (38). Delirium challenges patient assessment and
impairs patient communication with family and professional caregivers. Nursing staff may misinterpret the signs
of patients with agitated delirium as increased pain intensity and administer extra unnecessary doses of opioids,
potentially increasing the delirium severity (39).

Diagnosis of Delirium and Assessment
Delirium is frequently misdiagnosed and under recognized, especially hypoactive delirium (40). Hypoactive
delirium may be inaccurately diagnosed as depression.
Subsequent treatment with an antidepressant could exacerbate the delirium. It may also be difficult in the elderly
to distinguish delirium from dementia, which is a known
risk factor for the development of delirium. Routine and
frequent cognitive assessment of patients is necessary for
the early diagnosis and monitoring of delirium. See section
“The Memorial Delirium Assessment Scale.”

Diagnosis and Therapy of Reversible Causes
Although delirium may herald the terminal phase, it has
been shown to be reversible in about 50% of episodes (41).

Medications
e.g., opioids
anticholinergics
steroids
antidepressants
benzodiazepines
neuroleptics

Symptom Control and Palliative Care

Therefore, reversible causes should be identified, and
patients should be given appropriate treatment with simple
interventions (Fig. 20.4). Physicians should conduct a careful clinical examination looking for signs of sepsis, dehydration, and side effects of medication, especially opioids, and
other potential causes of delirium. If appropriate, blood
tests (e.g., full blood count, electrolytes, calcium, renal, and
liver function) and chest X-ray may be performed.
Medication side effects should be managed with discontinuation of the implicated drug if possible. For delirium secondary to opioids, the opioid should be rotated
(substituted) (see section “Opioid Rotation/Substitution”).
If a patient has good pain control, then a decrease in the
opioid dose should be considered as the patient may be
receiving an excessive dose for their pain management
needs. Dehydration should be treated with the administration of parenteral fluids (intravenous or subcutaneous) (see
section “Subcutaneous Route”). Treatment options should
be discussed with the patient and their family to ascertain
their wishes before proceeding with further therapies. Suitable antibiotics may be commenced for infection/sepsis.
Hypoxic patients should receive oxygen and the underlying cause treated if appropriate. Hypercalcemia may be
treated with hydration with saline and bisphosphonates.
For brain tumor or metastases, then high-dose corticosteroids and radiotherapy can be considered.

Nonpharmacological Therapy of Delirium
Simple environmental measures may help in the management of patients with delirium (42). These include ensuring
a physically safe environment, minimizing noise and excessive light, the presence of familiar objects, and enlisting the
family to assist with re-orientation. Family caregivers
observe patient behaviors and experience distress more
frequently than do health care professionals and will

Infection
e.g., pneumonia,
urinary tract
Electrolyte imbalance
infection
e.g., hypercalcemia,
hyponatremia

Dehydration

Side effects of
radiation/chemotherapy
Other medical conditions
e.g., withdrawal
syndromes (alcohol,
medication, nicotine),
coagulopathy,
anemia
Endocrine
e.g., hypoglycemia,
hypothyroidism

357

Delirium

Organ failure
e.g., hepatic,
renal
Paraneoplastic
syndromes

Intracranial disease
Hypoxemia e.g., primary and metastatic
brain tumor, leptomeningeal
disease

Figure 20.4 Multifactorial causes of delirium.

358

Section III: Supportive Aspects

require ongoing education and support (43). Patients will
also require reassurance to help reduce their distress.

Pharmacological Therapy of Delirium
The symptomatic therapy of delirium in advanced cancer
patients should be considered a short-term measure, while
reversible causes are investigated and treated. Haloperidol
is the usual first line neuroleptic agent, although there is
limited evidence from randomized clinical trials (44). It is
a potent dopamine blocking neuroleptic and has limited
anticholinergic effects. Haloperidol is a very effective medication for the treatment of hyperactive and mixed delirium
and has also been used for hypoactive delirium (45). It is
versatile to use with many routes of administration: oral
(p.o.), subcutaneous (s.c.), intravenous (i.v.), and intramuscular (i.m.). To treat agitation, initial doses of haloperidol
1 to 2 mg p.o./s.c./i.v. every six hours and 1 to 2 mg every
two hours as needed are usually effective. The haloperidol
dose should be titrated to effect and can be used as a continuous infusion. Sometimes more frequent dosing is necessary to control severe agitation. The majority of patients
will show improvement in their hyperactive symptoms
within three to five days. If there is no significant response,
a more sedating neuroleptic such as chlorpromazine or
methotrimeprazine (levomepromazine) should be tried.
Newer neuroleptics, the atypical antipsychotics such
as risperidone, olanzapine, and quetiapine, are another
treatment option for delirium (46). They have the advantage of fewer extrapyramidal adverse effects, few drug
interactions, and they can be administered once or twice
daily. Olanzapine may cause rapid weight gain, hyperglycemia, and raise cholesterol and triglyceride levels (47).
With risperidone treatment in elderly dementia patients,
there is a significantly increased risk of cerebrovascular
events (48). There is a parenteral formulation of olanzapine
for intramuscular injection, which has also been administered by the subcutaneous route in some units (49).
Occasionally, patients with ongoing severe agitation
that has been refractory to the above treatments will require
deeper sedation. Medications used to achieve this are
midazolam as a continuous subcutaneous or intravenous
infusion and phenobarbital (phenobarbitone) (50,51).

DYSPNEA
Dyspnea or shortness of breath is a common symptom in
patients with advanced cancer and is frequently present at
the end of life. Dyspnea is a subjective sensation. Therefore,
it is not uncommon for patients with advanced cancer to
feel short of breath in the absence of either a respiratory
condition (e.g., pneumonia, pulmonary embolism, pleural
effusion, and others) or visible/audible respiratory distress
(e.g., use of accessory muscles, raised respiratory rate, and
respiratory noises/stridor). The reverse may also occur.
Patients may exhibit respiratory distress or a thoracic condition, but not experience dyspnea. Consequently, it is
essential to specifically ask patients if they feel short of
breath. Therapy should focus on the alleviation of the subjective sensation, rather than the improvement of patients’
respiratory effort or the correction of abnormalities in
blood gases or pulmonary function.

Causes of Dyspnea
Dyspnea is frequently multicausal. It may be the result of
the tumor itself, e.g., bronchial obstruction, atelectasis,
pleural effusion, carcinomatous lymphangitis, superior
vena cava obstruction, and cardiac tamponade secondary
to a malignant pericardial effusion. It may also be due to
effects of oncological treatment e.g., pneumonitis or fibrosis post radiotherapy or chemotherapy. In addition, nonmalignant causes are frequent complications in patients
with advanced cancer, such as pneumonia, pulmonary
embolism, anemia, and pneumothorax (Fig. 20.5).
Muscle weakness has been proposed as the cause for
dyspnea in patients without an evident underlying cause
(52). Cachexia-anorexia syndrome, frequently present in
patients with advanced cancer, can result in muscle weakness and consequently dyspnea (see section “Cachexia/
Anorexia Syndrome in Cancer Patients”). Psychological
issues such as anxiety may induce or exacerbate the sensation of dyspnea.

Assessment of Dyspnea
The subjective symptom of dyspnea must be differentiated from objective signs such as tachypnea or use of
accessory muscles. Dyspnea can be evaluated using simple tools such as visual analog, numerical, and verbal
rating scales.
As with other symptoms, the expression of dyspnea
can be enhanced by many other factors, including anxiety
and delirium (see section “Multidimensional Assessment”).
These factors should be taken into account to avoid the
administration of excessive medication, which will increase
the likelihood of side effects without improved therapeutic
benefit.

Therapy
Whenever possible, identified reversible causes of dyspnea should be treated. However, in palliative care, it is
important to consider the burden/benefit of treatment
and patient comfort before performing any invasive procedure. Superior vena cava obstruction syndrome can be
treated with high-dose steroids, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or stent placement. Carcinomatous lymphangitis is
treated with corticosteroids and occasionally with aggressive chemotherapy. Significant pleural effusions can be
drained. In patients with good performance status, pleurodesis should be considered, as there is almost a 100%
recurrence rate at one month after pleural aspiration
alone (53). Chemical sclerosants, such as talc, are needed
for successful pleurodesis (53). Pericardial fluid can be
drained by closed needle pericardiocentesis or via surgical incision. Antibiotics can be instigated for the treatment
of pneumonia. Exacerbations of chronic obstructive airways disease may respond to management with bronchodilators, corticosteroids, and antibiotics. For patients with
symptomatic anemia, blood transfusion may be indicated.
For pulmonary embolism, anticoagulation is the appropriate
therapy.
There is some evidence that oxygen therapy can
provide symptomatic relief in cancer patients who are
hypoxemic, but not in those who are nonhypoxemic (54).
Oxygen therapy via nasal prongs may be better tolerated

Chapter 20:

Lung tumor/metastasis/
lymphangitis

Symptom Control and Palliative Care

359

Pleural effusion

Psychosocial
distress/anxiety

Superior vena cava
obstruction syndrome/
cardiac tamponade

Pulmonary embolism

Dyspnea

Muscle
weakness

Pneumonia/
pneumothorax

COPD/
bronchospasm
Congestive heart failure/
cardiac arrhythmia

Figure 20.5

Anemia

Multifactorial causes of dyspnea.

than by mask. Administration of air via nasal prongs to
patients with advanced cancer may also provide similar
symptomatic relief to oxygen, including hypoxemic
patients (55).
Oral and parenteral opioids relieve dyspnea (56).
Morphine is the most studied opioid. The management
of dyspnea with opioids is similar to that of pain (see
section “Initiation of Opioid Therapy”). The starting dose
of morphine for opioid naïve patients is 5 to 10 mg p.o.
(or 2.5–5 mg s.c.) every four hours and 2.5 to 5 mg p.o.
(or 2.5 mg s.c.) hourly as needed for “breakthrough” or
incident dyspnea on exertion (Lower doses of opioid
should be used in frail and elderly patients). If patients
are experiencing ongoing dyspnea, their maintenance
dose of opioid should be increased. Opioids administered
by nebulization have been reported by some authors to
be effective in the management of dyspnea. However,
they have not demonstrated significant efficacy in several
studies (56). Simple saline nebulizers often provide
symptomatic relief.
Health care professionals are often concerned about
using opioids for symptomatic management of dyspnea.
Appropriate doses of opioids can be used safely in patients
with advanced cancer or other terminal diseases, including
opioid-naïve patients, without causing opioid-induced
respiratory depression (57). Opioid therapy can provide
excellent subjective improvement in dyspnea with no obvious change in objective signs. Frequently, patients will
report feeling comfortable although their respiratory rate
remains high. This information is very useful to help
reduce distress in families.
Benzodiazepines may play a role where anxiety is
a significant factor. However, there is no good evidence to
support their routine use in the management of dyspnea (56).

Nonpharmacological interventions are also helpful
for symptomatic relief of dyspnea (58). Use of a fan helps
by creating air movement and facial cooling. Breathlessness
clinics have been shown to significantly improve patients’
breathlessness, activity levels, and distress levels (59). Fear
and anxiety in patients should be addressed. It is also
important to provide education and support to families to
reduce their anxiety, including discussion of expected
changes in breathing pattern as the patient enters the terminal phase.

CACHEXIA/ANOREXIA SYNDROME IN CANCER PATIENTS
Cachexia/anorexia is a complex metabolic syndrome characterized by weight loss, lipolysis, muscle wasting, and
fatigue. The body image changes that result from this syndrome can cause substantial psychological distress to the
patient and family. The social activity of eating is lost with
the act of eating and feeding also having a large cultural
significance.
Cachexia may occur in up to 80% of patients with
advanced cancer. Patients with this syndrome are more
susceptible to medication side effects and have an increase
in morbidity and mortality (60).

Mechanism of Cachexia
For many years, there was a misconception that cachexia
was due to increased energy requirements of the cancer.
However, recent research has shown that cachexia is due
to a catabolic state related to the interaction between tumor
byproducts and the release of cytokines by the host. In
addition, in some patients this condition is aggravated by

360

Section III: Supportive Aspects

a decreased food intake (Fig. 20.6). The cancer releases
proteolytic and lipolytic factors (61). The host, in response
to the cancer, produces several pro-inflammatory cytokines
including tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α), interleukin (IL)-1,
IL-6, and interferon. These cytokines are secreted by macrophages and lead to weight loss, anorexia, and protein
and fat breakdown (61).
Decreased food intake contributes to cachexia, especially in patients with problematical nutrition such as
patients with cancer of the head and neck, esophagus, gastrointestinal tract, or unresolved symptoms such as severe
nausea and vomiting and bowel obstruction. For other
patients, decreased food intake plays only a minor role.

Assessment of Cachexia
Cachexia is the involuntary weight loss of more than 10% of
a patient’s premorbid weight. Nutritional status can be
assessed by measuring skin fold thickness, mid upper arm
circumference, and bioelectrical impedance. Practical laboratory tests, such as albumin and C-reactive protein (CRP) may
also correlate with prognosis (62). Anorexia can be assessed
using visual analog or numerical rating scales, measuring the
patient’s subjective loss of appetite. Anorexia is a multidimensional symptom with many causes (Fig. 20.7). Patients
should be assessed for all reversible contributors to anorexia.
Common related symptoms are fatigue and dyspnea.

Management of Cachexia
Nutritional support is of limited benefit in most cases of
cancer-related cachexia (63). However, it can prolong survival in patients whose cachexia results primarily from
decreased oral food intake, e.g., patients with head and
neck cancer. In this subgroup of patients, medically
assisted nutrition is usually administered by the enteral,
rather than parenteral, route. The gastrostomy route (PEG)
should be considered for advanced cancer patients requiring
prolonged enteral nutrition.
Parenteral nutrition has no advantages over enteral
nutrition in patients with functional bowel and should not
be used routinely (64). It is expensive, complicated to
administer and has a higher morbidity than enteral nutrition, e.g., sepsis, electrolyte and glucose imbalance.
Families often feel an obligation to increase their
loved ones oral intake to “build them up” with the
assumption that this will prevent further weight loss.
Force-feeding of the patient by the well-intentioned family
often exacerbates nausea in the patient and causes psychological distress and conflict. Explanation of the metabolic changes occurring with anorexia should be given to
the patient and family with clarification that simply
increasing oral food intake is unlikely to prolong life in a
patient with advanced cancer. Patients should be encouraged to eat small amounts of their desired foods for comfort and enjoyment.

Tumor

Direct tumor
effect (lipolytic/
proteolytic)

Immune response
e.g., TNF-α, IL-1, lL-6,
interferon

Lipolysis and
protein
catabolism

Metabolic
abnormalities

Anorexia

Cachexia

Figure 20.6

Mechanism of cachexia.

Tumor products
and host factors
Severe symptoms
• Pain
• Dyspnea
• Depression
• Delirium

Chapter 20:

Symptom Control and Palliative Care

Figure 20.7

Multifactorial causes of anorexia.

361

Reduced/
altered taste
Mucositis,
stomatitis

Chemotherapy
Anorexia

Chronic
nausea

Drugs

Constipation,
bowel obstruction

Dysphagia
Decreased gastric
emptying

Pharmacological Interventions
In cachexic patients with chronic nausea, regular metoclopramide can improve appetite and food intake (65) (see
section “Nausea and Vomiting”). For the management of
cachexia/anorexia syndrome, the two most commonly
used agents are corticosteroids and progestagens.
Corticosteroids, such as dexamethasone, increase
patient’s appetite, food intake, sensation of well-being and
performance status. These beneficial effects are short-term
only, lasting approximately four weeks, and do not increase
patients’ weight (66). In addition, steroids have many side
effects including glucose intolerance, proximal myopathy,
insomnia, agitation, euphoria, depression, steroid psychosis, development of cushingoid features, and increased
infection risk. Therefore, prolonged use of steroids is not
recommended. The usual dose of dexamethasone for appetite stimulation is 4 to 8 mg orally daily (in the morning
or as divided doses). The smallest effective dose should be
used, and if no benefit is obtained within a week, it should
be ceased.
Progestagens used in the pharmacological management of cachexia/anorexia include megestrol acetate and
medroxyprogesterone. Megestrol acetate improves appetite
in up to 80% of patients. It also increases weight in approximately 20% of treated patients (mostly due to increased
fat tissue) and sensation of well-being (67). Symptomatic
improvement in appetite occurs within the first week of
therapy, but weight gain may take several weeks. Doserelated symptom improvement starts at 160 mg/day. A
dose of approximately 480 to 800 mg/day of megestrol
acetate is thought to be optimal for weight gain. However,
in a recent Cochrane review, there was insufficient information to ascertain an optimal dose (68). Megestrol acetate
is also an expensive drug (up to 20 times more expensive
than dexamethasone).
For planned long-term use, megestrol acetate is probably preferable to corticosteroids. In a randomized comparison study, megestrol acetate (800 mg/day) had less

toxicity than dexamethasone (0.75 mg four times daily) and
also a trend toward better improved appetite and better
weight gain (69). However, there was a higher rate of deep
vein thrombosis in the megestrol acetate treated group.
Megestrol acetate should not be used in patients with a
history of thromboembolic disease. Other side effects of
megestrol acetate include peripheral edema, hyperglycemia, and adrenal suppression. Symptomatic adrenal insufficiency with hypogonadism in male patients with cancer
has also been described (70).
Medroxyprogesterone acetate may also improve
appetite and weight at doses of 1000 mg/day (equivalent
to megestrol 160 mg/day) (71).
Other pharmacological agents are currently being
investigated as treatments for cachexia/anorexia syndrome (Table 20.4). As cachexia has multiple contributors,
future research is warranted on the effects of combined
therapies, including diet, physical activity, anti-inflammatory
drugs, appetite stimulants, and anabolic (androgenic)
steroids.

Table 20.4
Syndrome

New Emerging Therapies for Cachexia/Anorexia

• Thalidomide
• Melatonin
• Testosterone (and derivatives e.g., oxandrolone)
• Cannabinoids
• Growth hormone
• NSAIDs
• TNF inhibitors
• Ghrelin
• L-carnitine
• Polyunsaturated fatty acids (eicosapentaenoic acid—EPA)

362

Section III: Supportive Aspects

also increase fatigue. Male patients with advanced cancer
or on long term opioid therapy may develop symptomatic
hypogonadism (75,76).

FATIGUE
Fatigue has been defined as a subjective feeling of tiredness, weakness or lack of energy with both a physical and
cognitive dimension (72). It is one of the most common
symptoms in patients with advanced cancer and is associated with a decline in performance status. It is important
to identify fatigue as it adversely impacts on quality of life
and is also associated with the severity of both physical
symptoms (pain, dyspnea, insomnia, anorexia, drowsiness)
and psychological symptoms (anxiety and depression) (73).

Assessment of Fatigue
In a nonspecialized setting, such as oncology departments,
screening for fatigue can be performed with single-item
questions such as “Do you feel unusually tired or weak?”
(72). The patient’s subjective assessment of the severity of
their fatigue can be quantified using visual analog or numerical rating scales. In addition, as fatigue is a multidimensional
model, multiple symptoms should be assessed simultaneously using multidimensional questionnaires, e.g., ESAS
(see section “Assessment”). Other longer and more detailed
instruments are used in the research setting. These include
the 13-item fatigue subscale (which can be used as a stand
alone questionnaire) of the Functional Assessment of Chronic
Illness Therapy (FACIT) measurement system, and brief
fatigue inventory (BFI) (77,78). The EORTC QLQ-C30 has a
three-item fatigue subscale (79), which measures the physical
dimension of fatigue; so, it may not be suitable for a palliative
care patient population (80).

Causes of Fatigue
Cancer-related fatigue is a multidimensional syndrome
that has multiple causes and contributing factors (Fig. 20.8).
Cancer induces pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α) and
interferon, which are involved in the mechanism of fatigue
and other symptoms such as cachexia and anorexia, fever,
anemia, and depression (74).
Cachexia/anorexia syndrome, present in approximately 80% of patients with advanced cancer, causes progressive loss of fat and especially skeletal muscle (see
section “Cachexia/Anorexia Syndrome in Cancer Patients”).
Muscle wasting also contributes to fatigue (61). Immobility,
including prolonged bed rest, leads to deconditioning with
loss of muscle mass which reduces tolerance to both exercise and daily activities. Anemia, common in patients with
advanced cancer, may be secondary to bleeding, myelosuppression related to cancer therapy, bone marrow infiltration, malnutrition and cytokines produced by the tumor.
Profound fatigue can result from severe anemia (hemoglobin <8 g/dL). Psychological factors, such as depression and
anxiety, may cause or exacerbate fatigue. Pre-existing medical comorbidities, such as congestive heart failure, endstage respiratory disease, renal, and hepatic failure, will

Autonomic
failure

Cachexia

Management of Fatigue
After identifying potential contributors to fatigue, specific
reversible causes should be treated. These include pain,
anemia, dehydration, infection, cachexia, depression, and
endocrine abnormalities, such as hypothyroidism, and
hypogonadism. Androgen replacement therapy is currently
being trialed in hypogonadic male patients for the management of fatigue.
Among nonpharmacological interventions, aerobic
exercise has been shown to be effective in reducing fatigue
in patients receiving cancer treatment and cancer survivors
(72). Most trials have been done in patients with good

Chemotherapy/
radiotherapy

Pain
Anemia
Drug side-effects
e.g., opioids
anxiolytics
antihistamines
antiemetics

Dehydration
Fatigue
Infection

Psychological
distress
Paraneoplastic
neurological
syndromes
Cytokines

Metabolic and
endocrine
abnormalities

Muscle
abnormalities/
immobility

Figure 20.8

Multifactorial causes of fatigue.

Chapter 20:

performance status, so it is suggested that exercise training
is adapted in patients with reduced performance status and
gradually increased as tolerated. Input from physical and
occupational therapists is warranted.

Pharmacological Management
As with cachexia/anorexia, symptomatic pharmacological
management of fatigue includes corticosteroids and progestational agents (see section “Cachexia/Anorexia Syndrome in Cancer Patients”). Psychostimulants have also
been used.
Corticosteroids decrease fatigue by an unknown
mechanism. They have a beneficial effect for only a short
period (two to four weeks). After this period, corticosteroids are not only ineffective, but potential side effects of
myopathy and infections will worsen fatigue (see section
“Cachexia/Anorexia Syndrome in Cancer Patients”). The
usual doses are 20 to 40 mg/day of prednisone or its equivalent dose of dexamethasone.
Megestrol acetate may improve fatigue and activity
levels in patients with advanced cancer (67) (see section
“Cachexia/Anorexia Syndrome in Cancer Patients”).
The psychostimulant medication, methylphenidate
has been used to treat a variety of symptoms in advanced
cancer patients. These include treatment of opioid-induced
sedation, depression, and hypoactive delirium as well as
improving cognition and potentiating the analgesic effect
of opioids (81). Studies have shown methylphenidate to be
more effective than placebo in the management of cancer
related fatigue (82). Tolerance to methylphenidate may
develop (21).

NAUSEA AND VOMITING

Symptom Control and Palliative Care

363

The VC, a neuroanatomical region, is situated in adjacent
coordinated sites in the lateral reticular formation of the
medulla and also receives afferents from the gastrointestinal tract, thorax, vestibular system, thalamus, higher brain
stem, and cerebral cortex. Integration of emetogenic stimuli
with parasympathetic activity and stimulation of the motor
efferent pathways from the VC causes vomiting to occur.
Although there are at least 17 different receptors,
some of them tend to be more predominant in certain
zones. The principal receptor in the CTZ is dopamine D2,
whereas the principal VC receptors are histamine H1 and
muscarinic cholinergic Achm, and other receptors such as
serotonin type 2 (5HT2). Both these zones have serotonin
type 3 receptors, 5HT3. Neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptors, predominantly located in areas of the brain stem involved in
emesis, are normally activated by substance P and contribute to the emetic response secondary to chemotherapy.
Chemotherapeutic agents cause nausea and vomiting
by: activation of the CTZ (e.g., release of neurotransmitter
such as dopamine, serotonin, substance P), gastrointestinal
mucosa damage or stimulation of gastrointestinal neurotransmitter receptors (e.g., serotonin, 5HT3), through cortical and vestibular mechanisms and by alteration of taste and
smell (85). Chemotherapy-induced nausea is categorized as
acute, delayed, or anticipatory. In acute emesis, vomiting
occurs 0 to 24 hours after therapy. Emesis is delayed if it
starts 24 or more hours after chemotherapy. Anticipatory or
conditioned emesis begins before chemotherapy treatment.
Patients often have a history of poor control of vomiting
with prior chemotherapy, and patients with a history of
motion sickness are also predisposed (86).

Assessment of Nausea and Vomiting

Mechanism of Nausea and Vomiting

The intensity of nausea should be determined by using
assessment tools such as numerical or visual analog scales.
The frequency and timing of vomits should also be
recorded. Nausea and vomiting usually have multiple
underlying causes (Fig. 20.9).
A review of the patient’s history, associated symptoms, and drug history will often identify the likely
cause(s). Frequently under diagnosed, severe constipation
is a common cause of nausea. The medication regimen
should be inspected for opioids and chemotherapeutic
agents. A physical examination should be conducted to
rule out other possible causes such as oral and esophageal
infection, bowel obstruction, and brain tumor. Laboratory
and clinical investigations, e.g., electrolytes, serum calcium,
renal and liver function, and abdominal X-ray, should be
done according to the suspected underlying cause and
appropriate to the patient’s illness trajectory.

The mechanism of nausea and vomiting is complex with
vomiting occurring as part of a protective reflex pathway.
Centrally, the chemoreceptor trigger zone (CTZ) is
located in the area postrema, in the floor of the fourth
ventricle in the medulla, where there is effectively no blood
brain barrier (84). The capillaries of the area postrema have
a leaky fenestrated endothelium, and permit direct chemical communication between blood and subarachnoid cerebrospinal fluid. The CTZ is connected to the vomiting
center (VC) by neural pathways, with sensory information
processed in the tractus solitarius and its nucleus. The CTZ
may also send outputs directly to VC efferent components.

Reversible causes should be corrected wherever possible.
For example, opioid substitution should be considered if
there is persistent nausea and vomiting as a side effect of
opioid treatment. Hypercalcemia, hyponatremia, and
hypokalemia should be corrected and oral/esophageal
infections treated. Proton pump inhibitors can provide
symptomatic relief for gastroesophageal reflux disease,
dyspepsia, and peptic ulcer disease. Severe constipation
should be treated, and decompression may be required for

Nausea and vomiting is common in patients with advanced
cancer, with a frequency of 40% to 70%, and reported by
patients as having a profound negative impact on their
quality of life. These symptoms can occur independently
of each other, or as part of a continuum with stages of
nausea, retching, and vomiting. Nausea is associated with
hypersalivation, increased respiratory and heart rates,
hypotension, and sweating. Retching occurs when the gut
contents are sucked into the lower esophagus, and the
diaphragm contracts against a closed glottis. Newer antiemetic regimens can prevent chemotherapy induced vomiting in 70% to 80% of patients, but are less effective in
controlling nausea (83).

Therapy

364

Section III: Supportive Aspects

Gastric outlet obstruction/
intestinal obstruction
Severe
constipation

Autonomic failure/
delayed gastric
emptying
Gastroesophageal reflux
disease/gastritis/peptic ulcer
disease/gastric compression/
“squashed stomach syndrome”/
gross ascites

Drugs
e.g., opioids,
antibiotics, digoxin

Psychological factors/
anxiety/anticipatory
(conditioned)

Metabolic disorders
e.g., hypercalcemia,
hyponatremia, liver
failure, renal failure

Nausea and
vomiting

Oral/esophageal
infection or lesions,
esophagitis

Toxins
e.g., sepsis, urinary tract
infection, tumor produced
peptides
Vestibular stimulation
e.g., motion sickness, Menières,
labyrinthitis, base of skull disease

Chemotherapy/
radiotherapy
Raised intracranial pressure
e.g., brain tumor or metastasis,
leptomeningeal disease

Figure 20.9

Multifactorial causes of nausea and vomiting.

mechanical bowel obstructions. Raised intracranial pressure
due to brain tumor or metastasis can be treated with
corticosteroids and cranial irradiation.
General measures for management include avoiding
the smell of cooking food, trying easily digested foods, and
small attractive meals. Patients may need assistance to sit
upright in bed, or out of bed, for meals. Acupuncture point
stimulation reduces acute chemotherapy-induced vomiting, and acupressure may reduce acute nausea (87). Behavioral therapy with systematic desensitization is
recommended for anticipatory (conditioned) emesis with
chemotherapy, where there is also a role for lorazepam or
alprazolam (86).
Pharmacological management is often guided by
considering the potential cause(s) of nausea and vomiting
in each case and utilizing known receptor site antagonism
by antiemetic drugs (88). Common clinical pictures have
also been used to guide treatment in a specialist inpatient
palliative care unit (89). However, there is currently little
research evidence to support this (90). A nonoral route,
e.g., continuous subcutaneous infusion (CSCI), should be
used for the management of vomiting or persistent nausea
and the patient reevaluated at regular intervals for efficacy.
For refractory nausea and vomiting, combinations of parenteral antiemetics targeting different receptor sites are
often used in clinical practice. Parenteral rehydration may
be required.
Metoclopramide and domperidone have both central
(block D2 receptors in CTZ) and peripheral effects. They are

prokinetics and stimulate gastric and intestinal motility,
which appears to be mediated by local release of acetylcholine and may cause colic if used in complete mechanical
bowel obstruction. Antimuscarinics will block this peripheral prokinetic effect, making it counterproductive to give
them concurrently (91). There is minimal risk of extrapyramidal effects with domperidone, as it does not normally
cross the blood–brain barrier. Metoclopramide is the most
commonly used antiemetic medication in palliative care. It
is also a 5HT4 receptor agonist and acts as a 5HT3 receptor
antagonist at higher doses. As opioids produce emesis by
acting centrally (via CTZ) and peripherally (reduce motility
throughout gastrointestinal tract), metoclopramide is often
the first choice antiemetic for preventing and treating opioidinduced nausea and vomiting. (However, in some countries, haloperidol is used for this indication due to its more
potent central inhibitory effects). The usual dose of metoclopramide is 10 mg p.o./s.c./i.v. every four hours, or by
continuous infusion, up to 120 mg/24 hours.
Haloperidol is a potent specific D2 receptor antagonist at CTZ. It has a long half-life, so is often given as a 1
to 3 mg nocte maintenance dose. Extrapyramidal adverse
effects are unusual at low doses, <5 mg/24 hours.
Cyclizine and diphenhydramine are antihistaminic
antimuscarinic antiemetics acting on the H1 receptor in the
VC and vestibular system. They are a useful option if the
patient’s nausea and vomiting has a vestibular component
and also in cases of intestinal obstruction or raised intracranial pressure. In practice, antihistaminic antimuscarinic

Chapter 20:

anti-emetics are often used in conjunction with haloperidol,
providing broader receptor blockade. Cyclizine has the
advantage of subcutaneous administration, but some
patients do experience skin irritation. Common doses of
cyclizine used in clinical practice are 25 to 50 mg p.o. every
eight hours and 100 to 300 mg/24 hours by CSCI.
In contrast to cyclizine, promethazine hydrochloride
is not only a long-acting antihistamine but also a phenothiazine. In view of this, in addition to antihistaminic and
antimuscarinic cholinergic properties, promethazine also
has antidopaminergic activity. However, its CTZ antagonism is much weaker than that of haloperidol.
Prochlorperazine is a “broad spectrum” antiemetic
with coverage at D2, H1, Achm (weak) and α1 adrenoreceptors. It may cause extrapyramidal adverse effects. Unfortunately, its use is limited as it is too irritant to be
administered by the subcutaneous route. Rectal suppositories are available and can be particularly useful in the
community setting. Levomepromazine (methotrimeprazine) is a more sedating phenothiazine than prochlorperazine. In addition to the same broad receptor coverage of
prochlorperazine, as listed above, it also is a potent 5HT2
receptor antagonist. The usual antiemetic dose is 6.25 to
25 mg/24 hours. (Higher doses can be used in the management of agitation.)
Corticosteroids, such as dexamethasone, are known
for their intrinsic antiemetic effect and also because they
increase the antiemetic properties of other medications (92).
The mechanism is not well defined. Corticosteroids are
usually added to current antiemetic medication in refractory cases, as second line therapy. Dexamethasone is
administered in a dose ranging from 8 mg each morning
to 10 mg p.o./s.c./i.v. twice a day. To avoid the common
adverse effect of insomnia, the latest scheduled dose should
be no later than 14:00 hours. Once control is achieved,
rapid dose tapering is indicated.
Octreotide, a synthetic somatostatin analog, can play
a useful role in the management of inoperable intestinal
obstruction and is more effective than hyoscine butylbromide (93). It reduces both gastrointestinal motility and
secretions, with consequent reduction in gut distension,
nausea stimulus, and number of daily vomits. Reported
effective daily doses are 0.1 to 0.6 mg, given by CSCI or
intermittent subcutaneous boluses (94). Hyoscine butylbromide remains a useful alternative in reducing vomiting in
malignant intestinal obstruction as it also reduces intestinal
secretions, in addition to associated colic pain. It is a widely
available (but not in the United States) peripherally acting
antimuscarinic and is much cheaper than octreotide.
Hyoscine hydrobromide is an antimuscarinic with
both central and peripheral actions. It is used as a prophylactic treatment for motion sickness and also in the management of inoperable intestinal obstruction. However,
unlike hyoscine butylbromide, the hydrobromide salt may
cause sedation and delirium, as it crosses the blood–brain
barrier. A transdermal patch formulation is still available
in some countries.
5HT3-Receptor antagonists are indicated for nausea
and vomiting during treatment with chemotherapy and
radiotherapy and to prevent postoperative emesis. They
have also been used in the management of ongoing vomiting, especially from chemical, cerebral, and gut causes,
when first line antiemetics have failed (95). Headache is a

Symptom Control and Palliative Care

365

very common adverse effect in up to 20% of patients and
constipation is also common (96).
More recently, an antiemetic regimen with aprepitant,
a neurokinin-1(NK-1)-receptor antagonist, has been shown
to be more effective than a regimen with ondansetron and
dexamethasone for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced
nausea and vomiting (CINV) (97). Aprepitant inhibits
CYP3A4 and induces CYP2D6 leading to potential drug
interactions. European and American guidelines now recommend the use of aprepitant in CINV (86,98). Before chemotherapy of high emetic risk, the three-drug combination
of a 5HT3 serotonin receptor antagonist, dexamethasone,
and aprepitant is recommended.
Cannabinoids have antiemetic effects. Their use in routine clinical practice is limited because of their undesirable
effects such as drowsiness and hallucinations.

CONSTIPATION
Constipation is defined as the passage of small hard
stools infrequently and with difficulty and is a prevalent
symptom in patients with advanced cancer. It occurs in
40% to 70% of patients referred to a palliative care service and nearly 90% of patients on oral strong opioids
(99). Constipation is frequently under diagnosed and
potential complications are usually underestimated by
physicians. Frequency of bowel action is a poor guide to
colonic function, so simply asking patients when their
bowels last opened does not provide enough information
to aid management. Stool form and consistency, as
assessed by the Bristol stool form scale, have been shown
to be well correlated with intestinal transit time and fecal
output (100).

Clinical Manifestation
Constipation causes abdominal bloating and colic pain and
often leads to increased flatulence. It may cause nausea
and anorexia, and rarely vomiting. Untreated constipation
may result in fecal impaction, and associated “overflow
diarrhea.” This diarrhea is due to the production of mucus
by the rectum in addition to bacterial liquefaction of fecal
material proximal to the obstruction. As a result, patients
have frequent passage of small amounts of watery feces or
the continuous seepage of moist stool and mucus. This
situation can deteriorate if the patient is treated with antidiarrheal medications, as this will lead to further constipation. Constipation is a recognized precipitant for delirium
in the elderly (40). Patients with constipation may also
experience rectal pain from associated rectal fissure and
hemorrhoids, and tenesmus.
Colonic perforation is a rare life-threatening complication. Fecal impaction can cause increased pressure on the
bowel wall, resulting in ischemic necrosis of the mucosa
leading to pain and bleeding. When severe, perforation
may occur. The use of corticosteroids may increase the risk
of this fatal complication.

Assessment of Constipation
Physicians need to assess patients’ bowel habits regularly.
In the evaluation, they should include questions about the
consistency and quantity of the stool, difficulty in defecation,

366

Section III: Supportive Aspects

and symptoms related to constipation, such as abdominal
bloating and pain, or nausea. Factors contributing to
constipation should also be reviewed (Fig. 20.10).
Examination is important and includes a rectal
examination, especially if low fecal impaction suspected.
A plain abdominal X-ray can be helpful if the diagnosis
is difficult.

Therapy
Physicians should proactively manage constipation and
prevention is crucial. In the non-pharmacological management of constipation, patients should be encouraged to
toilet regularly at the same time each day and make use
of the gastrocolic reflex that occurs shortly after eating.
Patients should endeavor to maintain adequate hydration
and not accept constipation as a consequence of anorexia.
A private environment for toileting should be available
and patients should be assisted to sit upright with feet on
the ground where possible.
Prophylactic oral laxatives should be prescribed, or an
existing laxative regimen adjusted, for all patients commencing strong opioids. Docusate 50 mg and sennosides 8.6 mg,
one to two tablets p.o. b.d., is a commonly used combined
preparation with both fecal softening and stimulant actions.
The dose of laxative should be titrated according to the
patient’s response, and may need increasing up to two to
four tablets every six hours to produce a regular bowel
action without straining every one to three days. However,
the role of docusate is controversial. A recent nonrandomized study in two cohorts of hospitalized cancer patients
receiving docusate plus sennosides or sennosides alone
showed that the docusate plus sennosides bowel protocol
was less effective and more expensive (101). An increase in

Metabolic disorders
e.g., hypercalcemia,
hypokalemia, anemia,
hypothyroidism

Autonomic
failure

Opioids

opioid dose often necessitates an increase in laxative dose
(99). (Methadone and fentanyl are less constipating than
morphine) (26,102). If docusate-senna or sennosides alone
are not effective when used in increasing doses, then another
laxative such as lactulose or polyethylene glycol should be
added. (These two laxatives may also be preferable in
patients unable to tolerate senna because of colic). Lactulose
is an osmotic laxative so patients will need to have a reasonable fluid intake. It can cause abdominal bloating and flatulence. The usual lactulose dose of 10 to 30 ml p.o. b.d. may
need increasing to 30 ml six hourly. Low dose polyethylene
glycol (macrogol) and electrolytes is an oral “iso-osmotic”
laxative that can also be used in the management of fecal
impaction (103). If intestinal obstruction is suspected, stimulant laxatives should be ceased and only laxatives with a
softening action used.
At times, rectal measures are needed in addition if
oral laxatives are ineffective. Glycerin/glycerol suppositories soften the stool and bisacodyl suppositories stimulate propulsive activity. Mini-enemas are useful in
patients with advanced cancer because of their small volume, and hence better tolerated than the administration
of large volume high enemas, which is often exhausting
for frail patients. Manual disimpaction may sometimes
be necessary.
There has been recent interest in the use of peripherally acting mu-opioid antagonists. Methylnaltrexone and
alvimopan have been shown to be more effective than placebo in reversing constipation and opioid-induced increased
gastrointestinal transit time, but their long-term efficacy and
safety is currently unknown (104). In view of concerns of
an increase in cardiovascular events in patients treated with
alvimopan compared with placebo, the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) has recently approved it for use in

Other medications
e.g., anticholinergics,
antidepressants (especially tricyclic),
phenothiazines, 5 HT3 receptor
antagonists, iron, antacids

Constipation

Bowel
obstruction
Local rectal causes
e.g., hemorrhoids,
anal fissure

Environmental factors
e.g., lack of privacy,
use of bed pan

Cancer-related
e.g., intra-abdominal
or pelvic disease,
spinal cord
compression

General debility
• anorexia
• reduced oral
fluids
• reduced
mobility

Figure 20.10 Multifactorial causes
of constipation.

Chapter 20:

the United States with a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation
Strategy (REMS) for hospitalized bowel surgery patients
only (www.fda.gov). A recent double-blind, randomized
study in patients with advanced illness and opioid-induced
constipation has shown that subcutaneous methylnaltrexone
in a dose of 5 mg or greater was significantly more effective
than a dose of 1 mg (105). Approximately 50% of patients
had a laxation response within four hours after the first dose
(≥5 mg). Methylnaltrexone did not reduce analgesia or cause
opioid withdrawal symptoms but there were mild gastrointestinal adverse events, such as abdominal pain, diarrhea,
flatulence, and nausea. Methylnaltrexone recently received
FDA approval in the United States for opioid-induced
constipation in patients with advanced illness.

SUBCUTANEOUS ROUTE
When a patient with advanced cancer is unable to take
oral medications or fluids, or when a rapid effect of a
medication is needed, the subcutaneous route is an effective option for most medications. It is particularly useful
in the community setting where there is limited administration of intravenous medications and fluids but where
medications are often given by continuous subcutaneous
infusion (CSCI). It is also less invasive and less restrictive
for the patient and can be maintained over prolonged
periods of time. Responsible family caregivers can be
trained to administer intermittent subcutaneous injections
of medications (106).
Common sites for placing butterfly needles (25 or 23
gauge) are the anterior chest wall and anterior abdominal
wall. (Edematous areas should be avoided). The needle
should be inserted at 30° to 45° into the subcutaneous
tissue. With nonirritant drugs, subcutaneous sites may last
up to seven days (107). If frequent resiting is needed (i.e.,
<48 hours), a plastic cannula could be trialed instead of a
metal butterfly needle. With known irritant drugs, the
solution should be diluted as much as is practicable or
changed to a less irritant alternative medication. A low
dose of dexamethasone (e.g., 0.5–1 mg) can be added last
to the syringe (if compatible with the already diluted drug
solution) (108).
The subcutaneous route may also be used for medically assisted hydration. One liter of fluid a day usually
provides adequate hydration, due to altered fluid homeostasis in advanced cancer patients. Suitable fluids are normal saline or two-thirds dextrose (5%) and one-third
normal saline solution. Fluids can be infused over
24 hours, overnight or as boluses of 250 ml over an hour,
three or four times a day. The last method is less restrictive
for the patient and family.

ETHICAL ISSUES IN PALLIATIVE CARE AT THE END OF LIFE
Palliative Sedation
Palliative sedation therapy is the use of proportionate
sedation to reduce patient consciousness to achieve symptom control at the end of life for intractable symptoms
that have remained refractory to all possible treatments
and cause intolerable suffering (109). Appropriately
titrated palliative sedation to relieve intractable distress in
the dying is an ethically and legally accepted intervention

Symptom Control and Palliative Care

367

and is distinct from euthanasia as the aim is to relieve
suffering and not to shorten life. Consultation with palliative care experts is advisable before initiating palliative
sedation therapy (109). Drugs used for palliative sedation
include midazolam, levomepromazine (methotrimeprazine), lorazepam, phenobarbital (phenobarbitone), and
propofol (109).
“Respite” sedation is a planned temporary sedation
that is reversed and may be used to break a cycle of
patient distress associated with a temporarily uncontrolled
symptom (110).

Patient Desire for Hastened Death
Patients may express a desire for hastened death, but are
often not intending a literal request for euthanasia/
assisted suicide. The factors associated with this desire
are often complex and more often related to psychosocial
and existential distress rather than pain or other physical
symptoms (111). Following on from a recent systematic
review, multidisciplinary recommendations on approaches
to responding to patients making a “desire to die” statement have been published (112). Therapeutic communication
is a key principle.

Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide
Currently, there is much ongoing discussion around the
world in both medicine and society regarding this issue,
with euthanasia and assisted suicide legalized in some
countries.
Euthanasia is killing on request and has been defined
as “a doctor intentionally killing a person by the administration of drugs, at that person’s voluntary and competent
request,” whereas physician-assisted suicide has been
defined as “a doctor intentionally helping a person to commit suicide by providing drugs for self-administration, at
that person’s voluntary and competent request” (113).
In this overview chapter of palliative care, it is not
possible to discuss this controversial area in great depth,
but the interested reader is referred to some seminal articles
to help inform this topical debate (113–115).

SUMMARY
The symptoms reviewed here are some of the primary
symptoms experienced by palliative care patients. This
review is by no means exhaustive. The continued goal of
palliative care is to address all symptoms adversely affecting quality of life and to recognize when medical treatment
has become increasingly burdensome and is disproportionately interfering with patients’ quality of life as they
approach the end of life. Future directions should continue
to focus on interdisciplinary collaboration and to further
research to improve therapies for the symptom control of
palliative care patients.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Eduardo Bruera is supported in part by National Institutes
of
Health
grant
numbers
RO1NR010162-01-A1,
RO1CA122292-01, RO1CA124481-01.

368

Section III: Supportive Aspects

REFERENCES
1. WHO 2002: WHO definition of palliative care. Available at:
http://www.who.int/cancer/palliative/definition/en/
[Accessed 13 June 2008].
2. Homsi J, Walsh D, Rivera N et al. Symptom evaluation in
palliative medicine: patient report vs. systematic assessment.
Support Care Cancer 2006; 14: 444–53.
3. Bruera E, Kuehn N, Miller MJ et al. The Edmonton Symptom
Assessment System (ESAS): a simple method for the assessment
of palliative care patients. J Palliat Care 1991; 7: 6–9.
4. Breitbart W, Rosenfeld B, Roth A et al. The Memorial Delirium
Assessment Scale. J Pain Symptom Manage 1997; 13:
128–37.
5. Bruera E, Moyano J, Seifert L et al. The frequency of alcoholism
among patients with pain due to terminal cancer. J Pain
Symptom Manage 1995; 10: 599–603.
6. Mayfield D, McLeod G, Hall P. The CAGE questionnaire:
validation of a new alcoholism screening instrument. Am J
Psychiatry 1974; 131: 1121–3.
7. Viganò A, Dorgan M, Buckingham J et al. Survival prediction
in terminal cancer patients: a systematic review of the medical
literature. Palliat Med 2000; 14: 363–74.
8. Kaasa T, Loomis J, Gillis K et al. The Edmonton Functional
Assessment Tool: preliminary development and evaluation
for use in palliative care. J Pain Symptom Manage 1997; 13:
10–19.
9. Keith RA, Granger CV, Hamilton BB et al. The functional
independence measure: a new tool for rehabilitation. Adv
Clin Rehabil 1987; 1: 6–18.
10. Portenoy RK, Lesage P. Management of cancer pain. Lancet
1999; 353: 1695–700.
11. Zech DF, Grond S, Lynch J et al. Validation of World Health
Organization Guidelines for Cancer Pain Relief: a 10-year
prospective study. Pain 1995; 63: 65–76.
12. Ashby MA, Fleming BG, Brooksbank M et al. Description of
a mechanistic approach to pain management in advanced
cancer. Preliminary report. Pain 1992; 51: 153–61.
13. Bush SH. Episodic pain. In: Bruera E, Higginson IJ, Ripamonti C
et al., eds. Textbook of Palliative Medicine. London: Hodder
Arnold, 2006: 505–11.
14. Portenoy RK, Hagen NA. Breakthrough pain: definition,
prevalence and characteristics. Pain 1990; 41: 273–81.
15. Hwang SS, Chang VT, Fairclough DL et al. Development of
a cancer pain prognostic scale. J Pain Symptom Manage 2002;
24: 366–78.
16. Fainsinger RL, Nekolaichuk CL, Lawlor PG et al. A multicenter study of the revised Edmonton Staging System for
classifying cancer pain in advanced cancer patients. J Pain
Symptom Manage 2005; 29: 224–37.
17. McQuay HJ, Moore A. Non-opioid analgesics. In: Doyle D,
Hanks G, Cherny NI et al., eds. Oxford Textbook of Palliative
Medicine, 3rd edn. New York: Oxford University Press, 2004:
342–9.
18. Stockler M, Vardy J, Pillai A et al. Acetaminophen (paracetamol)
improves pain and well-being in people with advanced cancer
already receiving a strong opioid regimen: a randomized,
double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over trial. J Clin Oncol
2004; 22: 3389–94.
19. Mercadante S. The use of anti-inflammatory drugs in cancer
pain. Cancer Treat Rev 2001; 27: 51–61.
20. Murtagh FE, Chai MO, Donohoe P et al. The use of opioid
analgesia in end-stage renal disease patients managed without dialysis: recommendations for practice. J Pain Palliat Care
Pharmacother 2007; 21: 5–16.
21. Bruera E, Brenneis C, Paterson AH et al. Use of methylphenidate
as an adjuvant to narcotic analgesics in patients with
advanced cancer. J Pain Symptom Manage 1989; 4: 3–6.

22. Bruera E, Driver L, Barnes EA et al. Patient-controlled
methylphenidate for the management of fatigue in patients
with advanced cancer: a preliminary report. J Clin Oncol
2003; 21: 4439–43.
23. Ripamonti C, Bruera E. CNS adverse effects of opioids in
cancer patients. CNS Drugs 1997; 8: 21–37.
24. Mercadante S, Bruera E. Opioid switching: a systematic and
critical review. Cancer Treat Rev 2006; 32: 304–15.
25. Foley KM. Controversies in cancer pain. Medical perspectives. Cancer 1989; 63: 2257–65.
26. Hanks G, Cherny NI, Fallon M. Opioid analgesic therapy. In:
Doyle D, Hanks G, Cherny NI et al., eds. Oxford Textbook
of Palliative Medicine, 3rd edn. New York: Oxford University
Press, 2004: 316–41.
27. Indelicato RA, Portenoy RK. Opioid rotation in the management of refractory cancer pain. J Clin Oncol 2002; 20: 348–52.
28. Ripamonti C, Groff L, Brunelli C et al. Switching from morphine to oral methadone in treating cancer pain: what is the
equianalgesic dose ratio? J Clin Oncol 1998; 16: 3216–21.
29. Ayonrinde OT, Bridge DT. The rediscovery of methadone for
cancer pain management. Med J Aust 2000; 173: 536–40.
30. Bruera E, Sweeney C. Methadone use in cancer patients with
pain: a review. J Palliat Med 2002; 5: 127–38.
31. Fisher K, Stiles C, Hagen NA. Characterization of the early
pharmacodynamic profile of oral methadone for cancer-related
breakthrough pain: a pilot study. J Pain Symptom Manage
2004; 28: 619–25.
32. Ripamonti C, De Conno F, Groff L et al. Equianalgesic dose/
ratio between methadone and other opioid agonists in cancer
pain: comparison of two clinical experiences. Ann Oncol 1998;
9: 79–83.
33. Centeno C, Vara F. Intermittent subcutaneous methadone
administration in the management of cancer pain. J Pain Palliat
Care Pharmacother 2005; 19: 7–12.
34. Jackson K, Ashby M, Martin P et al. “Burst” ketamine for
refractory cancer pain: an open-label audit of 39 patients.
J Pain Symptom Manage 2001; 22: 834–42.
35. Cramond T. Invasive techniques for neuropathic pain in
cancer. In: Bruera E, Portenoy RK, eds. Topics in Palliative
Care, Volume 2. New York: Oxford University Press, 1998:
63–86.
36. American Psychiatric Association (APA). Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th edn. Washington
DC: American Psychiatric Association, 2000.
37. Centeno C, Sanz A, Bruera E. Delirium in advanced cancer
patients. Palliat Med 2004; 18: 184–94.
38. Breitbart W, Gibson C, Tremblay A. The delirium experience:
delirium recall and delirium-related distress in hospitalized
patients with cancer, their spouse/caregivers, and their
nurses. Psychosomatics 2002; 43: 183–94.
39. Bruera E, Fainsinger RL, Miller MJ et al. The assessment of
pain intensity in patients with cognitive failure: a preliminary
report. J Pain Symptom Manage 1992; 7: 267–70.
40. Young J, Innouye SK. Delirium in older people. BMJ 2007;
334: 842–6.
41. Lawlor PG, Gagnon B, Mancini IL et al. Occurrence, causes,
and outcome of delirium in patients with advanced cancer.
A prospective study. Arch Intern Med 2000; 160: 786–94.
42. Zimberg M, Berenson S. Delirium in patients with cancer:
nursing assessment and intervention. Oncol Nurs Forum
1990; 17: 529–38.
43. Bruera E, Bush SH, Willey J et al. Impact of delirium and
recall on the level of distress in patients with advanced
cancer and their family caregivers. Cancer 2009 Feb 24. [Epub
ahead of print].
44. Seitz DP, Gill SS, van Zyl LT. Antipsychotics in the treatment
of treatment of delirium: a systematic review. J Clin Psychiatry
2007; 68: 11–21.

Chapter 20:
45. Platt MM, Breitbart W, Smith M et al. Efficacy of neuroleptics
for hypoactive delirium. J Neuropsychiatry Clin Neurosci
1994; 6: 66–7.
46. Boettger S, Breitbart W. Atypical antipsychotics in the management of delirium: a review of the empirical literature.
Palliat Support Care 2005; 3: 227–37.
47. Jayaram MB, Hosalli P, Stroup S. Risperidone versus
olanzapine for schizophrenia. Cochrane Database Syst
Rev 2006; CD005237. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD005237.
pub2
48. Schneider LS, Dagerman K, Insel PS. Efficacy and adverse
effects of atypical antipsychotics for dementia: meta-analysis
of randomized, placebo-controlled trials. Am J Geriatr
Psychiatry 2006; 14: 191–210.
49. Delgado-Guay M, Curry E, Bruera E et al. Subcutaneous
olanzapine for hyperactive or mixed delirium in a comprehensive cancer center. Palliat Med 2008; 22: 457, poster
abstract 191.
50. Burke AL, Diamond PL, Hulbert J et al. Terminal restlessness—
its management and the role of midazolam. Med J Aust 1991;
155: 485–7.
51. Stirling LC, Kurowska A, Tookman A. The use of phenobarbitone in the management of agitation and seizures at the
end of life. J Pain Symptom Manage 1999; 17: 363–8.
52. Kongragunta VR, Druz WS, Sharp JT. Dyspnea and diaphragmatic fatigue in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease. Responses to theophylline. Am Rev Respir Dis 1988;
137: 662–7.
53. Antunes G, Neville, Duffy J et al. BTS guidelines for the
management of malignant pleural effusions. Thorax 2003; 58:
29–38.
54. Bruera E, de Stoutz N, Velasco-Leiva A et al. Effects of oxygen on dyspnoea in hypoxaemic terminal-cancer patients.
Lancet 1993; 342: 13–14.
55. Philip J, Gold M, Milner A et al. A randomized, double-blind,
crossover trial of the effect of oxygen on dyspnea in patients
with advanced cancer. J Pain Symptom Manage 2006; 32:
541–50.
56. Viola R, Kiteley C, Lloyd NS et al. The management of
dyspnea in cancer patients: a systematic review. Support Care
Cancer 2008; 16: 329–37.
57. Clemens KE, Quednau I, Klaschik E. Is there a higher risk of
respiratory depression in opioid-naive palliative care patients
during symptomatic therapy of dyspnea with strong opioids?
J Palliat Med 2008; 11: 204–16.
58. Booth S, Moosaci SH, Higginson IJ. The etiology and management of intractable breathlessness in patients with advanced
cancer: a systematic review of pharmacological therapy. Nat
Clin Pract Oncol 2008; 5: 90–100.
59. Hately J, Laurence V, Scott A et al. Breathlessness clinics
within specialist palliative care settings can improve the quality of life and functional capacity of patients with lung cancer. Palliat Med 2003; 17: 410–17.
60. Ma G, Alexander HR. Prevalence and pathophysiology of
cancer cachexia. In: Bruera E, Portenoy RK, eds. Topics in
Palliative Care, Volume 2. New York: Oxford University
Press, 1998: 91–129.
61. Strasser F. Pathophysiology of the anorexia/cachexia
syndrome. In: Doyle D, Hanks G, Cherny NI et al., eds.
Oxford Textbook of Palliative Medicine, 3rd edn. New York:
Oxford University Press, 2004: 520–33.
62. Elahi MM, McMillan DC, McArdle CS et al. Score based on
hypoalbuminemia and elevated C-reactive protein predicts
survival in patients with advanced gastrointestinal cancer.
Nutr Cancer 2004; 48: 171–3.
63. Klein S, Koretz RL. Nutrition support in patients with cancer:
what do the data really show? Nutr Clin Pract 1994; 9:
91–100.

Symptom Control and Palliative Care

369

64. Mercadante S. Parenteral versus enteral nutrition in cancer
patients: indications and practice. Support Care Cancer 1998;
6: 85–93.
65. Pereira J, Bruera E. Chronic nausea. In: Bruera E, Higginson I,
eds. Cachexia-Anorexia in Cancer Patients. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 1996: 23–37.
66. Gagnon B, Bruera E. A review of the drug treatment of
cachexia associated with cancer. Drugs 1998; 55: 675–88.
67. Bruera E, Ernst S, Hagen N et al. Effectiveness of megestrol
acetate in patients with advanced cancer: a randomized,
double-blind, crossover study. Cancer Prev Control 1998; 2:
74–8.
68. Berenstein EG, Ortiz Z. Megestrol acetate for treatment
of anorexia-cachexia syndrome. Cochrane Database Syst
Rev 2005; CD004310. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004310.
pub2.
69. Loprinzi CL, Kugler JW, Sloan JA et al. Randomized
comparison of megestrol acetate versus dexamethasone
versus fluoxymesterone for the treatment of cancer anorexia/
cachexia. J Clin Oncol 1999; 17: 3299–306.
70. Dev R, Del Fabbro E, Bruera E. Association between megestrol acetate treatment and symptomatic adrenal insufficiency
with hypogonadism in male patients with cancer. Cancer
2007; 110: 1173–7.
71. Simons JP, Aaronson NK, Vansteenkiste JF et al. Effects of
medroxyprogesterone acetate on appetite, weight, and quality
of life in advanced-stage non-hormone-sensitive cancer: a
placebo-controlled multicenter study. J Clin Oncol 1996; 14:
1077–84.
72. Radbruch L, Strasser F, Elsner F et al. Fatigue in palliative
care patients—an EAPC approach. Palliat Med 2008; 22:
13–32.
73. Yennurajalingam S, Palmer JL, Zhang T et al. Association
between fatigue and other cancer-related symptoms in
patients with advanced cancer. Support Care Cancer 2008;
(epub ahead of print). DOI 10.1007/s00520-008-0466-5.
74. Kurzrock R. The role of cytokines in cancer-related fatigue.
Cancer 2001; 92(6 Suppl): 1684–8.
75. Strasser F, Palmer JL, Schover LR et al. The impact of hypogonadism and autonomic dysfunction on fatigue, emotional
function, and sexual desire in male patients with advanced
cancer: a pilot study. Cancer 2006; 107: 2949–57.
76. Rajagopal A, Vassilopoulou-Sellin R, Palmer JL et al. Symptomatic hypogonadism in male survivors of cancer with
chronic exposure to opioids. Cancer 2004; 100: 851–8.
77. Yellen SB, Cella DF, Webster K et al. Measuring fatigue and
other anemia-related symptoms with the Functional Assessment
of Cancer Therapy (FACT) measurement system. J Pain
Symptom Manage 1997; 13: 63–74.
78. Mendoza TR, Wang XS, Cleeland CS et al. The rapid assessment
of fatigue severity in cancer patients: use of the Brief Fatigue
Inventory. Cancer 1999; 85: 1186–96.
79. Aaronson NK, Ahmedzai S, Bergman B et al. The European
Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer QLQ-C30:
a quality-of-life instrument for use in international clinical
trials in oncology. J Natl Cancer Inst 1993; 85: 365–76.
80. Knobel H, Loge JH, Brenne E et al. The validity of EORTC
QLQ-C30 fatigue scale in advanced cancer patients and cancer survivors. Palliat Med 2003; 17: 664–72.
81. Sood A, Barton DL, Loprinzi CL. Use of methylphenidate in
patients with cancer. Am J Hosp Palliat Care 2006; 23:
35–40.
82. Minton O, Stone P, Richardson A et al. Drug therapy for the
management of cancer related fatigue. Cochrane Database
Syst Rev 2008; CD006704. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006704.
pub2
83. Jordan K, Schmoll HJ, Aapro MS. Comparative activity of
antiemetic drugs. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol 2007; 61: 162–75.

370

Section III: Supportive Aspects

84. Mannix KA. Palliation of nausea and vomiting. In: Doyle D,
Hanks G, Cherny NI et al., eds. Oxford Textbook of Palliative
Medicine, 3rd edn. New York: Oxford University Press, 2004:
459–68.
85. Berger AM, Clark-Snow RA. Chemotherapy-related nausea
and vomiting. In: Berger AM, Shuster JL, Von Roenn JH, eds.
Principles and Practice of Palliative Care and Supportive
Oncology, 3rd edn. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams
and Wilkins, 2007: 139–49.
86. American Society of Clinical Oncology Guideline for Antiemetics in Oncology: update 2006. Available at: http://www.
asco.org/guidelines/antiemetics [accessed 24 April 2008].
87. Ezzo JM, Richardson MA, Vickers A et al. Acupuncture-point
stimulation for chemotherapy-induced nausea or vomiting.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2006; CD002285. DOI:
10.1002/14651858.CD002285.pub2
88. Stephenson J, Davies A. An assessment of aetiology-based
guidelines for the management of nausea and vomiting in
patients with advanced cancer. Support Care Cancer 2006; 14:
348–53.
89. Bentley A, Boyd K. Use of clinical pictures in the management
of nausea and vomiting: a prospective audit. Palliat Med
2001; 15: 247–53.
90. Glare P, Pereira G, Kristjanson LJ et al. Systematic review of
the efficacy of antiemetics in the treatment of nausea in
patients with far-advanced cancer. Support Care Cancer 2004;
12: 432–40.
91. Twycross R, Back I. Nausea and vomiting in advanced cancer.
European Journal of Palliative Care 1998; 5: 39–45.
92. Grunberg SM. Antiemetic activity of corticosteroids in
patients receiving cancer chemotherapy: dosing, efficacy, and
tolerability analysis. Ann Oncol 2007; 2: 233–40.
93. Mercadante S, Ripamonti C, Casuccio A et al. Comparison of
octreotide and hyoscine butylbromide in controlling gastrointestinal symptoms due to malignant inoperable bowel
obstruction. Support Care Cancer 2000; 8: 188–91.
94. Ripamonti CI, Easson AM, Gerdes H. Management of malignant bowel obstruction. Eur J Cancer 2008; 44: 1105–15.
95. Currow DC, Coughlan M, Fardell B et al. Use of ondansetron
in palliative medicine. J Pain Symptom Manage 1997; 13:
302–7.
96. Perez EA, Hesketh P, Sandbach J et al. Comparison of singledose oral granisetron versus intravenous ondansetron in the
prevention of nausea and vomiting induced by moderately
emetogenic chemotherapy: a multicenter, double-blind,
randomized parallel study. J Clin Oncol 1998; 16: 754–60.
97. Warr DG, Hesketh PJ, Gralla RJ et al. Efficacy and tolerability of aprepitant for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced
nausea and vomiting in patients with breast cancer after
moderately emetogenic chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol 2005; 23:
2822–30.
98. Roila F, Hesketh PJ, Herrstedt J. Prevention of chemotherapyand radiotherapy-induced emesis: results of the 2004 Perugia
International Antiemetic Consensus Conference. Ann Oncol
2006; 17: 20–8.

99. Sykes NP. The relationship between opioid use and laxative
use in terminally ill cancer patients. Palliat Med 1998; 12:
375–82.
100. Lewis SJ, Heaton KW. Stool form scale as a useful guide to
intestinal transit time. Scand J Gastroenterol 1997; 32: 920–4.
101. Hawley PH, Byeon JJ. A comparison of sennosides-based
bowel protocols with and without docusate in hospitalized
patients with cancer. J Palliat Med 2008; 11: 575–81.
102. Mancini IL, Hanson J, Neumann CM et al. Opioid type and
other clinical predictors of laxative dose in advanced cancer
patients: a retrospective study. J Palliat Med 2000; 3: 49–56.
103. Wirz S, Klaschik E. Management of constipation in palliative
care patients undergoing opioid therapy: is polyethylene
glycol an option? Am J Hosp Palliat Care 2005; 22: 375–81.
104. McNicol ED, Boyce D, Schumann R et al. Mu-opioid antagonists
for opioid-induced bowel dysfunction. Cochrane Database
Syst Rev 2008; CD006332. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006332.
pub2
105. Portenoy RK, Thomas J, Moehl Boatwright ML et al. Subcutaneous methylnaltrexone for the treatment of opioid-induced
constipation in patients with advanced illness: a doubleblind, randomized, parallel group, dose-ranging study. J Pain
Symptom Manage 2008; 35: 458–68.
106. Lee L, Headland C. Administration of as required subcutaneous medications by lay carers: developing a procedure and
leaflet. Int J Palliat Nurs 2003; 9: 142–9.
107. Brenneis C, Michaud M, Bruera E et al. Local toxicity during
the subcutaneous infusion of narcotics (SCIN). A prospective
study. Cancer Nurs 1987; 10: 172–6.
108. Reymond L, Charles MA, Bowman J et al. The effect of dexamethasone on the longevity of syringe driver subcutaneous
sites in palliative care patients. Med J Aust 2003; 178: 486–9.
109. de Graeff A, Dean M. Palliative sedation therapy in the last
weeks of life: a literature review and recommendations for
standards. J Palliat Med 2007; 10: 67–85.
110. Rousseau P. Palliative sedation in the management of refractory
symptoms. J Support Oncol 2004; 2: 181–6.
111. Hudson PL, Kristjanson LJ, Ashby M et al. Desire for
hastened death in patients with advanced disease and the
evidence base of clinical guidelines: a systematic review.
Palliat Med 2006; 20: 693–701.
112. Hudson PL, Schofield P, Kelly B et al. Responding to desire
to die statements from patients with advanced disease: recommendations for health professionals. Palliat Med 2006; 20:
703–10.
113. Materstvedt LJ, Clark D, Ellershaw J et al. Euthanasia and
physician-assisted suicide: a view from an EAPC Ethics Task
Force. Palliat Med 2003; 17: 97–101, discussion 102–79.
114. Hurst SA, Mauron A. The ethics of palliative care and euthanasia: exploring common values. Palliat Med 2006; 20:
107–12.
115. Emanuel EJ, Fairclough DL, Emanuel LL. Attitudes and
desires related to euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide
among terminally ill patients and their caregivers. JAMA
2000; 284: 2460–8.

21
1
Psycho-oncology and Communication
Darius Razavi and Alain Ronson

stressors include critical decisions, errors yielding important
consequences, breaking bad news, numerous therapeutic
failures, administration of treatments with serious side
effects, contacts with mutilated/disfigured patients, emotionally loaded relationships, and death of the patients.
Many of these stressors imply communication with patients,
relatives, and colleagues. They may lead to the development of burnout, which may influence quality of care,
occupational life, and/or institutional functioning. Interventions and strategies have been proposed to help physicians to deal with cancer care: support groups and training
opportunities. Communication skills training programs are
probably the best cost-effective ways of reducing stress in
cancer care and of improving patient satisfaction with care.
These issues will be addressed in the “Communication”
section of this chapter.
It should be recalled that advances in the psychooncology and communication fields remain dependent on
progress in psychology, psychiatry, and oncology. In addition, there are numerous areas and method of research in
these fields and that a large volume of published work is
available. This chapter will address only some of the core
psychological, psychopathological, and communication
issues directly related to the oncological practice. This
chapter will include some psychobiological considerations,
which may be in close interdependence with some of the
issues discussed.

INTRODUCTION
It is now widely accepted that cancer and its treatments
constitute a stress factor imposed to cancer patients and
their relatives to a significant extent, leading to adjustment
efforts (or coping) and possibly psychopathological disturbances. There is a remarkable heterogeneity in patients’
responses to these stress factors. A prevalence of psychopathological disturbances in cancer patients has been
reported in many studies. In 1983, the Psychosocial
Collaborative Oncology Group observed a prevalence rate
of 47% of psychiatric disorders in a cohort of cancer patients
(inpatient and outpatient populations of three cancer
centers) (1). Most importantly, this rate was approximately
twice that reported for psychiatrics disorders in medical
patients, and three times the modal estimate for the general
population reported in the literature. As a diagnostic category, adjustment disorders accounted for 68% of all diagnoses. Other diagnoses were major affective disorders (13%),
organic mental disorders (8%), personality disorders (7%),
and anxiety disorders (4%). Most patients with psychopathological disturbances have depression or anxiety as the
principal symptom. Most of these conditions are treatable
disorders. It should be recalled at this level that cancer
patients have an increased risk of suicide compared with
the risk found in the general population, particularly during
the first year after diagnosis. Therefore, the assumption that
emotional distress, one of the most frequent expressions of
a difficulty to cope or a psychopathological disturbance, is
just a foreseeable and ordinary “reaction” to cancer has to
be reconsidered. Finally, cancer affects not only the patients,
but also their relatives to a significant extent. The important
prevalence of psychological problems and psychopathological disturbances that have been reported in oncology underlines the need for psychological and psychopharmacological
interventions designed specifically for cancer patients and
their significant others. Preserving the quality of life of the
patients and their families as much as possible has become
a major goal in cancer care. These issues will be addressed
in the “Psycho-oncology” section of this chapter.
It is now widely recognized that the way doctors
communicate with their patients affects not only the adequacy of the clinical interview and the detection of psychological disturbance, but also patients’ compliance and
satisfaction with care. The failure to identify many of the
patients’ problems seems mostly related to insufficient
psycho-oncological knowledge and deficient communication skills among health professionals who care for these
patients and their families. Moreover, it is often recognized
that caring for cancer patients is highly stressful, and the

PSYCHO-ONCOLOGY
Acute Stress Reactions
Cancer patients are often facing sustained stressful situations. Patients may experience also periods of extreme
stress. Cancer and its treatment may thus be considered as
chronic stressors. Hospitalization, illness, surgical, and
nonsurgical procedures are stressful to all patients. Pain,
disability, or death anticipation challenges human adjustment. Some stressors, such as marital, job difficulties, or
financial problems, are not related to medical problems.
Many significant stressors related or not related to cancer
may generate acute stress reactions. Acute responses to the
stressors comprise fear responses along with adjustment
effort to novelties and losses. Acute stress reactions usually
subside within hours or days. Symptoms of acute stress
reactions usually appear within minutes of the impact of
the stressful events (cancer diagnosis for example) and
disappear within two or three days: inattention, daze,
numbness, and inability to understand what is happening
are frequent during the first hours, followed by either
371

372

Section III: Supportive Aspects

withdrawal, agitation, fear, or anxiety. These responses
facilitate support recruitment, sharing emotions, and
appraisal of cancer-related events and their consequences.
Biological stress responses are unconditioned protective responses. The stress response includes an arousal of
the autonomic system and an activation of the hypothalamic–
pituitary–adrenal (HPA) axis. The main mediators of the
stress responses are catecholamines and glucocorticoids,
respectively. This neuroendocrine response is essential for
the maintenance of stability under stress. Homeostasis is
defined by narrow variations of vital biological parameters
during an acute stress, and allostasis refers to maintaining
stability throughout a chronic stress. Allostatic load is
defined as the cost inflicted to the organism (brain and
body) during chronic stress (2). Allostatic load has been
linked with structural and functional brain changes: in particular, neuronal growth and survival as well as dendritic
branching may be altered in the hippocampus. These
changes may explain numerous cognitive and emotional
manifestations of cancer patients. Glucocorticoids may be
chronically in excess because of reduced feedback signals
from an altered hippocampus. The damage of the hippocampus—which results from chronic exposure to stress
hormones—maintain a state of HPA axis hyperactivity. The
production of glucocorticoids may also be decreased,
resulting in a failure to restrain inflammatory responses
(HPA axis and immune system are linked by numerous
functional relationship) (3). The concept of allostatic load
may be useful to study the potential consequences of
cancer and treatment-related stress on psychological outcomes. The concept of allostatic load may also be useful
to study the potential consequences of psychological
stress on cancer disease outcomes; overproduction of
pro-inflammatory cytokines may have, for example, an
impact on tumor biology and cancer course and prognosis (4). A recent review of published results indicates that
stress-related psychosocial factors are associated with
poorer survival and higher mortality (5). Allostatic load
may also be linked with several other outcomes that can
significantly worsen the burden of cancer and its treatment,
for example, cardiovascular and metabolic damages, bone
demineralization, etc.

Adjustment Disorders
Cancer and its treatments are stressful life events, causing
a significant change in the lifestyle leading to continued
unpleasant circumstances, which may result in an adjustment disorder. Adjustment disorders are thought to arise
as a direct consequence of stressors, trauma, and losses
associated with the diagnosis and the treatment. Adjustment disorders should be differentiated from acute stress
reactions, which are transient disorders of significant severity. Adjustment refers to efforts and processes aimed at
managing demands of stressors. It involves the use of
internal or external resources and the use of coping and
problem-solving strategies. It involves also changes in
established patterns of functioning, world views, and coping methods. Adjustment disorders are states of subjective
distress and emotional disturbance interfering with social
functioning and performance. They appear usually within
one month of the occurrence of a stressful event and their
duration does not usually exceed six months. Manifestations

include depression, anxiety, and feelings of inability to
cope, loss of control, and low self-esteem. A diagnosis of
adjustment disorder should be considered in patients who
have symptoms of anxiety or depression, who are experiencing a major psychosocial stressor and who do not meet
the criteria for an anxiety disorder, a depressive disorder
or a post-traumatic stress disorder.
Vulnerability factors are unfortunately not available.
Even if it has not been clearly demonstrated, patients with
a previous history of such a disorder or a complicated
prolonged psychological reaction to stressors, trauma, and
losses may be at increased risk for developing these disorders. Inherited and acquired alterations of the HPA axis
can determine how the individual responds to stressors
during adult life: in particular, stressors occurring early in
life have a profound effect on the HPA axis. Patients suffering from preexisting HPA axis hyperactivity might be
more vulnerable to the development of emotional disturbances in the context of cancer (6), a finding that, if
confirmed, would give strong support—through the identification of predictive factors—for the preventive use of
psychological or pharmacological interventions in patients
at increased risk for psychological morbidity.

Depressive Disorders
The clinical presentation of depressive disorders includes
psychological and somatic symptoms: dysphoric and diurnal mood changes, feelings of hopelessness and helplessness, suicidal ideation, guilt, poor concentration, and rarely,
delusional thoughts. Somatic symptoms like constipation,
insomnia, pain, fatigue, anorexia, and psychomotor retardation or agitation are not reliable signs in cancer patients,
since they can be caused by cancer or its treatment. Depression may cause amplification of physical symptoms,
increased functional impairment and poor treatment adherence. Patients with a family or a personal history of depression are certainly at greater risk of developing a depression
during the course of cancer. As in the general population,
alcohol abuse is also a risk factor for depression, a fact that
is also illustrated by the higher incidence of depression in
patients with head and neck cancer. Patients with pancreatic cancer also have a higher depression (7); the cause for
this phenomenon is still unknown, but a paraneoplastic
syndrome is suspected. Other common causes for the
development of depressive symptoms in cancer patients
include chronic unrelieved pain, medication (corticosteroids, vincristine, interferon, cimetidine, and others), metabolic alterations (like hypercalcemia), or damage to the
central nervous system by cancer lesions.
The differential diagnosis of depression includes
sadness, adjustment disorders with depressed mood,
grief, and delirious states with depressed affect. If the
psychological symptoms described above are present for
at least two weeks and the cognitive state of the patient
is not altered, then the diagnosis of depression is likely
and a treatment should be considered. It may sometimes
be very difficult to diagnose depression in cachectic cancer patients with advanced disease, and confirmation of
the diagnosis by a psychiatrist may become necessary.
The diagnostic criteria for depression overlap frequently
with anxiety disorders and there is moreover a frequent
anxiety and depression comorbidity. Certain criteria have

Chapter 21:

been suggested to be of use for diagnosing major depressive
syndromes in medical patients (8). Somatic items of usual
criteria, such as problems with appetite and sleep, fatigue,
and complaints about lessened concentration, could be
replaced by psychological items such as fearfulness or
depressed appearance, social withdrawal or decreased talkativeness, self pity, pessimism, etc.
Depressive syndromes are heterogeneous and their
etiologies diverse. Genetic predispositions are thought to
interact with environmental risk factors such as stressful
life events. The pathogenesis of depression includes beside
abnormal cognitive styles, abnormal activity of the HPA
axis, alterations in neurotrophic signaling, abnormal hippocampal neurogenesis. There are moreover numerous
potential bidirectional relationships between cancer and
depression. Stress response dysregulation (in particular
glucocorticoids), frequently found in the context of depression, may, in theory, negatively influence the course and
prognosis of cancer through several mechanisms: shunting
of glucose availability in favor of cancer cells, promotion
of oncogene expression, impaired immunological surveillance (9). Although such influences may be considered in
theory, it should be recalled that the effect size of these
potential influences should be carefully studied.

Anxiety Disorders
Anxiety may have several different meanings and may
apply to different thought, feelings, and behaviors. Anxiety
alerts to changes and involves the anticipation of future
danger. Anxiety is thus usually useful to avoid potential
danger and to prepare for further coping and action. A
reasonable degree of anxiety can be adaptative. Often, psychological response systems may become dysregulated
(over- or underactive), leading to an incapacity to habituate
to repeated stressors or to a defective extinction of stress
responses after end of threat (a suggested mechanism of
post-traumatic stress disorder). Anxiety may therefore
grow progressively, become extreme, and interfere with
coping, and then becomes a disorder. Anxiety can manifest
in different forms: prolonged worries, intrusive thoughts,
irrational fears, panic, phobia, obsession, compulsion, etc.
The onset of anxiety disorders may precede the cancer
diagnosis or may be reactivated by the stressors associated
with cancer. Anxiety disorders are frequently met in oncology, and are associated with numerous and intense cancer
worries and with functioning impairment.
Postchemotherapy physical discomfort (nausea and
vomiting) is often associated with anxiety. During the
course of chemotherapy, an important percentage of
patients become therefore sensitized to treatment, reporting anxiety, depression, nausea, and fatigue in anticipation
of chemotherapy. Symptoms can be conditioned: patients
may develop conditioned symptoms responses to clinic
cues as a result of the repeated pairing of the clinic environment (conditioned stimulus) with infusions of chemotherapy (unconditioned response) (10). It should be recalled
that anxiety can also be a symptom of an underlying medical conditions or a substance induced symptom (corticoids
for example).
In the recent years, a growing body of literature has
supported the notion that a diagnosis of cancer or cancer
recurrence represents a traumatic event, potentially leading

Psycho-oncology and Communication

373

to the development of post-traumatic stress disorders.
Cancer-related events are often of sudden onset and frequently unexpected. They are also associated with physical
discomfort and a sense of helplessness. Post-traumatic
stress disorder occurs as a delayed or protracted response
to an extremely stressful event or situation. Typical symptoms include episodes of repeated reliving of the trauma
in intrusive memories, nightmares, and avoidance of activities and situations reminiscent of the trauma or its causes.
There is thus commonly fear and avoidance of what
reminds the original trauma. Moreover, the patient may
also avoid situations to which he or she attributes the
stressful event. There may be acute outbursts of fear, panic,
or aggression. Anxiety and depression are also common.
Finally, emotional numbing and autonomic hyperactivity
are core components of the clinical picture of post-traumatic
stress disorder (PTSD). Studies have confirmed the
existence of a full-blown PTSD in up to 20% of cancer
patients (11).
Genetic variations may predispose an individual to
anxiety disorders (for example, serotonin transporter gene
variations may lead to low serotonin levels). Neural circuits and stress hormones are implicated in the modulation
of fear memory strength and in the development of anxiety
disorders. Neural circuits that modulate fear and anxiety
have been identified, and their dysfunctions are thought
to underline anxiety disorders. Patients with anxiety disorders are showing greater activity than matched controls
in the amygdala and insula: these structures are associated
with exaggerated fear responses. Patients with PTSD are
showing hypoactivation in the dorsal and the rostral anterior cingulate cortex and the ventromedial prefrontal cortex
(12): these structures are considered to play a role in the
regulation of emotions.

Sickness Behavior
Cancers, infections, and inflammatory processes can induce
many symptoms called “sickness behavior.” There are
many bidirectional relations among brain, immune, and
endocrine functions that may explain the development of
a “sickness behavior”: anhedonia, anxiety, irritability, anergia, anorexia, fatigue, cognitive disturbances, and distress
like symptoms. The physiological processes underlying the
development of these symptoms include different neuroimmune-endocrine mechanisms. It has been suggested that
the activation of the pro-inflammatory cytokine system in
cancer patients is associated with this syndrome (13). The
effect of pro-inflammatory cytokines on the central nervous
system is one of the mechanism underlying the development of sickness symptoms in patients with infection and
cancer or in patients treated with radio-, chemo-, and
immunotherapy. Thus, patients have to cope with these
symptoms (14).
Patients with subclinical symptoms, such as sadness,
pessimistic thoughts, and sleep disturbances, prior to initiating cytokine treatment are more likely to become clinically depressed during the course of the cytokine therapy
(15). The “sickness behavior” involves several clinical clusters probably reflecting separate underlying pathways, as
suggested by differential responses of psychological and
cognitive disturbances, pain, fatigue, and anorexia to an
antidepressant drug (paroxetine) (16). These data suggest

374

Section III: Supportive Aspects

that psychological pretreatment characteristics—for example,
depressive symptoms—may predict the side effect profile
associated with some cancer treatments.

Psychological Interventions
The feasibility and effectiveness of using psychological and
psychopharmacological interventions for preventing psychological problems and psychopathological disturbances
in cancer patients should be considered at each phase of
the course of the illness. There is some evidence that
psychological and psychopharmacological interventions
may prevent and allow a better management of adverse
symptoms associated with cancer and its treatment (17).
For example, chemotherapy may be considered as a severe
stressor, and it could be useful to assess psychological and
pharmacological interventions designed to reduce, retard,
or prevent these consequences.
Specific assessment methods for the screening of psychological problems and psychological disturbances in
oncology are available. Screening may identify patients
who could be helped with psychological or psychopharmacological interventions. In addition, early recognition of
these conditions among family members and caregivers
improve the quality of care. The fact that effective methods
of treatment are available for several psychological problems and psychopathological disturbances associated with
cancer is another argument that justifies the implementation of a screening procedure. Are specific and sensitive
screening methods available at a reasonable cost? The performance of screening methods has been widely studied.
Most of the methods tested have been self-administered
questionnaires because standardized interviews require
time and training: the Hospital Anxiety and Depression
Scale (18) and the Distress Thermometer (19) are the most
frequently used screening methods. These screening instruments generally take less than 15 minutes to complete and
have proven to be quite acceptable to most patients. At
this point, most of the screening efforts have been focused
on anxiety, depression, and psychological distress, which
are the most frequent symptoms of adjustment disorders
and anxiety, and depressive disorders associated with the
diagnosis of cancer and its treatment and evolution. Studies that assess the performance of the screening methods
report a sensitivity and specificity of around 75%.
It is important to recall that a precise and comprehensive assessment of the psychological problems and
psychopathological disturbances and a good understanding of the social situation are of utmost importance before
any psychological or psychopharmacological intervention.
An in-depth interview allows to establish a diagnosis of
psychological disturbance and to clarify past and present
problems. A careful assessment of the symptoms of
psychopathological disturbances described above is needed.
The fact that psychopathological disturbances in cancer
patients remain underdiagnosed is often related to the physician’s fear to ask direct questions about the feelings of
their patients: patients do not feel such questions to be
stressful as long as they are posed in an emphatic way and
most patients feel relief when talking about their feelings.
All psychological interventions are dealing with the
following question: what can be done to help the cancer
patient cope? Despite the multiplicity of approaches and

the objectives they openly declare (i.e., to reduce psychological morbidity, enhance quality of life, improve communication, provide information, and teach skills), their
purpose can be summarized as an optimization of the
patient’s adaptation to the consequences of the disease.
Psychological interventions have different aims: prevention, restoration, and support. First, preventive interventions are designed to avoid the development of predictable
psychological problems or psychopathological disturbances. Second, restorative interventions refer to actions
used to control or eliminate residual psychological problems or psychopathological disturbances. Third, supportive
interventions are planned to lessen the number and the
amplitude of problems and disturbances. Psychological
interventions are often multidisciplinary, with a variety of
content. The type of psychological intervention ranges
from information and education to more sophisticated support programs including directive (behavioral or cognitive)
therapies or nondirective (dynamic) therapies. These interventions may be combined with the prescription of
psychopharmacological interventions. Psychological interventions may thus range from the information and
support provided by physicians or nurses to the use of
techniques performed by well-trained psychologists and
psychiatrists. Psychological interventions can be divided
schematically according not only to their degree of directivity (non-directive vs. directive) but also to their form
(individual, family, or group). There is much evidence
that most of these interventions are effective but that their
effects are frequently limited (effect of small or medium
size) (20).
Directive techniques include mainly behavioral and
cognitive therapies. Behavioral therapies are based on conditioning theories. They involve precise observation of
behavior and use directive methods to achieve determined
goals. Their results can be observed directly by the disappearance or persistence of the symptom. The positive
effects of the behavioral techniques in treating adverse
reactions are rather well documented by controlled studies.
These techniques are especially effective for anticipatory
nausea and vomiting related to cancer chemotherapy. They
have been proposed for treating anxiety and depression and
for treating or controlling psychological reactions secondary
to painful procedures and cancer pain and adverse reactions to treatments (21). Cognitive therapy deals with present problems and tries to identify maladaptive thoughts,
irrational beliefs, and inner factors that are responsible for
psychological problems or psychopathological disturbances.
Once identified, these thoughts are confronted with reason
and reality. Self-monitoring automatic thoughts, restructuring,
and teaching coping strategies are commonly used with
cancer patients.
Nondirective techniques include information, counseling, and supportive or dynamic psychotherapy. Providing information is the first step in helping patients cope
with cancer. Information on diagnosis, prognosis, treatments, and long-term sequels is given by physicians in the
first line, but can be further delivered by other medical
staff members and completed by members of self-help
associations. Information can be provided to the patient
alone or to the patient in the presence of family members,
or even to family members apart from the patient. A tailored and step-by-step information is often needed as the

Chapter 21:

perception of information by the patient or his family may
be distorted by psychological factors, especially in the case
of negative information. Counseling is a special form of
help performed by trained persons whose purpose is to
listen to the patients, help them express and understand
their feelings about cancer, and encourage them to cope
with their current situation. This technique is an attempt
to provide cancer patients with first-line support and continuity when no other more-specialized help is available.
Two models of psychotherapy are used with the cancer
patient: supportive and dynamic. These two types of interventions need the development of a trusting relationship
that allows free communication. Supportive psychotherapy
is aimed at restoring or maintaining at least the status quo
in crisis: patients’ sense of safety, self-esteem, adaptative
defenses, and hope are therefore supported. Supportive
psychotherapy helps the patient to tolerate and to regulate
a wider range of affects and to limit impulsivity and
destructiveness (self or other). It supports reality testing
and challenges unrealistic ideas. Dynamic psychotherapy,
based on psychoanalytic or psychodynamic models, is useful when patients wish to explore further their reactions
and feelings and to promote personality development.

Psychopharmacological Interventions
Clinical experience supports the usefulness of psychotropic
medications in oncology. The efficacy of some psychotropic
medications have been tested: mianserine (22), fluoxetine,
and methylphenidate (23) have been tested for treating
depression, and alprazolam (24) and lorazepam (25) have
been tested for treating phobic nausea and vomiting related
to chemotherapy. A double-blind, placebo-controlled study
has shown that patients receiving fluoxetine reported significantly less psychological distress at the end of the study
than patients receiving the placebo (26). In another doubleblind, placebo-controlled trial (27), advanced cancer patients
were randomly assigned to receive fluoxetine or placebo
for 12 weeks. The antidepressant induced significant
improvement of quality of life and reduction of depressive
symptoms.
Psychotropic medications are generally well tolerated. Drug interactions and altered pharmacokinetics due
to the intake of other medications are possible. Clinicians
should be careful to possible pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions. In a sample of breast cancer
patients of known cytochrome P450 2D6 genotype, for
example, the antidepressant paroxetine was shown to
decrease plasma concentrations of an active tamoxifen
metabolite. Among commonly prescribed antidepressants,
paroxetine, fluvoxamine, and fluoxetine are potent inhibitors of various cytochrome P450 isoenzymes, while the
inhibitory potential of sertraline and citalopram is said to
be minimal and not relevant, respectively (28). Venlafaxine
and mirtazapine are also weak inhibitors and may, therefore, be used safely with regard to drug interactions (29).
Moreover, one should continue to pay close attention
to the unresolved question of lowered or increased cancer
risk potentially associated with the use of antidepressants.
It can be concluded from the available body of preclinical
drug trial and epidemiologic studies that an association
between antidepressant use and risk of cancer promotion
could neither be excluded nor be established. Further studies

Psycho-oncology and Communication

375

specifically addressing this question are strongly needed
given the widespread use of antidepressant. The prescription of antidepressants for the treatment of mood and
anxiety disorders should be recommended in the meanwhile, since their benefits in reducing level of distress, risk
of suicide, and improving quality of life probably exceed
the risk of cancer promotion. However, ongoing uncertainties should encourage restraint in the systematic preventive
use of psychotropic drugs.

COMMUNICATION
Communication Problems
Physicians are facing everyday communication problems
with patients and their relatives: breaking bad news (diagnosis, prognosis, and imminent death), uncontrolled
chronic pain, compliance problems, distress, informed consent, euthanasia request, and suicidal ideation. The way to
cope with these problems are influenced by physicians’
attitudes and self-efficacy about communication, such as
fear of death, fear of the unknown, fear of being unable to
respond to patients questions, and fear of reactivating
patients’ distress. Frequently, physicians find hard to communicate appropriately with patients, or to do so without
taking too much time. They frequently express a need for
communication strategy guidelines to be more patientcentered. Although different definitions are available (30),
patient-centeredness can be defined as physicians’ behaviors that enable the patient to express his or her perspective
on illness and treatment and health-related behavior, his
or her symptoms, concerns, ideas, and expectations.
Good communication with a cancer patient is essential in facilitating his or her best possible adjustment. For
instance, it enables the patient to anticipate problems,
assists rehabilitation, and avoids unnecessary distress (31).
For some patients, good communication provides an
opportunity to prepare for death, which is sometimes more
bearable than a future that is uncertain. Some skills form
the basis for a good communication: it implies that physicians use facilitating behaviors (i.e., behaviors that aim to
elucidate the patient’s perspective on illness and treatment)
and avoid inhibiting or blocking behaviors (i.e., behaviors
that restrain the patient from expressing his or her view)
such as leading or multiple questions, premature information, or reassurance (32). There are three main types of
communication skills: evaluative (open and open directive
questions, assessing, checking, summarizing), informative
(step-by-step information giving), and supportive skills
(listening, acknowledging, reassurance giving, empathy,
educated guesses). Effective communication is achieved by
using appropriately evaluative, informative, and supportive skills. An appropriate combination and sequence of
these three different types of skills are useful for obtaining
a patient history, breaking bad news, conveying information about treatment, eliciting needs and concerns, reassuring
patients, and monitoring the adaptation of patients and
their relatives (33).
For assessing the patients’ problems, physicians may
use open questions, clarification, and checking. Effective
communication is facilitated by using open questions,
questions with a psychological focus, clarification of psychological aspects, screening questions, and educated
guesses (34). Conversely, communication is inhibited by

376

Section III: Supportive Aspects

closed questions, leading questions, and by focusing solely
on physical aspects. The avoidance of clarifying patients’
problems, concerns, and needs may lead to give information, advice, and reassurance prematurely, before the
patients’ problems concerns and needs have been fully
explored. Listening to patients is the only way to evaluate
their problems, concerns, needs, and personal resources.
Listening is a very difficult task. Listening is facilitated by
using techniques that encourage the patient to express
him/herself (calm attitude, silence, etc.). Listening requires
an empathic attitude, which makes possible to build confidence between the patient and his/her physician, and to
obtain information on the emotions and perceptions of the
patient. Assessment skills should be integrated into the
process of evaluating, for example, the patient’s need for
information. This process must include an assessment of
what the patient already knows and what she or he wishes
to know. A step-by-step information should be provided
with a step-by-step assessment of what has been understood. After the transmission of an information, these
assessments offer an opportunity to check whether the
information has been understood.
One of the core component of support is the attention
given to patients’ present and potential future problems,
concerns, and needs. Support is often offered without any
previous assessment of these problems, concerns, and
needs. Physicians are therefore experiencing difficulties to
identify their exact nature and extent and to feel and to
recognize their patients emotional reactions. Precise identification and assessment of the patient’s problems, concerns, and needs are essential and constitute the first phase
of an active support. It enables physicians to understand
patients’ feelings, and if possible, to anticipate their future
reactions: this cognitive understanding underlines the concept of empathy, which is conceptually different from sympathy, which is underlined by physicians’ emotional feeling
of patients emotions. This understanding may avoid the
development of patients’ consecutive distress, which is a
frequent consequence of a loss of control over poorly
assessed outside events: the physician-assisted reevaluation
of implications associated with reality often enables the
patient to regain control. Reassurance is another core component of support. Reassurances are interventions that
focus on, internal resources (for example on the patient’s
capacity to meet the challenges) or on external resources
(for example the possibility of responding to an experimental treatment). Other core components of support include
verbal and nonverbal strategies such as setting up the
interview and the relationship and the use of silence and
empathy.

Learning Communication Skills
Training programs are being developed to improve physicians’ communication skills. Cognitive (e.g., theoretical
information), experiential (e.g., case-history discussions),
behavioral (e.g., role-playing exercises) training techniques are used to teach the essential skills of good communication. Training can range from one-day courses to
longer curricula, which require mild to intensive involvement of participants. Most are residential workshops that
take place during the weekend and are increasingly organized away from the working environment. There may

be other potential positive effects of these trainings for
physicians (attitudes, quality of care, coping with stress,
professional growth) and for patients (satisfaction with
care, detection of their needs, compliance with treatment,
quality of life).
Experiential techniques include case-history discussions, staff observations, and supervisions. During a
training session, case-history discussions give the physicians the opportunity to present and analyze practical
situations in all their complexity. The benefits of this
technique are outlining the personal strategies in communication; heightening the self-awareness of physicians,
clarifying the areas to be explored to determine the
nature and the extent of the patients’ problems; and
finally, it also offers opportunities for exchanging information with colleagues about psychological aspects,
which is often lacking in clinical practice. To be effective,
this technique has to be used in small group sessions to
stimulate discussion.
Behavioral techniques include role-playing exercises, patient interviews under observation, and walking
rounds. Role-play has been widely used for teaching communication skills. It consists of asking participants during
a training session to play different roles (patient, family,
nurse, physician, etc.) and then to discuss the simulate
interview. Identification with roles enables participants to
observe and analyze feelings, attitudes, perceptions, and
behaviors induced by clinical practice. It also helps in
experimenting with communication strategies, like setting
up the interview, getting the patient talk, controlling an
interview, using assessment questions before informing,
and reassuring. Role-playing is perhaps one of the most
formative techniques, but trainers must use the tool carefully, with clear instructions in the secure context of small
groups. When scripts are proposed, they should be as
close as possible to clinical practice and realistic situations. The use of audio-visual techniques such as videotaped role-playing and video- or audio-taped patient
interviews are useful.
In the last two decades, several communication
skills training programs have been tested for their efficacy
(35–38). In these studies, the main aim of the training
programs was to promote the knowledge and the use of
communication skills that are able to promote better
patient care. Results of these studies have allowed to
draw some conclusions as regards training techniques
and their effects. Results of these studies confirm the
usefulness of communication skills training programs. As
it could have been expected, a dose-effect of training on
some communication skills learned was found. To be
effective, training should include learner-centered, skillsfocused, and practice-oriented techniques, be organized
in small group (no more than six), and be long enough
(at least 20 hours) (39). Training programs should include
consolidation sessions to ensure transfer of learned skills
to clinical practice (40): a key challenge is to help physicians apply what they have learned in their clinical practice. Consolidation workshops are therefore useful.
Distance-learning approach may be also used for individual feedback of audiotape material. Finally, two-way
radios are being developed that will enable health care
professionals to be supervised during their live interviews
with patients or relatives.

Chapter 21:

CONCLUSIONS
Because of the recognition of the high prevalence of psychological problems and psychopathological disturbances
associated with cancer and its treatments, numerous programs are available to prevent and alleviate these disturbances. The respective indications of psychological
interventions, psychotropic medications, or both, are based
on clinical experience and controlled prospective studies.
Research is still needed to improve interventions efficacy.
The first step should be to recognize the respective usefulness of single psychological or pharmacological intervention in specific situations along with the best supportive
care of the patients. The second step should be to compare
different interventions for their efficacy, cost, and feasibility in a cancer setting. The third step should be to test for
the possible superior effectiveness of combinations (e.g.,
nondirective technique with directive technique, individual
psychological support with family support, psychological
support with psychotropic medication).
To improve the psychological care of cancer patients,
physicians must be trained in basic interviewing, assessment, and counseling skills. All physicians should be able
to detect and clarify key verbal and nonverbal cues that
patients and relatives express (e.g., concerns, problems,
and needs), to control the interview and maintain its focus,
to acquire precision in assessment strategies (e.g., dates,
names, symptom intensity), and to explore emotionally
loaded concerns (e.g., wish to die, prognosis, death) in a
manner that is helpful and not too distressing or painful.
Communication skills training programs designed for physicians dealing regularly with cancer patients and their
significant others should be available in all health care
settings devoted to cancer care. Consolidation training programs should be available to stimulate the implementation
of learned skills. A special effort should also be devoted
to help physicians to acquire complementary skills to
respond more adequately to the complex problems encountered in oncology. These trainings should prepare physicians
to cope with the complexities of difficult clinical situations
such as breaking bad news and discussing ethical dilemmas
(e.g., informed consent, euthanasia, “do-not resuscitate”
orders, deciding curative and palliative treatments).

REFERENCES
1. Derogatis LR, Morrow GR, Fetting J, et al. The prevalence of
psychiatric disorders among cancer patients. JAMA 1983; 249:
751–7.
2. McEwen BS. The neurobiology of stress: from serendipity to
clinical relevance. Brain Res 2000; 886: 172–89.
3. Miller AH, Ancoli-Israel S, Bower JE, et al. Neuroendocrineimmune mechanisms of behavioral comorbidities in patients
with cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 971–82.
4. Gidron Y, Ronson A. Psychosocial factors, biological mediators, and cancer prognosis: a new look at an old story. Curr
Opin Oncol 2008; 20: 386–92.
5. Chida Y, Hamer M, Wardle J, et al. Do stress-related psychosocial factors contribute to cancer incidence and survival? Nat
Clin Pract Oncol 2008; 5: 466–75.
6. Capuron L, Raison CL, Musselman DL, et al. Association of
exaggerated HPA axis response to the initial injection of
interferon-alpha with development of depression during
interferon-alpha therapy. Am J Psychiatry 2003; 160: 1342–5.

Psycho-oncology and Communication

377

7. Passik SD, Roth AJ. Anxiety symptoms and panic attacks
preceding pancreatic cancer diagnosis. Psychooncology 1999;
8: 268–72.
8. Endicott J. Measurement of depression in patients with cancer.
Cancer 1984; 53(10 Suppl): 2243–9.
9. Spiegel D, Giese-Davis J. Depression and cancer: mechanisms
and disease progression. Biol Psychiatry 2003; 54: 269–82.
10. Bovbjerg DH, Montgomery GH, Raptis G. Evidence for
classically conditioned fatigue responses in patients receiving
chemotherapy treatment for breast cancer. J Behav Med 2005;
28: 231–7.
11. Gurevich M, Devins GM, Rodin GM, et al. Stress response
syndromes and cancer: conceptual and assessment issues.
Psychosomatics 2002; 43: 259–81.
12. Etkin A, Wager TD. Functional neuroimaging of anxiety: a
meta-analysis of emotional processing in PTSD, social anxiety
disorder, and specific phobia. Am J Psychiatry 2007; 164:
1476–88.
13. Raison CL, Miller AH. Depression in cancer: new developments regarding diagnosis and treatment. Biol Psychiatry
2003; 54: 283–94.
14. de Ridder D, Geenen R, Kuijer R, et al. Psychological adjustment to chronic disease. Lancet 2008; 372: 246–55.
15. Capuron L, Ravaud A, Miller AH, et al. Baseline mood and
psychosocial characteristics of patients developing depressive
symptoms during interleukin-2 and/or interferon-alpha
cancer therapy. Brain Behav Immun 2004; 18: 205–13.
16. Capuron L, Gumnick JF, Musselman DL, et al. Neurobehavioral
effects of interferon-alpha in cancer patients: phenomenology
and paroxetine responsiveness of symptom dimensions.
Neuropsychopharmacology 2002; 26: 643–52.
17. Razavi D, Delvaux N, Farvacques C, et al. Prevention of adjustment disorders and anticipatory nausea secondary to adjuvant
chemotherapy: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study assessing the usefulness of alprazolam. J Clin Oncol 1993; 11:
1384–90.
18. Razavi D, Delvaux N, Farvacques C, et al. Screening for
adjustment disorders and major depressive disorders in cancer in-patients. Br J Psychiatry 1990; 156: 79–83.
19. Mitchell AJ. Pooled results from 38 analyses of the accuracy
of distress thermometer and other ultra-short methods of
detecting cancer-related mood disorders. J Clin Oncol 2007;
25: 4670–81.
20. Jacobsen PB, Jim HS. Psychosocial interventions for anxiety
and depression in adult cancer patients: Achievements and
challenges. CA Cancer J Clin 2008; 58: 214–30.
21. Redd WH, Montgomery GH, et al. . Behavioral intervention
for cancer treatment side effects. J Natl Cancer Inst 2001; 93:
810–23.
22. van Heeringen K, Zivkov M. Pharmacological treatment of
depression in cancer patients. A placebo-controlled study of
mianserin. Br J Psychiatry 1996; 169: 440–3.
23. Macleod AD. Methylphenidate in terminal depression. J Pain
Symptom Manage 1998; 16: 193–8.
24. Greenberg DB, Surman OS, Clarke J, et al. Alprazolam for
phobic nausea and vomiting related to cancer chemotherapy.
Cancer Treat Rep 1987; 71: 549–50.
25. Malik IA, Khan WA, Qazilbash M, et al. Clinical efficacy of
lorazepam in prophylaxis of anticipatory, acute, and delayed
nausea and vomiting induced by high doses of cisplatin. A
prospective randomized trial. Am J Clin Oncol 1995; 18:
170–5.
26. Razavi D, Allilaire JF, Smith M, et al. The effect of fluoxetine
on anxiety and depression symptoms in cancer patients. Acta
Psychiatr Scand 1996; 94: 205–10.
27. Fisch MJ, Loehrer PJ, Kristeller J, et al. Fluoxetine versus
placebo in advanced cancer outpatients: a double-blinded
trial of the Hoosier Oncology Group. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21:
1937–43.

378
28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

Section III: Supportive Aspects
Jin Y, Desta Z, Stearns V, et al. CYP2D6 genotype, antidepressant use, and tamoxifen metabolism during adjuvant breast
cancer treatment. J Natl Cancer Inst 2005; 97: 30–9.
Spina E, Scordo MG, D’Arrigo C. Metabolic drug interactions
with new psychotropic agents. Fundam Clin Pharmacol 2003;
17: 517–38.
Mead N, Bower P. Patient-centredness: a conceptual framework and review of the empirical literature. Soc Sci Med
2000; 51: 1087–110.
Lienard A, Merckaert I, Libert Y, et al. Factors that influence
cancer patients’ anxiety following a medical consultation:
impact of a communication skills training programme for
physicians. Ann Oncol 2006; 17: 1450–8.
Zandbelt LC, Smets EM, Oort FJ, et al. Patient participation
in the medical specialist encounter: does physicians’ patientcentred communication matter? Patient Educ Couns 2007; 65:
396–406.
Merckaert I, Libert Y, Delvaux N, et al. Factors that influence
physicians’ detection of distress in patients with cancer: can
a communication skills training program improve physicians’
detection? Cancer 2005; 104: 411–21.
Maguire P, Faulkner A, Booth K, et al. Helping cancer patients
disclose their concerns. Eur J Cancer 1996; 32A: 78–81.

35. Razavi D, Delvaux N, Marchal S, et al. The effects of a 24-h
psychological training program on attitudes, communication
skills and occupational stress in oncology: a randomised
study. Eur J Cancer 1993; 29A: 1858–63.
36. Maguire P, Booth K, Elliott C, et al. Helping health professionals involved in cancer care acquire key interviewing
skills--the impact of workshops. Eur J Cancer 1996; 32A:
1486–9.
37. Fallowfield L, Jenkins V, Farewell V, et al. Efficacy of a cancer research UK communication skills training model for
oncologists: a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2002; 359:
650–6.
38. Delvaux N, Razavi D, Marchal S, et al. Effects of a 105 hours
psychological training program on attitudes, communication
skills and occupational stress in oncology: a randomised
study. Br J Cancer 2004; 90: 106–14.
39. Merckaert I, Libert Y, Razavi D, et al. Communication skills
training in cancer care: where are we and where are we
going? Curr Opin Oncol 2005; 17: 319–30.
40. Razavi D, Merckaert I, Marchal S, et al. How to optimize
physicians’ communication skills in cancer care: results of a
randomized study assessing the usefulness of post training
consolidation workshops. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 3141–9.

22
1
Inherited Predisposition to Cancer:
Genetic Counseling and Clinical Management
Diana M. Eccles

not currently clinically useful but may become so when all
significant risk alleles have been identified and prospective
studies have confirmed their clinical validity. Finally,
increasing knowledge of the influence of inherited traits on
cancer biology and treatment outcomes will allow oncologists to tailor cancer treatments taking into account the
heritable factors.
This chapter explains the broad general concepts and
principles that are useful to help in assessing any cancer
patient who might have a genetic predisposition to cancer. Some more common genetic cancer predisposition syndromes are then described in a little more detail. These
have been selected, as they are sufficiently frequent that the
oncologists may come across them from time to time
during their regular clinical practice.

INTRODUCTION
Genetic predisposition to cancer has been recognized for
over a century. In the last few decades, the underlying
genetic basis for many of these striking familial cancer
clusters has been discovered. The revolution in molecular
genetic technology during this time has been instrumental
in understanding how and which genetic factors influence
cancer risks. Some 20% to 30% of patients presenting with
common malignancies like breast or colon cancer will have
a blood relative who has been diagnosed with the same
disease. High-penetrance, dominantly inherited cancer predisposition syndromes are important to recognize because
of the substantial risks of cancer especially at young ages.
However, as the genes that lead to cancer predisposition
are discovered, it is now apparent that less than 5% of
all breast or colon cancers arise predominantly because of
the inheritance of a single high-penetrance gene mutation
(Fig. 22.1). More recently, it has become clear that much
of the familial clustering of common cancers, and even
many cancers where there is no family history, arise because
of a combination of several genetic variants that are frequent in the population and that each increases the risk by
a fractional amount above the population’s average risk
(common, low penetrance alleles) (1–4). The information
emerging about these common genetic variants is relevant
to a much larger proportion of cancers although the individual absolute associated risks are quite small (5). However,
ultimately as more is learned about interactions between
this type of gene and the environment and tumor biology,
there may be future opportunities to target individuals
who might benefit from preventive strategies including
chemoprevention (6). These polymorphic genetic variants
clearly modify the risk of cancer for a carrier of a highpenetrance gene mutation (7), and variants that influence
long-term prognosis are now being identified (8).
The challenge for the immediate future is to understand how all these genetic variants interact and to develop
risk assessment models that take genes, environment, interactions, and outcomes into account. This will ultimately
enable individuals to receive targeted, rather than general,
advice to guide choices about surveillance, prevention, and
treatment of cancer. Cancer genetics clinical services focus
largely on risk assessment and management for individuals
likely to have highly penetrant genetic predisposition syndromes; the family history here is a useful guide to potential modifying factors within a family. Genetic testing is
aimed at clarifying future cancer risks for an individual and
their relatives. Genetic testing for low-penetrance alleles is

INHERITED PREDISPOSITION TO CANCER
The presence of one or more common genetic variant
might increase the risk of an individual developing cancer
by a similar magnitude to many of the known epidemiological risk factors (1.1–1.5 times the population average
risk). The cancer risk however does increase with each
additional risk allele, confirming the concept that familial
cancer clusters are often due to polygenic influences. In
contrast, cancers seen as a result of the highly penetrant
but much less-common cancer predisposition syndromes
due to single gene mutations are often diagnosed at unusually young ages, are associated with multiple primary
cancers in the same individual, and may have treatment
implications (see p.386–388). Recognition of a genetic contribution to cancer in the oncology clinic and specifically
recognition of the likelihood of an underlying high-risk
genetic syndrome will have substantial implication for the
wider family of that patient.

RARE MUTATIONS, HIGH PENETRANCE
Less than 5% of all cancers arise because of an inherited
mutation in a single gene that confers a high lifetime chance
that cancer will develop. This type of highly penetrant
gene mutation often gives rise to a striking clustering of
cancers amongst blood relatives including young onset, multiple primaries, and many affected relatives. Highly penetrant cancer predisposition genes have considerable clinical
implications for the individual, and their diagnosis and
management will be the focus of this chapter. Figure 22.2
379

380

Section III: Supportive Aspects

Ca breast @ 38
Highly penetrant
single gene
Rare mutations, low
penetrance
Common variants,
low penetrance

Ca breast @ 23

No family history

Ca breast @ 31

Ca lung @ 30

Figure 22.1 Breast cancer cases and estimated proportion of cases
due to genetic susceptibility alleles.

Rhabdomyosarcoma @ 2

shows a family history due to a mutation in the TP53 gene.
This was one of the earliest dominant cancer predisposition
genes in which the underlying gene defect was identified (9).
TP53 is fundamental to the recognition of DNA damage,
cell cycle arrest, and apoptosis (10). This gene is commonly
mutated somatically in cancer cells, but inherited mutations are rare. Inherited mutations in the TP53 gene give
risk to a condition known as the Li Fraumeni Syndrome
first recognized as an association between childhood soft
tissue sarcomas and very young onset breast cancer in
mothers of these children (11). The spectrum of cancers in
this condition is wide, the penetrance is very high, and
there is a 10% to 20% risk of childhood malignancy (12).
Fortunately LFS is rare (although the incidence is not well
defined it certainly affects fewer than 1 in 2000 people.
From an oncology perspective though it is more prevalent
amongst young breast cancer patients and may underlie
up to 7% of breast cancer cases diagnosed before 30 years
of age (13).

Figure 22.2

A family history due to classic Li Fraumeni Syndrome.

the management of an individual with a low or even
moderate level of increase in cancer risk is still largely
based on encouraging a healthy lifestyle and early introduction of cancer surveillance tests. Guidelines advocating
surveillance for genetic risks, especially in the moderate
increase category, are often based on expert opinion, local
resources, and interest, rather than irrefutable evidence of
a benefit from the tests advocated. Since many of these
mutations affect genes important for DNA repair, it is
important to consider whether the risk/benefit ratio of
repeated exposure to ionizing radiation, sometimes from
quite young ages, is in favor of an overall benefit.

COMMON VARIANTS WITH LOW PENETRANCE
RARE MUTATIONS WITH LOW PENETRANCE
By understanding and exploring pathways of relevance to
cancer development in general, several genes have recently
been discovered that when mutated confer a relatively
small (around two fold) increase in risk compared with the
general population risk. These mutations are rare and in
many cases were already known to cause much more
severe recessively inherited diseases in individuals who
inherit two faulty copies (homozygotes or compound
heterozygotes for a mutation). There are several examples
of such genes including Ataxia Telangiectasia known initially due to the childhood onset recessive disease but now
clearly demonstrated to increase the breast cancer risk in
carriers of a single ATM gene mutation a increased childhood malignancy risk and developmental anomalies
(14–16). There may be many such genes in which rare
mutations lead to a measurable but modest increase in
cancer risk, but finding these before cancer develops would
currently require full sequencing of potentially many
hundreds of genes (many of which are not yet known
to be associated with an increased risk). Furthermore,

Advances in molecular genetic technologies have lead to
the recent completion of many genome wide association
studies in a variety of diseases including common cancers.
These studies use large numbers of cases with controls (many
thousands often) to compare the frequency of genetic variants (usually single nucleotide polymorphisms or SNPs)
across the entire genome. Those that occur more commonly
in cases than controls, after appropriate statistical corrections,
are associated with an increased risk of developing the
disease (although are not necessarily causative). Typically
these common genetic variants individually confer very
small increases in risk (of the order of 1.3–1.5 fold), but
appear to act in a multiplicative way so that several risk
alleles can potentially increase the cancer associated risk to
as much as twice the average population risk (6). Over the
next decade, it is likely that many more risk alleles will be
identified, and the challenge will be to determine how
these interact with each other and with environmental factors in order for them to be applicable in risk determination in the clinic. For the time being, the family history is
likely to be as good a guide as genetic testing to risks
caused by this type of low-penetrance allele.

Chapter 22:

Inherited Predisposition to Cancer: Genetic Counseling and Clinical Management

None of these genes acts in isolation; high- and lowpenetrance genes are likely to interact with each other in
a variety of ways as well as being influenced by environmental factors, thereby modifying gene expression and
disease penetrance. Even for high-penetrance genetic predisposition then, genetic testing can provide an indication
of risk level on the basis of the presence or absence of a
single potent genetic risk factor but cannot accurately predict for an individual absolutely if, when and where cancer
will develop. Increasingly, it will be possible to study the
influence of genetic variants on long-term outlook following
cancer diagnosis. Such variants may act by driving phenotypic tumor features that are known to be associated with
prognosis, may influence treatment response, or may act
independently of these mechanisms. It will be important
for these studies to secure DNA samples from individuals
entering clinical trials where comprehensive clinical data
can be correlated with genetic data.

WHOM TO REFER FOR GENETIC INVESTIGATION
The family pedigree remains the mainstay of genetic risk
assessment at all stages from the general practitioner through
to the specialist genetic service. As a general rule, the average
age at the onset is usually more than a decade younger
for cancer in hereditary predisposition syndromes than for
the disease in the general population. The following broad
principles should alert the oncologist to the possibility of
an underlying genetic predisposition to cancer in a patient
presenting with malignancy:
• Unusually young age at cancer diagnosis
• More than one primary cancer (bilateral in paired organs
or two or more separate primary sites)
• A family history involving multiple affected relative
with the same or a related cancer on the same side of
the family
However, a striking family history is not always
apparent, and a family history of cancer can be obscured
for many reasons:
• Small family size
• Genetic or environmental modifiers that have substantially reduced cancer risks for gene carriers in the
family
• Paternity not being as stated
• Individual with cancer was adopted or is not in contact
with their family
• Paternal transmission of a cancer predisposition
predominantly affecting females
• Maternal transmission of a cancer predisposition
predominantly affecting males

FAMILIAL CLUSTERING OF CANCERS
Cancer is a common disease affecting one in three individuals in their lifetime. It follows that many individuals
are likely to have one or more relative affected by cancer
in an extended family. Older/typical age at onset, a variety of primary cancer sites, and evidence of substantial

381

environmental risk (e.g., smoking and lung cancer) are less
likely to be due to high penetrance single genes and more
likely to be due to clustering of low-penetrance risk alleles
in the family. Patients who have later onset disease and
one or two affected relatives at typical ages are less likely
to carry a high-risk single gene mutation. However, the
increase in risk to other relatives, even if likely to be due
to lower penetrance genes, may warrant some additional
surveillance strategy above what is offered in the general
population.

GENETIC ASSESSMENT
Where the possibility of a single dominant genetic cancer
predisposition syndrome is suspected, then referral for
further investigation to the clinical genetics service is indicated. The genetic assessment of the cancer family history
involves confirmation of key diagnoses where possible to
make an accurate assessment of the risk that the cancer
predisposition may be hereditary. This helps in making
decisions about whether to initiate genetic testing and to
advise the individual and their family of the probability of
developing the disease and the options available to manage
increased cancer risks.
The initiation of genetic testing requires careful consideration of which gene(s) to test and the chance of finding a pathogenic mutation. If genetic testing is undertaken,
the clinical interpretation and communication of the results
requires careful consideration of the family history and
context. Using genetic test information, individuals can
be advised of cancer risks and ways in which the genetic
condition can be prevented, avoided, or ameliorated.

GENETIC TESTING
Searching for a Pathogenic (Disease Causing)
Mutation in Each Family
It is important to recognize that when genetic testing to
find a faulty gene is initiated, there are very few situations
in which this testing can exclude the possibility of a strong
genetic predisposition. For a genetic test to be used to
exclude a diagnosis of genetic predisposition to cancer, all
mutations in all the genes that could possibly predispose
to the diagnosis must be detectable (this is almost never
true for cancer predisposition genes). The most appropriate
starting point for genetic testing is the individual in the
family who is most likely to carry the predisposition (this
means someone in the family who has been diagnosed
with a relevant cancer). For example, a family with a strong
history of colon cancer could be due to a mutation in one
of a dozen or more genes. Mutations are scattered throughout the coding sequence of these gene: some may be present in the intronic (noncoding) parts of the gene or may
affect regulatory sequences, and these intronic and regulatory sequences are not routinely examined in diagnostic
testing. Not finding a mutation when a genetic syndrome
is suspected may be due to many factors:
• The causative mutation was missed with the technique(s)
used.
• The wrong gene was tested.

382

Section III: Supportive Aspects

• The individual tested was a phenocopy (their cancer
arose by chance but the rest of the cancers in the family were due to a shared gene mutation not present in
the tested individual).
Solutions to these problems might be the following:
• New molecular detection techniques e.g., the development of a robust functional assay that tests the integrity of the molecular pathway in which several gene
mutations may lead to the same phenotypic effect
• Identification of all genes that can cause the same
phenotypic endpoint
• Testing of a second individual in the family who is
likely to be a gene carrier

Predictive Genetic Testing
In this situation, an unaffected family member who is at
risk of having inherited a mutation that has been identified
in an affected relative is offered a genetic test to clarify
their risks (Table 22.1). The probability that the individual
has inherited the gene mutation depends on the closeness
of relationship to the nearest gene carrier (50% a priori risk
for first degree relative, 25% for second-degree relatives,
and so on). This probability is modified by the ages of the
individual to be tested and any intervening unaffected
relatives. Once predictive testing has been completed, the
tested individual will know their genetic status. For a gene
carrier, we can predict a high lifetime chance of developing
the relevant cancer(s) (assuming the test is for a rare highly
penetrant pathogenic mutation). For an individual who

Table 22.1

does not carry the gene mutation, the risks are similar to
general population risks.

SPECIFIC GENETIC SYNDROMES
Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer
For a patient presenting with young onset breast cancer,
genetic predisposition should be considered, as it has
implications for future cancer risks for that individual and
for their close relatives. Families with four or more affected
close relatives with young-onset breast and/or ovarian
cancer are likely to be due to a mutation in either the
BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes. On the other hand, polygenic
susceptibility accounts for more than half of families with
three or fewer breast cancers particularly where age at onset
is similar to that in the general population. Figure 22.3
shows a typical pedigree caused by an inherited mutation
in the BRCA1 gene. The occurrence of ovarian cancer
and young-onset breast cancer in four close relatives is
highly likely due to a shared mutation in the BRCA1 gene
(or possibly the BRCA2 gene). The pedigree illustrated in
Figure 22.4 is more likely due to polygenic influences
(older average age of onset, unaffected intervening female
relatives).

Genetic Testing
There are several methods for assessing the likelihood that
a pedigree has occurred because of an underlying inherited
mutation in BRCA1 or BRCA2. Available methods have
variable sensitivity and provide a guide to clinical management but none are specific in relation to an individual (17).

Predictive Testing for Cancer Predisposition

What will the test result mean for the
individual?

A predictive test for a known high risk predisposition gene can tell a person they have a high lifetime
risk for the related cancer(s) or that their risk is similar to the population risk. Genetic tests can refine
risk assessment but cannot predict with certainty when and where a cancer will occur. They may
provide information that helps inform not only choices about risk management but also discussion
with the oncologist about cancer treatment.
Is there any means to avoid or
The individual must be fully informed about the risk of cancer and the options for surveillance and
ameliorate the consequences if the
prevention including the level of evidence that any proposed intervention will be effective. Sometimes
high risk mutation has been
a consultation with a surgeon may be appropriate as part of the information gathering process—this
inherited?
may be offered before testing but is more typically part of the detailed exploration of risk reducing
surgery options for someone testing positive for a high risk gene.
What is the risk of transmission to other Some individuals will choose to have genetic testing so that they can inform their children or other
family members?
relatives whether they need be concerned about genetic cancer risks. If this is the main motivation for
seeking testing then their relatives should be involved in the decision about testing. Some may not
wish to know and in a situation where there is no known effective intervention available to ameliorate
the risk, the genetic information may cause unresolvable anxiety for some individuals—others will find
that just knowing gives them a sense of control.
How will the information affect
Where a cancer predisposition syndrome leads to childhood onset of disease and where early
important family relationships?
surveillance or surgery is clinically important (e.g., the FAP) then testing is usually offered at the age
when the intervention will start for gene carriers. Complex responses can arise to genetic testing
outcomes reflecting often longstanding background family dynamics, health beliefs, and experience of
the genetic disease.
Testing of children for adult onset disorders is usually not appropriate and may pose particularly difficult
ethical dilemmas.
Discuss how the information will be transmitted to the wider family (a general letter giving a brief summary
of the genetic condition in the family and advising relatives to seek genetic advice can be useful)
Is the individual seeking testing
A supportive relative, partner, or close friend present through the genetic counseling process is very
particularly at risk for an adverse
valuable. Individuals or families with no support or who are psychologically vulnerable may benefit
reaction to the test outcome?
from additional input from an experienced clinical psychologist.

Chapter 22:

Inherited Predisposition to Cancer: Genetic Counseling and Clinical Management

383

Bilateral breast
cancer @ 33 and 36

48
Ca ovary @ 45

35
Ca breast @ 35

45
Primary peritoneal carcinoma @ 44

Figure 22.3 A typical family history due to an
inherited BRCA1 mutation.

33

Table 22.2 Main Sites of Increased Cancer Risk and Estimated
Cumulative Penetrancea

75

Cancer site

BRCA1 (risks are % risk to
age 70) (52,53)

BRCA2 (52,53)

Breast
Ovary
Prostate

44–78%
18–54%
May be small increase but
conflicting evidence

31–56%
2.4–19%
7.5% (by age 70 years)

Ca breast
@ 61

a

Ca breast
@ 58

62

65

Ca breast @ 65

35

Figure 22.4

Familial non-BRCA1/BRCA2.

Objective likelihood estimates however perhaps provide a
more equitable approach to the fair distribution of the cost
of mutation testing if this is conducted as part of a publicly
funded healthcare service (18). Furthermore objective assessments of likelihood, where a threshold of likelihood is
applied before molecular genetic investigations are initiated,
will inevitably find mutations in families with additional
factors that increase risk. Additional risk factors in the
family are likely to mean the family members can expect
a similar higher gene penetrance and in this stimulation
more radical interventions such as surgical prevention may
be favoured.

Figures are the percentage of gene carriers likely to develop the cancer by age
70 (52,53).

As genetic testing becomes cheaper, it may be tempting to request more and more genetic investigations to
identify mutations in these genes. However, as the likelihood of finding a pathogenic mutation decreases, the possibility that a variation in the usual wild type sequence of
the gene will be found coincidentally becomes relatively
greater. These variations in sequence arise as a result of
occasional miscopying of DNA during reproduction and
are often entirely coincidental to the disease phenotype.
However, if the particular mutation in the gene has not
been observed to be common in the population from which
the patient was drawn, the interpretation of the significance
of the variant becomes difficult and can lead to inappropriate consequences. Careful reporting and interpretation by
scientists and clinicians with specific expertise in this
area is essential to avoid misinterpretation of genetic test
results (19).
Hereditary breast and ovarian cancers due to a pathogenic mutation in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes leads to a
high lifetime cancer risks summarized in Table 22.2.

384

Section III: Supportive Aspects

Risk Management
Guidelines vary depending on the country of origin. At
present, there is no clear evidence that screening reduces
mortality in hereditary breast and ovarian cancer. Breast
screening using a combination of mammography, and MRI
does detect early breast cancers although a mortality benefit
has not yet been demonstrated (20,21). Current approaches
to ovarian screening have not so far been shown to lead
to earlier detection of the typical serous papillary cystadenocarcinoma of the ovary that develops in BRCA1 and
BRCA2 gene carriers and new approaches to ovarian
screening are needed (22,23). High-risk gene carriers
should be encouraged to consider risk reducing salpingooophorectomy once childbearing is complete. There is a
substantial risk of finding early ovarian or fallopian tube
malignancy in gene carriers who undergo risk reducing
salpingo-oopheorectomy, so very careful surgical operative
procedures are required to minimize the risk of spreading
occult malignancy at surgery and a thorough histopathological examination of the removed ovaries and fallopian
tubes is essential (24). If occult malignancy is identified,
this will require formal staging and may require consideration of adjuvant chemotherapy.

Benefits of Bilateral Salpingo-Oophorectomy
Bilateral oophorectomy may be a therapeutic option to
reduce endogenous estrogen for patients presenting with
ER positive breast cancer, but the same caveats about careful operative procedures, inclusion of fallopian tubes in
the resection, and careful postoperative tissue examination
apply. Bilateral oophorectomy has been shown to reduce the
future risk of new primary breast cancer for both BRCA1
and BRCA2 gene carriers if carried out before the natural
menopause (25,26).

Disadvantages of Bilateral Oophorectomy
The risk of menopausal symptoms, which for some women
may severely compromise the quality of life, may be a
disincentive to early oophorectomy. With no prior history
of breast cancer or perhaps where a clearly ER and PR
negative breast cancer was diagnosed in the past, low-dose
estrogen replacement therapy until the menopause (with
endometrial protection as appropriate) should be an option
for women who find severe menopausal symptoms are
having a significant impact on their quality of life (26). Some
women at high risk of developing breast cancer will elect
to have bilateral risk-reducing mastectomies, usually with
immediate reconstruction although the rate of risk reducing mastectomies varies widely between countries (27).

Hereditary Nonpolyposis Colorectal Cancer
(HNPCC or Lynch Syndrome)
Figure 22.5 shows a typical pedigree due to an inherited
mutation in the mismatch repair gene hMSH2. There
are more than three individuals affected by colon cancer
in more than one generation and the average age at first
diagnosis is less than 50 years. Endometrial cancer is also
highly suggestive of Lynch syndrome (28). Other tumors
are also seen more frequently than one would expect by
chance including urothelial transitional cell carcinomas,

CRC @ 52

CRC @ 35

CRC @ 61
CRC @ 65

CRC @ 45

Endometrial
Ca @ 49

Figure 22.5

Lynch syndrome.

Ovarian
Ca @ 64

ovarian cancer (often mucinous or endometrioid types),
hepatobiliary cancers, small intestinal, and gastric adenocarcinomas (29). Breast and CNS tumors are an infrequently
reported association. Keratoacanthomas and both benign
and malignant tumors of sebaceous glands are reported
in some families and were noted to be a part of the Muir
Torre syndrome now known to be part of the HNPCC
spectrum.
HNPCC is caused by mutations in one of a family
of mismatch repair genes. There are several mismatch repair
genes, but the three most commonly implicated in the genetic
diagnosis are hMLH1, hMSH2, and a somewhat smaller
proportion of families being due to hMSH6. The latter
tends to have lower and later penetrance for colon cancer
and a more striking endometrial cancer occurrence (28).
Biallelic mutations in another mismatch repair gene, PMS2,
leads to a high risk of primitive neuroectodermal tumors
of the CNS in infancy, and can be recognized due to the
skin manifestations of multiple café au lait patches and
neurofibromas that are more typically seen in Neurofibromatosis Type 1 (16). There may be no family history of
colorectal cancer; the penetrance of these mutations in the
heterozygous state is not known but is probably not high
(both parents of an affected child will carry one faulty copy
of the gene and will therefore be heterozygous for the
condition).

Polyposis Syndromes
Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is the most frequent
hereditary Polyposis syndrome at an estimated incidence
of about 1 in 10,000. The underlying gene fault is an inactivating mutation in the APC tumor suppressor gene.
The condition is transmitted as a dominant trait with very
high penetrance (30). In classic FAP, hundreds to thousands of premalignant adenomatous colonic polyps develop
throughout the colon due to somatic mutation in the
remaining wild type copy of the gene. Management comprises isolating the mutation for a newly diagnosed individual and offering predictive testing to all relatives. Lower
GI colonoscopy is offered from around the time of puberty
or before if symptoms arise. Total colectomy is currently
the best option to prevent colorectal cancer, and there
are a number of surgical options including laparoscopic
colectomy (31). Extracolonic manifestations include skin

Chapter 22:

Inherited Predisposition to Cancer: Genetic Counseling and Clinical Management

epidermoid cysts, desmoids tumors, gastric fundus polyps,
adenomas and carcinoma of the duodenum especially
around the Ampulla of Vater, osteomas especially in the
skull bones and supernumerary teeth. There is some correlation between the position of the mutation in the gene
and disease manifestations, and this can lead to variable
clinical presentation (32,33).
A recently discovered genetic condition that clinically can mimic FAP is due to biallelic mutation in the base
excision nucleotide repair gene, MutYH (34). This is a
recessive condition (both copies of the gene need to be
mutated before the phenotype appears). This diagnosis
should be considered in individuals or sibling presenting
with multiple colonic adenomatous neoplasms where neither parent is affected.
There are other rare dominantly inherited conditions
that can lead to clustering of GI cancers in families including the following:
• Juvenile polyposis caused by mutations in BMPR1A,
SMAD4, and other genes (polyps are often characteristic
of juvenile polyposis but can be very variable) (35,36)
• Peutz Jegher syndrome caused by mutations in STK11
(this diagnosis is usually accompanied by characteristic
freckling of skin and mucosal membranes) (37)
• Hereditary mixed polyposis (polyps are usually a mixture
of adenomas and hyperplastic polyps, some cases may
be caused by mismatch repair gene mutations) (30).

Diagnosis
A careful review of the clinical and pathological features
of the index case and possibly expert review of the colorectal pathology is often key to making the correct diagnosis
and guiding appropriate genetic testing (30).

Genetic Testing for Colon Cancer Genes
As for most other genes that give rise to cancer predisposition the initial step is to select an individual from the
family who clearly has a relevant phenotype and is willing
to give a blood sample for testing. For a common disease
like colon cancer, it is important to recognize that colon
cancer will also occur by chance and selection of the best
option for testing is the person in the family most likely
to be a gene carrier (for example the case with the youngest age at diagnosis or multiple primary cancers). In some
situations, detailed pathology review and additional tumor
testing may help select cases for genetic testing. For example, in Lynch syndrome, the presence of microsatellite
instability and loss of expression of one of the mismatch
repair proteins in tumor tissue helps to guide genetic analysis of the family and can be useful particularly where the
family history is not particularly striking (38). Next, the
diagnostic lab oratory scientific staff should be properly
instructed about the likely clinical diagnosis and the likely
gene to be affected; this will depend on family structure,
type and pattern of disease, and additional clinical features. Mutation analysis can then be targeted toward the
appropriate gene(s). A mutation that differs from the wild
type and is predicted to lead to a truncated or absent
protein product confirms the diagnosis and provides a
predictive test for at risk relatives. Not finding a mutation

385

does not refute a clinical diagnosis and may occur for the
same reasons as outlined on p. 381.

Management
Guidelines for surveillance, prevention, and treatment are
developed to take into account the cancer risks and the
typical ages of presentation observed in a genetic condition.
Many conditions that lead to a high genetic risk of developing cancer are rare, so in any one center, there is often
limited experience. Guidelines may develop out of a group
with a particular research interest, and may also be agreed
by large international consortia. There are inevitably country and center variations, which are sometimes shaped by
experience rather than constructed by a systematic review
of evidence of benefit but for the more common genetic
conditions surveillance protocols are largely evidence- and
consensus-based.
For HNPCC, most guidelines advocate colonoscopy
surveillance every one to two years starting at 25 years for
those who carry the gene mutation (39).
For FAP, screening starts at 10 to 12 years of age
annually and when polyps become numerous a subtotal or
total colectomy is the treatment of choice. A subtotal colectomy requires continuing surveillance of the remaining
rectum (31).
For other polyposis syndromes in general, surveillance also starts in the teens with colonoscopy and continues annually until polyp load or dysplasia result in the
need for prophylactic removal of the colon.
For familial colorectal cancer predisposition, examination of the colonic pathology (see tumour pathology section)
and the clinical picture can help to weigh against a diagnosis of HNPCC or one of the polyposis syndromes. In
such families polygenic etiology is the most likely explanation; like breast cancer, this will be the explanation for the
majority of families with two or three: cancers where onset
is after 50 and affected relatives are interspersed with older
unaffected relatives. Colonic tumors are usually microsatellite stable (MSS), and a less intensive surveillance regimen
is indicated in these families (40).

Hereditary Renal Carcinoma
For a patient presenting with renal carcinoma at an
unusually young age or where there was more than one
renal tumor in the same individual or there are other
family members affected with renal cancer, there may be
an underlying genetic explanation. Review of the renal
tumor cell type(s) can be valuable. Table 22.3 summarizes
some of the genetic conditions that can present with renal
carcinoma, the type of pathology typically seen, and the
associated features.

TUMOR PATHOLOGY
Knowledge about histopathological tumor type may
help guide genetic investigations to an underlying genetic
diagnosis.

Breast Cancer
BRCA1 and BRCA2 tumors are typically of higher histological grade than average (BRCA1 tumors are often

386

Section III: Supportive Aspects

Table 22.3

Possible Genetic Diagnoses for Patients with Multiple or Very Young Onset Renal Tumors

Syndrome

Gene (location)

Pathology of renal tumors

Von Hippel Lindau disease

VHL (3p25)

Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome

Folliculin (17p11.2)

Familial papillary renal cell
carcinoma
Tuberous sclerosis

c-MET (7q31)

Clear cell carcinoma, adenomas, and Retinal, cerebellar and spinal angiomas,
cysts
pancreatic cysts, pheochromocytomas
Oncocytomas and all other types
Fibrofolliculomas of skin, spontaneous
pneumothorax due to congenital bullae
Multiple bilateral papillary renal cell
carcinomas
Angiomyolipomas
CNS hamartomas and gliomas, cardiac
rhabdomyomas angiofibromas (face), ungual
fibromas
Multiple bilateral clear cell renal
carcinomas

Chromosomal translocation,
chromosome 3

TSC1, Hamartin (9q34)
TSC2, Tuberin (16p13)
3p (not the VHL locus)

grade 3, ER, PR, and HER2 negative tumors), more detailed
immunophenotyping shows that they are typically but not
exclusively similar to the basal subgroup of breast tumors
(41). BRCA2 tumors are less distinctive but tend to be
of higher nuclear grade and are more often ER and PR
positive and are usually HER2 negative (42). Familial
non-BRCA1/BRCA2—mostly due to polygenic and environmental factors—is typically lower grade (43). None of the
pathological features is diagnostic of an underlying BRCA1
or BRCA2 mutation but can help to weight the probability
of finding a mutation in a high-risk predisposition gene.

Colorectal Neoplasia
Review of the type of colorectal polyps found in family
members can be helpful for example hyperplastic polyps
are rare in FAP but more likely in HNPCC. Multiple
juvenile polyps are suggestive of JPS, but these are can be
reported as inflammatory or hyperplastic or many other
types of polyp (36).
For HNPCC, the pathology can be critical. The tumors
arise due to loss of the ability to repair copying errors
arising as a result of in misaligned DNA commonly seen
in areas of repetitive DNA sequence. Accumulation of replication errors is the underlying molecular pathology in
cancer generally and colonic neoplasia in Lynch syndrome
progresses rapidly to carcinoma once initiated. The underlying deficiency in DNA repair can be demonstrated by
examining the colon cancer for signs of mismatch repair
deficiency.
Antibodies to the proteins produced by each of the
mismatch repair genes can be used to examine protein
expression with immunohistochemistry. Loss of expression
of an MMR protein (Fig. 22.6A) implies loss of normal
function which may be due entirely to somatic loss of
function or may be due to an underlying inherited mutation in one copy followed by loss of the second copy due
to somatic mutation or epigenetic silencing (38).
Mismatch repair deficiency due to loss of function
in both copies of a mismatch repair gene in the tumor,
manifests as multiple additional alleles in tumor DNA
compared with normal tissue. DNA repair is effective in
tissues where there is still one normal copy of the MMR
gene (Fig. 22.6B).

Associated features

No evidence of microsatellite instability in a colorectal tumor (a microsatellite stable or MSS tumor) may be
due to any of the following possible explanations:
• There is no underlying mismatch repair gene deficiency.
• The tumor tested arose by chance (i.e., is a phenocopy)
other members of the family or other tumors from the
individual may show MMR deficiency.
• There is too much normal tissue mixed with tumor cells
to be able to observe the MSI phenotype.
Immunohistochemistry can be used to stain tumor
tissue for mismatch repair gene protein products. Loss of
expression of one or more of the mismatch repair genes
is indicative of loss of function in one of the mismatch
repair genes. This tumor-based testing can be useful in
assessing whether a colon cancer is likely to have arisen
due to an underlying error in one of the mismatch repair
genes. This might have arisen somatically or it might be
an inherited predisposition. Somatic loss of function due
to hypermethylation of the hMLH1 mismatch repair gene
accounts for some 10% to 15% of all colorectal cancers. In
the context of a young-onset tumor or a family history of
the disease, MSI and aberrant expression of one of the
MMR proteins warrants referral of the individual to the
clinical genetic services for further investigation including
genetic testing after appropriate counseling (38).
Where the likelihood is low that the colorectal cancer
has arisen due to a mismatch repair gene defect or one of
the polyposis syndromes, colonic surveillance guidelines
suggest a later start and less frequent colonoscopy surveillance and this is often guided by the pattern of cancers
and age at onset for the family seeking advice.

Gynecological Malignancies
Ovarian cancer can arise as part of a genetic predisposition
syndrome—most commonly hereditary breast and ovarian
cancer (HBOC—due to BRCA1 or BRCA2) or HNPCC. In
BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene carriers the most common histological type of ovarian cancer is serous papillary cystadenocarcinomas which typically present at advanced stages
and do not appear to be amenable to early detection using
current approaches (23). Ovarian tumors of borderline

Chapter 22:

Inherited Predisposition to Cancer: Genetic Counseling and Clinical Management

387

(A)

(B)

Figure 22.6 (A) Immunohistochemistry, colon tumor block stained with antibodies to hMSH2 showing loss of nuclear staining in tumor tissue and
normal (brown) staining in stromal cells; See Color Plate on Page xii. (B) DNA extracted from blood shows a range of alleles due to some slippage
during DNA amplification by PCR. The three DNA samples extracted from tumors from the same patient show clear evidence of microsatellite instability
with multiple additional alleles (peaks) compared to blood, this is particularly obvious in tumor 2.

388

Section III: Supportive Aspects

malignant potential are underrepresented and this pathological subtype of ovarian cancer contributes very little to
the estimate of likelihood of finding an underlying BRCA1
or BRCA2 mutation (44).
In HNPCC the ovarian tumors are more frequently
mucinous or endometrioid (unpublished data) and more
likely to present at earlier stages than in BRCA1 and BRCA2
(44). Endometrial cancer risk is higher than ovarian cancer
risk for women with Lynch syndrome, and of course, the
two may occur coincidentally.

SYSTEMIC TREATMENTS
Cytotoxic treatments in general exert their therapeutic
effect by damaging DNA to destroy the ability of rapidly
dividing cells to proliferate. Many of the genes that
predispose to cancer are genes involved in DNA repair
mechanisms. The genetic predisposition syndromes are
relatively uncommon and probably underdiagnosed and
any single oncologist will have limited experience of
patients with genetic predisposition to cancer.
When a cancer is diagnosed the treatment options
discussed are aimed at around reducing the risk of metastatic disease developing. There is a trade off between toxicity of treatment (both short and long term), either surgical
or cytotoxic and the benefit of treatment in terms of reducing the risk of recurrence. With hereditary cancer there is
the additional concern about an increased risk of further
primary tumors that may encourage more extensive surgery. The likelihood of developing metastatic disease from
the presenting cancer and the treatment options for that
must be clearly discussed and ideally separated from discussion about the likelihood of developing a new primary
cancer at some time in the future and options for reducing
that risk. The patient must understand this difference and
which management option applies to which risk in order
to make a rational choice about treatment options.
Currently, there is no evidence that acute toxicity from
cytotoxic treatments is increased in the more frequently
encountered cancer predisposition syndromes, specifically
BRCA1 and BRCA2 and the Lynch syndrome. However,
there is evidence that the cytotoxic agents employed in
managing the cancers may be more or less effective than
average because of the particular subtype of cancer that
these patients are more likely to develop. For example,
BRCA1 gene carriers tend to develop breast cancers that
fit into the basal subgroup and may be relatively resistant
to mitotic spindle poisons such as taxanes and have
increased sensitivity to platinum salts (46,47). Prognosis for
patients with MSI tumors is improved overall and there
appears to be little survival benefit for giving adjuvant 5FU
to a patient with a colon cancer due to a mismatch repair
gene defect although further data are needed in this
area both for sporadic and HNPCC associated MSI colon
cancers (48).
The tumor types seen in association with hereditary
predisposition also have their sporadic counterpart, probably due in the main to somatic silencing of the relevant
gene as part of the multistep process of carcinogenesis
(49,50). Development of novel therapies that target an underlying genetic defect that is predictably present in cancers
arising in those with a strong genetic predisposition provides

great promise for the near future. Furthermore, the genetically predisposed population provides an excellent group
in which to test approaches to cancer prevention (51). Novel
therapies may be most useful in numerical terms to preventing or treating sporadic cancers of the same type. For
example, the PARP inhibitor class of drugs was developed
and entered clinical trials very quickly compared to many
more conventional cytotoxic drugs (52). The enzyme PARP
is involved in repairing single strand DNA breaks; when
breaks in a single strand of DNA are not efficiently repaired
by the cell a double strand break ensues. Double strand
break repair requires a range of proteins including BRCA1
and BRCA2 to be present. When cells have no normal
functioning BRCA1 or BRCA2 and experience excessive
single strand DNA breaks due to inhibition of the PARP
enzyme, mitotic chaos follows. One normally functioning
copy of the gene seems to be sufficient for double strand
break repair so the only effect of the drug is in BRCA null
(cancer) cells.

SUMMARY
The oncologist is in a good position to identify individuals
with a genetic predisposition to cancer and initiate referral
to genetic services for further investigation. The family
history is the key tool for evaluating genetic risks however
there are certain features in an individual cancer patient
that might suggest the possibility of a high risk genetic
predisposition. Recognition of genetic predisposition to
cancer is important to manage risks for other family members and increasingly will become relevant for the targeted
treatment of the cancer patient her/himself.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I thank Dr. Adrian Bateman HNPCC immunohistochemistry (Fig. 6A) and Dr. Ester Cross for the MSI illustration
(Fig. 6B).

REFERENCES
1. Easton DF, Pooley KA, Dunning AM et al. Genome-wide
association study identifies novel breast cancer susceptibility
loci. Nature 2007; 447: 1087–93.
2. Hunter DJ, Kraft P, Jacobs KB et al. A genome-wide association study identifies alleles in FGFR2 associated with risk
of sporadic postmenopausal breast cancer. Nat Genet 2007;
39: 870–4.
3. Tomlinson IP, Webb E, Carvajal-Carmona L et al. A genomewide association study identifies colorectal cancer susceptibility loci on chromosomes 10p14 and 8q23.3. Nat Genet 2008;
40: 623–30.
4. Eeles RA, Kote-Jarai Z, Giles GG et al. Multiple newly identified loci associated with prostate cancer susceptibility. Nat
Genet 2008; 40: 316–21.
5. Bodmer W, Bonilla C. Common and rare variants in multifactorial susceptibility to common diseases. Nat Genet 2008;
40: 695–701.
6. Pharoah PD, Antoniou AC, Easton DF et al. Polygenes, risk
prediction, and targeted prevention of breast cancer. N Engl
J Med 2008; 358: 2796–803.
7. Antoniou AC, Spurdle AB, Sinilnikova OM et al. Common
breast cancer-predisposition alleles are associated with breast

