1

PREVENTION AND SCREENING IN ONCOLOGY
Renata Soumarová

Oncologic prevention is the most important point of National Oncological Programme (NOP) of Czech
Republic, which is based on the conditions and needs of Czech Republic and in concordance with the
conclusions of World Health Organization (WHO) adopted for cancer control.
The objectives of the National Cancer Program of the Czech Republic are aimed at reducing the incidence
and mortality of cancer, improving the quality of life of cancer patients and rationalizing the costs of
diagnosis and treatment of cancer in the Czech Republic. Under the guarantee of the Czech Society for
Oncology (CSO), the program is distributed to a number of institutions that may have the slightest
influence on the fulfillment of any point. Institutions are invited to sign the program and take
responsibility for its implementation.
The basic objectives of NOP include:
▪ reducing incidence and mortality of cancer,
▪ improving quality of life of cancer patients,
▪ rationalization of costs of cancer diagnostics and treatment in the Czech Republic.
The main objectives of NOP are:
▪ Professional support for teaching cancer prevention in schools. Popularization of primary tumor
prevention. In particular, reducing smoking in young people and women. Supporting positive
changes in nutrition and lifestyle.
▪ Ensure long-term functioning and audits of breast cancer, cervical cancer, and colon cancer
screening programs.
▪ Improve early diagnostics of malignant tumors, especially in cooperation with general
practitioners. Innovating the content of preventive examinations integrating the detection of
oncological, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases.
▪ Naming a network of complex diagnostic and therapeutic cancer care centers accredited by CSO
on the basis of four competencies: qualification, equipment, self-evaluation and communication.
▪ Promoting equality of coverage of the population with comparable cancer services and access to
information on cancer prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
▪ Ensure anchoring and stability of palliative and terminal care facilities. Support the development
of home care. Monitoring the quality of life and pain treatment of patients with advanced
malignancies.
▪ Support of continuity, stabilization, modernization and practical use of the database of the
National Cancer Registry of the Czech Republic for controlled preventive and diagnostic-medical
care in oncology.
▪ Support of applied cancer research and innovation. Introduction of principles of HTA (health
technology assessment) in oncology. Support of education in oncology.
Only by concentrating highly specialized cancer care in relevant healthcare facilities can patients be
provided with the highest quality care possible.
In 2005, the Czech Society for Oncology, ČSL JEP, institutionalized the establishment of Comprehensive
Cancer Centers accredited by CSO on the basis of four competencies: qualification, equipment, self-

12

evaluation and communication. Comprehensive cancer centers co-create a network of cancer services in
the regions in cooperation with other departments or outpatient departments involved in cancer care.
In general, the number of newly discovered cancer (incidence) is increasing, death rate (mortality) is
slightly lower (graph), but prevalence is clearly increasing, i.e. number of surviving cancer patients. Every
third inhabitant of the Czech Republic gets cancer during its life and one in four dies of it. Every year,
more than 96,500 people in the Czech Republic suffer from malignant neoplasm (data for 2016), of which
49,302 cases in men and 47,198 cases in women. In 2016, there were almost 562,329 persons living in
the Czech Republic who were diagnosed with cancer in that year or earlier. In the Czech Republic, 27,261
people died of cancer in 2016. Cancer mortality shows stagnation in absolute numbers! We are at the
forefront in the number of oncological diseases in Europe.
Among the most common diagnoses, except skin tumors, are colon and rectal cancers, malignant
prostate cancers in men, breast cancer in women and tumors of trachea, bronchi and lungs.
Main reasons of higher incidence of malignancies are:
▪ aging of the population – most tumors affect patients of middle and higher age, however
growing incidence of tumors in people between twenty and thirty years of age is also alarming,
▪ change in diet and lifestyle, higher occurrence of physical and chemical carcinogens, which is
caused, among other things, by environmental pollution,
▪ but even improved diagnostics and quality of healthcare, which leads to extended lives.

PRIMARY PREVENTION
Most of proven or probable risks leads to cancer only after some time. So, the sooner we will begin to
avoid them, the higher will be our chances, that their effect on our lives will not be fatal. Only about 5%
cancers are hereditary, at least third of tumors is preventable. Among those are for instance colorectal
carcinoma, carcinoma of cervix, breast, lungs, skin and ENT tumors.
Therefore, the objectives of primary prevention in oncology are:
▪ reduction of incidence of malignant disease
▪ reduction of adverse effects of treatment
▪ reduction of mortality
Since smoking, alcohol and overweight are among the main causes of cancer, the primary prevention is
primarily a change in lifestyle and eating habits.

SECONDARY PREVENTION
Secondary prevention, or screening, is aimed at detecting malignant tumors at an early stage, which is
best treatable. The screening is nationwide but at the same time focused on a defined part of the
population (e.g. regular recurrent mammography examinations in women over 45 years). Indicators of
secondary prevention are the ratio of localized tumor stages to other more advanced stages and the
development of cancer mortality. There are three basic screening programs in the Czech Republic:
mammography screening started in 2002, cervical screening (cervical cancer) started in 2008 and

13

colorectal cancer screening started in 2009. You can read more about all types of screening on the
website of the Czech Society for Oncology.

TERTIARY PREVENTION
The aim of tertiary prevention in oncology is to capture the possible return of cancer after primary
treatment and asymptomatic interval in a timely and thus still curable form. Cancer patients are followed
up for life (dispensarized). The way to improve tertiary prevention is primarily through better
organization of dispensary care and better communication between specialists and practitioners.
However, the problem of dispensary examinations is often the focus only on the original diagnosis or
organ. In addition to relapse, patients with a cured tumor are at risk of developing second primary
tumors. Secondary primary tumors have become the third most common tumor diagnosis. The incidence
of multiple primary tumors in the Czech Republic is more than 11% and is still growing.

QUATERNARY PREVENTION
Quaternary prevention in oncology refers to anticipating and preventing the consequences of a
progressive and incurable cancer that can shorten the rest of life or reduce its quality. These include, for
example, keeping in mind the provision and availability of analgesic treatment and professional
algesiological care before pain develops fully. It is also necessary to anticipate and timely address
nutritional measures, psychological support and social background with limited self-sufficiency. The
indicator of the quality of Quaternary prevention is mainly the continuous evaluation of quality of life
questionnaires adapted to the given type of disease.

Graph 1 Development of mortality of malignant tumors in men and women in the Czech Republic
between 1994 - 2016

14

2

BIOLOGY OF TUMORS
Marián Liberko

2.1 TUMOR GROWTH
Under normal conditions, cells of our body follow cyclical renewal, which allows for the replacement of
old, damaged, or mutated cells of our body with new cells. This process is under the control of a series of
different mechanisms. The control of these processes are hierarchical: mechanisms of cellular
proliferation control, mechanisms of cell cycle control, and cell cycle. The main characteristic of
malignant tumors is the failure of these control mechanisms (mutations), which leads to their
uncontrolled growth, resistance to apoptosis, and eventually its local, regional and distant metastasis,
which can be the main cause of death in patients. The cause of the mutation in genes related to the
control of cellular proliferation and apoptosis are not only external factors (physical, chemical, and
biological) but also internal factors as well (hormones).

2.2 MECHANISMS OF CONTROL OF CELLULAR PROLIFERATION
1. Proto-oncogenes – are genes, of which products are growth factors, receptors for growth factors,
signal transducers, and transcription factors. The effect of mutations can cause a change of protooncogenes in oncogenes, which can have a final impact of excessive and uncontrollable stimulation
of proliferation. An example can include excessive production of growth factors, activatable mutated
receptors, intercellular signaling, chimeric (fused) genes and more. A mutated proto-oncogene has a
dominant character, i.e, the mutation of one allele is manifested in the phenotype. For example:: kras, n-ras, b-raf, Her2-neu.
2. Tumor-Suppressor Genes – are genes, of which products have anti-proliferative effects, are involved
in the repair of DNA and the induction of apoptosis. Their mutations have a recessive character, i.e, it
is necessary to have a mutation of both alleles so that the mutation would be manifested in the
phenotype. Heterozygotes with inborn mutations in some tumor-suppressor genes have a higher risk
of inactivation of these genes (leading to development of tumors) due to it being sufficient to
inactivate the only active allele of the gene. For example: p53, BRCA1, BRCA2, Rb, FAP.
3. Mismatch Repair Genes – are genes, of which products are involved in the reparation of missmatched nucleotide bases, which occur during the replication of DNA, or due to environmental
factors. Their mutations have a recessive character.
Isolated mutations of individual proto-oncogenes, tumor-suppressor genes, and mismatch repair
genes do not lead to the development and transformation of malignant cells. It is necessary to obtain
numerous mutations in different genes to lead to the malignant transformation of normal cells through a
premalignant lesion. This process takes place over months, or years. Also, most of these mutations are
repaired in a timely manner, hence they often do not manifest.

15

2.3 CONTROL OF THE CELL CYCLE
The cell cycle is a tightly controlled process, which is under the influence of internal and external factors.
Regulation of the cell cycle includes - cyclins and cyclin-dependant protein kinases which are under the
control of regulatory mechanisms of cellular proliferation (more above).
Cyclins are proteins, which do not have their own intrinsic enzymatic activity. Their concentration
inside the cell during specific phases of the cell cycle increases and decreases.
Cyclin-dependent protein kinases are proteins, which have their own intrinsic enzymatic activity,
however it is only active when combined in a complex with cyclin (cyclin/cyclin-dependent protein
kinase). This complex regulates the progress of individual phases of the cell cycle.
There are many of these complexes, which to a certain level are specific to individual phases of the
cell cycle. For example: cyclin D/CdK4,6 – in the G1 phase of the cycle, respectively the transition from
G1/S. Their ongoing activation and inactivation is controlled by the changes in the individual phases of
the cell cycle.

2.4 CELL CYCLE
The cell cycle is the time between the formation of the cell until its division into two sister cells. It is
under the control of regulatory mechanisms of cellular proliferation and mechanisms of regulation of the
cell cycle (more above). The cell cycle is comprised of phases G0, G1, S, G2, M.
▪ G0 phase – most cells of an organism, resting phase.
▪ G1 phase – after mitogen stimulation, the growth of the cell commences, increasing the amount
and size of cellular organelles. Preparation for replication of DNA in S phase and synthesis of
needed proteins also occurs. G1 phase contains the main checkpoint of the cycle: G1/S checkpoint.
▪ S phase – takes up the longest time from the entire cell cycle. It is constant for each given cell.
Every chromosome is copied exactly based on its template chromosome.
▪ G2 phase – the cell continues to grow, synthesizes structures, proteins for the daughter cell,
synthesises proteins and structures for the mitotic apparatus. This phase contains the second main
control point of the cycle: the G2/M checkpoint.
▪ M phase – contains the separation of chromosomes and the eventual division of the cell into two
identical daughter cells.

2.5 IMMUNITY SURVEILLANCE
An important role in the process of surveillance and control of malignant transformation and tumor
growth is played by the cells of the immunity system. It is explained via the term immune surveillance,
which is when tumor cells are eliminated from the organism in a timely manner just like it would happen
to foreign cells. According to the theory of immune surveillance, there are three phases: elimination –
equilibrium – escape. It is sometimes annotated as the 3E Theory. During the elimination phase, tumor
cells are recognized and eliminated via the cells of the immune system, which in turn eliminates the
chance of malignant transformation. After some time, tumor cells begin to defend themselves. Not only
do they decrease the amount of surface antigens by which they are recognized but also produce
cytokines, which inhibit the cells of the immunity system causing a period of equilibrium, when the
16

tumor is present in subclinical signs, where there is an equilibrium between the production and
elimination of tumor cells. In the phase of escape, inhibitory mechanisms against host cells are
commenced by the tumor cells, leading to the progression of the tumor and eventual clinical
presentation/detection. This 3E Theory is the basis for successful application of immunotherapy in the
treatment of oncological disease. The principle lies in the reactivation of the cells of the immune system
in the fight against tumor cells. Possibilities include activation of activatable receptors and the inhibition
of inhibitory receptors of immune cells.

2.6 APOPTOSIS
During normal conditions equilibrium exists between proliferative cells and apoptosis. Both of these
processes are under tight control. In cancer we are met most often with dysregulation in both of these
processes. The effect is accelerated and uncontrolled proliferation with a concomitant disruption in
apoptosis. During early stages of tumor growth, growth is due to exponential proliferation of tumor cells,
which during later clinical manifestation slows down. Even after, the size of the tumor continues to grow,
but now more attributed to the development of resistance of tumor cells to apoptosis.
Apoptosis Is a physiological process, an active process, during which old, damaged, and mutated cells are
eliminated with the goal of preserving homeostasis in the organism. A disorder of apoptosis is typical for
cancer. Just like all other processes in the body, the process of apoptosis is highly controlled. The main
role is played by proteins in the family BCL2. Some are inhibitors of apoptosis: BCL2, while others are
activators of apoptosis: BAX, BAK, BOK. Two main paths for apoptosis exist, one being intrinsic while the
other being extrinsic, which converge on a common pathway.
The external (extrinsic) pathway is involved in the interaction between death receptor ligands and
receptors (Fas-FasL, TNF-TNFR, TRAIL-TRAILR). It is the main path towards apoptosis instigated by cells of
the immune system. After the binding of the lignand on the death receptor, a signal is given to the cell
which leads to the activation of the extrinsic pathway of apoptosis. Also activated is the chain reaction of
Procaspase 8 to Caspase 8, which further activates Procaspase 3 to Caspase 3 which is a mutual pathway
caspase.
The internal (intrinsic) pathway is launched by genotoxic stress, including damaged DNA mutation,
chemotherapy, radiotherapy and other factors. This type of damage leads to the activation of p53, which
furthermore stops cell cycle of a damaged cell. The effect of p53 further leads to increased expression of
pro-apoptotic proteins. In the end leading to more signals which induce apoptosis. Initiation of this
pathway occurs in mitochondria, which is why sometimes this pathway can also be named as the
mitochondrial pathway. The pathway leads to increased permeability of the mitochondrial membrane
and the release of cytochrome c into the cytoplasm, which in conjunction with proteins Apaf-1 and
Procaspase 9 make the complex apoptosome, which activates Procaspase 9 on Caspase9. Caspase 9
further activates Procaspase 3 to Caspase 3 which is part of the mutual pathway of apoptosis.
The mutual pathway of apoptosis therefore begins with the activation of Procaspase 3 to Caspase 3,
which can be activated by either the intrinsic or extrinsic pathways. The effector Caspase 3 further
initiates the condensation of chromatin, fragmentation of DNA, degradation of organelles, reduction in
size of the cell, and creation of apoptotic bodies, which are later phagocytosed by cells of the immune
system without the development of inflammation.

17

2.7 REPAIR MECHANISMS
Defects (mutations) in genes, which participate in the regulation of cellular proliferation, can be
identified and repaired by the organism, occurring most of the time. The cell has a few methods of how
to repair the mutation. Most of these repairs are instigated by the recognition of mutation by p53, which
can further through cooperating proteins stop the cell cycle, which allow for repair mechanisms to repair
the genetic defect. If the repair is not possible, apoptosis is incited. When repair mechanisms are faulty,
the mutation is left, increasing the chance of malignant transformation of the cell.
Repair mechanisms of the cell are: base excision repair, nucleotide excision repair, mismatch repair
for single strand break repair, and non homologous end joining and homologous recombination for
double stranded break repair.
Base excision repair – is the recognition and excision of a damaged base and its exchange with correct
complementary exchange. Nucleotide excision repair – is the recognition and excision of an entire
nucleotide and its exchange. Mismatch repair system – repairs improperly paired bases during
replication of DNA. Failure of this system leads to microsatellite instability. The repair system for single
stranded breaks- the break is repaired by the complementary template, which is the other strand of
DNA. The repair system for double stranded breaks - this system takes into account non homologous end
joining and homologous recombination. Non homologous end joining is a repair process, which is fast,
but prone to errors. During the repair of double stranded breaks, the break is repaired by random fill of
the missing bases or nucleotides which can lead to faulty proto oncogenes, tumor suppressor genes
when breaks occurred in the location of these specific genes.
Homologous recombination is another way of how to repair double stranded breaks it takes longer to
complete, however it repairs double stranded breaks without error. The repair takes place according to a
complementary template, which is copied from the identical chromosome during S phase, when the cell
has 2x 46 chromosomes. Homologous recombination takes place during S phase and G2 phase of the cell
cycle when every chromosome in the cell is duplicated. During G1 phase of the cycle, when the cell is not
disposed to a copy of each chromosome, the repairs according to Non homologous end joining take
place.

2.8 RESISTANCE OF TUMOR CELLS
Cancer is extremely difficult to treat when focused on the cause, which is mutations of many kinds of
genes. During treatment, many different modalities are sought for with the goal of long term remission
of the disease with bearable side effects of the oncological treatment. A common cause of the
persistence or relapese of the diseases is the resistance of the tumor cells towards therapy.
In their early stages of development, tumors are a heterogeneous group of cells, with different
sensitivity towards our therapy. The population of the tumor includes not only cells of the tumor itself
but also tumor stroma, vasculature, and cells of the immune system. The effect of treatment leads to the
reduction of the tumor population, ideally with complete remission seen with various imaging methods.
Furthermore, as to the heterogeneous tumor population, a certain small amount of tumor cells exist
which are resistant to treatment, i.e primary resistance. These cells are often named Tumor Stem Cells,
which have wide array of mechanisms of how to defend against damage caused by chemotherapy,
radiotherapy, and other modalities of oncological treatment. Even when imaging methods show

18

complete remission, these primary resistant cells are thought to be the cause of relapse in cancer.
Primary resistance is therefore “in born.”
During the treatment, we are often met with secondary resistance due to our treatment. The
effect of selective pressure leads to the eradication of sensitive cells and the persistence of resistant
cells. The surviving cells, under the effects of selective pressure of the therapy undergo more mutations,
which increases its aggressivity and resistance towards therapy. Sooner or later, it leads to failure of the
effect of previously effective therapy and the progression of the disease. With a change to a different
line of therapy, another population of tumor cells is eradicated. The effect of the next line of therapy is
reduced with the increase of resistant cells, thanks to these particular secondarily resistant cells, whose
characteristic resistance is “gained”.

19

3

ASSESSMENT OF THE EXTENT OF THE DISEASE AND TREATMENT
RESPONSE
Eva Kindlová, Martina Kubecová

3.1 ASSESSMENT OF THE EXTENT OF THE DISEASE – STAGING
An important factor determining not only the prognosis of the disease, but also the choice of treatment
modalities is the extent of the disease. Its exact determination is also important for the creation of
treatment standards, the possibility of comparing the treatment results of individual workplaces, for the
evaluation of epidemiological data, etc.
On the basis of agreements of international and national oncological societies, a uniform classification
was developed allowing a simple and relatively accurate description of the extent of the disease in most
solid tumors. This classification, called TNM system, has been accepted worldwide and is binding for the
Czech Republic. In addition to the TNM classification, there is also an “International Histological
Classification of Tumors”, but in practice the international classification of diseases for oncology “ICD-OWHO” is increasingly used.

3.2 CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM TNM
TNM classification is based on - T (tumor), N (nodule) and M (metastasis) assays.
▪

▪

▪

T-tumor – determines the extent of the primary tumor. The digits 1-4 attached to the letter T
indicate the range (size) of the primary tumor. It is determined by clinical and diagnostic
examination. If the primary tumor cannot be detected by available examinations, the symbol T0
is used; if the tumor size cannot be determined, or if available tests have not been performed to
identify the primary tumor, the TX symbol is used; to indicate carcinoma in situ – symbol TIS.
N–nodule – status of the regional lymph nodes. It is precisely determined, which lymph nodes
are regional for given tumor site. Numbers are used to describe their exact characteristics. N1N3 marks growing damage of regional lymph nodes, N0 means negative finding, NX marks, that
the finding on the lymph nodes cannot be accurately determined.
M – metastasis – describes the presence or absence of distant metastases, including metastases
in non-regional lymph nodes. Category of M1 can be specified according to localization (PUL pulmonary, OSS - osseous, HEP - hepatic)

At this point, it should be emphasized that once a TNM classification has been established, it must not
change! However, it can be supplemented – referred to as pathological classification – with p – pT pN pM
on the basis of other surgical examinations or histology.

3.3 DETERMINING RESIDUAL TUMOROUS POPULATION
While determining the extent of the disease is important in determining the treatment procedure at the
start of treatment, to stop or continue treatment we need information about the existence of a residual

20

disease. The residual cancer population may become the starting point for future recurrence or
generalization of the disease. Until recently, the possibilities of determining residual disease have been
very limited, and only methods of molecular biology and genetics make it possible in some cases to
determine the residues of the tumor population.

3.4 ASSESSING THE THERAPEUTIC RESPONSE
Assessing the therapeutic response has the same value as determining staging. A committee of
specialists from WHO has attempted to unify various suggestions for assessing therapeutic response.
Objective therapeutic response is assessed based on this proposal by 4 grades.
▪ Complete response (CR) is the disappearance of all measurable signs of disease, based on two
observations during at least 4 weeks. Measurable tumors are, if possible, denoted by two
dimensions, which are the longest diameter and its biggest perpendicular dimension.
▪ Partial response (PR) means 50 % and bigger shrinkage of measurable changes, again within 4
weeks. Also, there can be no new symptoms of tumor disease in other locations.
▪ No change (NC) or stable disease (SD) is marked for tumor shrinkage of less than 50 % or their
enlargement by less than 25 %.
▪ Progressive disease (PD) means enlargement of the tumor or existing measurable pathological
change by more than 25 % or discovering new, previously unknown lesion.

Currently most used system for rating therapeutic response in solid tumors is RECIST version 1.1 from
2009. The most essential changes compared to WHO are measurement of only one biggest diameter,
definition of measurable lesions and specifications of their maximum quantity.
Subjective therapeutic response is judged with significant difficulty. A wide range of complementary
aspects, such as pain relief and good appetite etc. exists, however these cannot be accurately evaluated
and compared. Unified point of view is used only for assessing physical performance. The most
commonly used score of physical performance is designed by WHO and evaluating performance by
Karnofsky.
Evaluating physical performance according to the point scale of WHO compared to Karnofsky
performance status scale.
Stage
WHO
0
1
2
3
4
-

Corresponding status of physical activity
Capable of normal physical activity
Incapable of heavy physical exertion, but capable of doing lighter work
Self-sufficient, but unable to work. Spends more than 50 % of day time
outside the bed
Limited self-sufficiency. Bedridden more than 50 % of day time
Dependent on assisting help. Permanently bedridden
Terminally ill. In last moments of life

21

Karnofsky
(%)
90–100
70–80
50–60
30–40
20–30
0–20

3.5 DURATION OF TREATMENT EFFECT
Duration of treatment effect besides tumor response is a parameter, which is used to evaluate the
therapeutic effect. Among the most important and most used in clinical oncology studies (usually used to
compare new treatment plan to current one) are:
▪ overall survival, OS – time till death (all causes mortality)
▪ cause-specific survival – time till death caused by observed disease, other causes of death are not
counted
▪ disease free survival, DFS – time period, during which the patient is alive and healthy and has no
signs of disease after previous successful treatment of primary tumor (surgery, radiotherapy in
some tumors)
▪ progression free survival, PFS – time period, during which the patient is alive and has no signs of
tumor progression, is used for patients without surgical treatment and/or metastatic disease
▪ time to progression, TTP – is evaluated similarly to PFS, however without including patients who
die from causes other than tumor progression.

22

4

BASICS OF RADIATION ONCOLOGY
Karel Odrážka, Tomáš Blažek

4.1 HISTORY
Radiotherapy is a medical field using biological effects of ionizing radiation for therapeutic purposes. It is
mostly used to treat tumor disease - radiation oncology, and to a lesser extent to treat some
degenerative or inflammatory diseases.
Radiotherapy is one of the youngest medical fields. It’s growth was made possible by the discovery of
X-ray by Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen. It was on October 8th of 1895 when, during his tests with cathode
tube, which he from unknown motives wrapped in a black paper, he noticed, that luminescent shade
with a layer of cyanide platinum-barium fluoresces even with a thick book placed between tube and
shade. Only when he put a metal object in between, the fluorescing stopped. And when he put his hand
in between the tube and shade, he saw a thin outline of his bones on the shade. He discovered, that the
radiation will blacken a photographic plate and made the historically first X-ray photo, which was one of
the hand of his wife, wearing a ring. He announced his discovery on January 23rd of 1896 on a meeting
of scientific society in Würzburg. For this, he received his first Nobel Prize in Physics in 1901. He accepted
the award and left the financial reward 50 000 Swedish crowns to the University of Würzburg.
It was soon discovered, that X-rays can be used even for therapeutic purposes. First attempts were
happening several years after the discovery of X-rays in treatment of skin and breast cancers. In 1903, C.
L. Leonard published a paper on tumor treatment using X-rays, in which he described, besides the
palliative effect, cases of complete cure of cancer.
Next important milestones of radiotherapy development were the discovery of natural radioactivity
by Henri Becquerel in 1896 and the discovery of radium and polonium by Marie Curie-Sklodowska in
1898.
Radiotherapy defined itself as a separate medical field in 1922, when Coutard and Hautant reported
in International congress of oncology in Paris on completely curing advanced larynx cancer by radiation
without developing any severe complications.
The first half of the 20th century was an era of orthovoltage X-ray machines (kV voltage), which
produced radiation of low energy, which resulted in depositions of dosage in surface layers of namely
skin and subcutis. For this reason, these machines were used in treatment of skin cancers and surface
located tumors. Orthovoltage X-ray machines found their limits in deep tumors because of the physical
aspects of radiation absorption described above. Treatment of deep tumors was only accessible after the
development of high energy “mega-voltage” sources of radiation. Among the first machines of this kind
were cobalt irradiators, which were installed in the early fifties. Further development took the path of
linear accelerators. The first linear accelerator was used in England in 1953. In the present, linear
accelerators belong among the standard sources of radiation for external radiotherapy.

23

4.2 RADIOLOGIC PHYSICS
4.2.1 Ionizing radiation
Ionizing radiation is a radiation, whose quantums have energy high enough to detach electrons out of
the electron shell and thereby ionize the substance. For common types of radiation of photons (γ a X),
electrons (β-) and α, the standard energy limit of ionizing radiation is considered to be 5keV.
From the perspective of interaction of radiation with matter, ionizing radiation is divided into two
groups:
▪ directly ionizing radiation – radiation, whose quantums carry an electrical charge, which is why
they detach electrons out of atoms using Coulomb electric forces; radiation α, β-β+, proton
radiation p+ and others like heavy particles (carbon nucleus) belong in this group
▪ indirectly ionizing radiation – radiation, whose quantums are not electrically charged, they
transfer their kinetic energy to charged particles, mostly electrones, and it is those particles that
result in secondary ionization; X-rays, γ radiation and neutron radiation belong in this group
Radiotherapy uses mostly electromagnetic (photonic) radiation γ respectively X and electron
radiation. This is why only interactions of these types of radiation will be discussed in the following text.
Radiations γ and X have the exact physical properties (photonic radiation), however they differ in the
manner in which they arise.
Photonic radiation emitted from atom nucleuses of radio-active elements is called γ radiation (even if
the radiation has a low energy of several keV). Typical source of γ radiation is 60Co. Radiation emerging
via atomic electron transition in electron shell and braking radiation emerging during the impact of
accelerated atoms on braking target made of heavy metal are called radiation X (X-rays).

4.2.2 Interaction of electron radiation (β -) with matter
During its flight near atoms, β- particle, a negatively charged electron, gives away a part of his kinetic
energy to other electrons via electric repulsive forces. If the energy of the electron is low, it is only
enough for the electron to jump to a higher energy level = excitation. Excited state of an atom is
unstable, electron will momentarily jump back to its original lower energy level and the energy
difference is radiation in the form of quantum of electromagnetic radiation, respectively photon. Light is
emitted during the excitation of electrons in the outer energy levels, UV light in the middle energy levels
and characteristic radiation X in the inner energy levels. If the energy of the passing particle sufficient,
enough energy can be transferred to fully release electron from its bind to mother atom – an ionization
of an atom will occur. The now free electron will be subjected to the same interactions as the original, it
can ionize other electrons along his path - secondary ionization. Besides excitation and ionization,
scattering can happen - electric Coulombic and nuclear forces affect electron during its passing by and
these forces can alter its direction. The scattering can be elastic, when there is only change in the
direction of the path of the electron and kinetic energy remains the same. Opposite of that, inelastic
scattering can happen in electron with high energy and is usually accompanied by excitation or ionization
of atoms.

24

4.2.3 Interaction of γ and X radiations with matter
Photons of γ and X radiation do not carry an electric charge, however they are quantums of quickly
oscillating electric and magnetic field, so they can transfer electromagnetic energy to other particles,
which causes secondary ionization. Possible interactions are these:
Photoelectric effect – photon will hit and electron bound in electron shell of an atom, transfers all its
energy to this electron and expires; the released electron will leave the electron shell with kinetic energy
equal to the difference of energy of radiation and the binding energy needed to release that electron; it
will now act as a β radiation, cause excitations and ionizations; an electron from a higher energy level will
fill the void in the electron shell left by the electron that was knocked out of its place and the difference
between the two energy levels will be emitted as a quantum of electromagnetic radiation - characteristic
radiation X; photoelectric effect happens most commonly with γ radiation will lower levels of energy and
in elements with high proton number Z, the chances of photoelectric effect happening with energies
higher than 1-2MeV are minimal.
Compton scattering – a photon of γ radiation hits a free or weakly bound electron, transfers part of its
energy to the electron, bounces elastically and continues in his movement on an altered path and with
lower energy; the higher the angle of the scattering, the more energy photon loses (and the more
electron receives); the accelerated electron will again cause secondary ionization; the chance of
Compton scattering grows with proton number and decreases with higher energy of photons; Compton
scattering is the most common interaction during radiotherapy using linear accelerator.
Creation of electron-positron pairs – if a γ radiation photon flies into a substance of high enough energy
(above 1,022 MeV), then it can change into a pair electron + positron during its passing by the atom
nucleus; out of this pair only the electron remains as a permanent particle, the positron will brake and
annihilate with one of the other electrons and give rise to two γ radiation photons of 511 keV of energy
each, flying in opposite directions from the place of the annihilation under the angle of 180° from each
other; the process of creating electron-positron pairs happens mostly with high energy gamma radiation
and elements of high proton number.

4.2.4 Physical values describing radiation
energy E – kinetic energy gained by a charge of one electron in electric field with acceleration by the
potential difference of one volt is 1 eV (electronvolt), while 1 eV = 1,602 x 10-19 J; a radiation of 4-20 MeV
of energy is used in radiotherapy of malignant tumors
activity A – expresses the number of radioactive transformations in a specific amount of radionuclide per
unit of time; its unit is 1 Bq (becquerel), i.e. 1 transformation in 1 second.
dose D – energy of radiation absorbed in substance of certain mass; its unit is Gy (gray), while 1 Gy = 1
J/kg; surface dose is the dose on the surface of radiated volume; maximum dose is the highest dose in
radiated volume, in high energy radiation is in a certain depth below surface according to the energy of
radiation (effect of secondary electrons); depth dose – dose on the central beam in certain depth below
the surface, most commonly expressed as percentage depth dose.
isodoses are curves connecting points with the same value of dose, they have typical layout according to
the type and energy of the radiation (Fig. 1).
dose equivalent H – expresses biological impact of various kinds of ionizing radiation; it is the product of
absorbed dose in tissue and quality factor (indicates how many times is a certain type of radiation
25

biologically more active than reference photonic radiation of energy level of 200 keV); its unit is 1 Sv
(sievert), while 1 Sv = J/kg
linear energy transfer LET – energy transferred by ionizing radiation into absorbing surrounding on a
certain path; its unit is 1 keV/μm.

Fig. 1 Isodose curves of photonic radiation of energy of 18 MeV

4.2.5 Sources of ionizing radiation in radiotherapy
It is necessary to use particles accelerated to a higher kinetic energy for therapeutic application of
ionizing radiation and increase of depth dose (i.e. preventing absorption of the dose on the surface of
the skin and subcutis). It is possible to accelerate only electrically charged particles - electrons, protons,
helium nuclei and nuclei of heavier elements. Photons of electromagnetic radiation, which are
incorporeal and carry no charge, are obtained secondarily – by interaction of accelerated particles
(usually electrons) with suitable material (with high proton number). Particle accelerators work on the
principle of electric field, magnetic field is used only to change the trajectory of charged particles
(alternatively to induce electrical field for acceleration).
Therapeutic X-ray irradiators
Orthovoltage X-rays produce radiation X with energy of 10-300 keV and are used to treat surface skin
tumors, in palliative therapy of surface metastases and for non-tumorous therapy. The irradiation
distance is minimal (usually under 50 cm) and the dose delivered decreases sharply as the radiation
moves into the body. The source of the radiation is an X-ray tube – vacuum tube placed in a circuit of
high voltage. Hot cathode emits electrons, which are drawn towards the anode and accelerated by a
strong electric field.
26

During the impact on the anode they brake sharply and part of their kinetic energy is transformed into a
braking electromagnetic radiation – radiation X with continuous spectrum.
Cobalt irradiator
Cobalt bomb is used a source of radiation of cobalt 60. The overall activity of typical source of a diameter
of 15-20 mm is approximately 5-10 thousand Ci. Half-life is 5,3 years; cobalt releases gamma radiation of
energy of 1,17 and 1,33 MeV. The dose maximum is 5 mm below surface, 50 % of dose is 10 cm below
surface. The source is shielded by depleted uranium. The radiation is started by moving the source from
resting position to working position i.e above the outlet opening. A radiation beam from outlet opening
is circumscribed (collimated) by two pairs of primary coverings. The cobalt irradiator is currently used
primarily in palliative radiotherapy; however in selected tumor locations it is admissible to use it in
curative radiotherapy (e.g. carcinoma of the vocal cords).
Linear accelerator
The basic machine for external radiotherapy is currently linear accelerator (Fig. 2). The modality used
today are high frequency accelerators, where accelerating electrodes are connected to alternating
current. Electrons are always accelerated in between the electrodes, whose polarities are reversed with
the correct frequency. The acceleration happens in waveguide, separated into a series of resonating
cavities, connected to a high frequency current
generator (klystron or magnetron). A high frequency
alternating electromagnetic field is created inside the
waveguide in the form of transverse or longitudinal
electromagnetic wave. If the charged particle is
synchronized with the waves of the field, a permanent
accelerating force defined by the electrical part of the
electromagnetic wave will act on the particle.

Fig. 2 Linear accelerator
Particles (electrons) are injected from ionic source or electron nozzle (e.g. hot fiber in a lightbulb
emits electrons) in a pulse sequence, in precise electronic synchronization with accelerating high
frequency field. The accelerated electrons land on a wolfram target, giving rise to a high energy photon
radiation X. A beam of photons exiting the head of the machine is formed by the covering of a
collimator. It is also possible to gain and use accelerated electrons of various energies (usually between
6-20 MeV), besides the photon beam (usually 6 MeV and/or 18 MeV). The central axis of the beam of
radiation will always target one point - isocenter, which is usually 100 cm from the source of the
radiation (i.e. the gantry is moving along the surface of imaginary sphere of a radius of 100 cm).
Isocenter is usually set to target the center of irradiated mass, so that we can position the patient and
then move from one field to another without changing the position of the patient.
Work without accessories is unthinkable for the modern methods of radiotherapy – remotely
controlled adjustable table, focusing lasers on the walls, wedge and compensatory filters, individual
covering blocks, tubes for electron beam, dynamic wedges, multileaf collimator (MLC), fixation aids.
Linear accelerator has multitudes of advantages compared to the cobalt irradiator:

27

▪ smaller penumbra = higher accuracy of irradiation of the edge of the field, possibility of more
accurate connection on the edges of irradiated fields,
▪ higher depth dose = possibility of irradiation in deeply located tumors while being gentle to
surfacely located tissues, namely skin, reduction of risk of fibrosis and irradiation changes of the
skin,
▪ possibility of use of both photons and electrons, possibility of modulation of fluence of photons,
higher radiation security. Linear accelerator is the standard device for curative radiotherapy.
Modern linear accelerators can supply photons (X-rays) and electrons. Photons are not as harmful to
the skin and have a maximum dose in 15-25 mm depth at energy of 6-18 MeV. We use them to irradiate
tumors located deep in the body. While electrons have their maximum on the skin, their advantage is
limited reach into the body (in order of centimetres depending on energy). They are used to irradiate
tumors located on the skin or in subcutis, because they are gentle to deep tissues below the tumor.

4.3 RADIOBIOLOGY
The effects of radiation on living organisms is studied by radiobiology. As per its name, the main
mechanism of ionizing radiation is ionization. In the case of irradiating complex organic compounds, it
will induce the release of chemical bounds, dissociation of molecules and creation of highly reactive
radicals, which further react with molecules of the substance, while giving rise to new compounds.

4.3.1 Effects of ionizing radiation on cells
The effect of ionizing radiation on living tissue takes place in four stages:
▪ physical stage – ionization and excitation, this process is very fast, virtually instantaneous
(fractions of seconds),
▪ physico-chemical stage – secondary processes of interaction of ions with molecules, dissociation
of molecules and formation of free radicals by water radiolysis; also a very fast process (fractions
of seconds),
▪ chemical stage – reaction with important organic molecules, change of their composition and
function; typical disorders are DNA strand breaks (single-strand, double-strand break), atypical
binding bridges within the DNA double helix, local denaturation; lasts from thousandths of a
second to several seconds,
▪ biological stage – development of functional and morphological changes; it can manifest itself
after several tens of minutes at high doses of radiation, at medium doses within a few days – acute
damage or radiation sickness, at low doses the latency is up to several years or even tens of years.
DNA is the key molecule in terms of the biological effect of radiation. It can be damaged by photons
directly – the direct effect of radiation. These interactions are relatively rare but lead to significant DNA
damage, including double-stranded breaks. More frequent (about 70%) is the indirect effect caused by
free radicals, which are formed mainly from water molecules (hydroxyl radical, peroxides).
Critical lesions for further cell fate are double breaks. Some may be repaired; others will remain
uncorrected due to a saturated repair process, insufficient repair time, or erroneous repair.
28

The cell response to radiation can be cell death, cell division arrest, or a change in genetic information
passed on to the next generation of cells - a mutation. Cell death may be direct due to high radiation
dose in interphase (intermitotic death). More common is mitotic death, which occurs during cell
division. Cells are most sensitive to irradiation at the G2-M phase and G1-S phase transition. Relatively
radioresistant cells are in the G0 and S phases. Therefore, cells that divide rapidly exhibit higher
radiosensitivity.

4.3.2 Effect of ionizing radiation on tumors
Tumors differ by different sensitivity to radiation (radiosensitivity). In practice, all tumors are curable by
irradiation, the limiting problem remains the presence of surrounding healthy tissues that prevent
delivery of a sufficient lethal dose. Extremely sensitive to radiation (a relatively low total dose is
sufficient to eradicate a tumor) are lymphomas, leukemias and germ cell tumors. Carcinomas are
moderately sensitive, relatively radioresistant are especially gliomas and sarcomas. Tumor
radiosensitivity is mainly influenced by the following factors.
▪ hypoxia – lack of oxygen in the tissues reduces the effect of radiation; because oxygen binds free
electrons in the tissue and extends the duration of exposure to hydroxyl radicals.
▪ the proportion of clonogenic cells – proliferating cells are more sensitive to radiation because
they are more likely to be in the process of cell division during the time of irradiation.
▪ radiation damage repair – the ability to repair DNA damage is different for different tumors and is
virtually always limited compared to healthy tissues.

Radiosensitivity, however, does not mean radiocurability, for example lymphomas are very sensitive
to radiation, but often relapse in non-irradiated areas. In contrast, cervical cancer, for example, is
moderately radiosensitive but curable by irradiation.
The likelihood of curing a tumor correlates with the total dose of radiation, as each dose kills a fixed
percentage of cells. Microscopic lesions may most likely be eradicated at 50 Gy, but for macroscopic
tumors doses of 60 Gy or more are required.
To describe the effects of radiation on the organism (healthy tissue), the linear-quadratic (LQ) model
is used. It is a physical calculation expressing the relationship (the dependency) of cell population survival
on the dose administered. The biological nature of the tissue is not homogeneous, but consists of various
cellular elements that differ in their growth activity, division and repair ability. While the mucosal
epithelium, bone marrow, tumor tissue show relatively high growth fraction and cell division, connective
tissue, muscle, glia are tissues with little cell turnover (cell division). These factors are taken into account
in the LQ model using the alpha / beta parameter. The alpha parameter takes into account the cell
population in the tissue that responds to the irradiation with lethal damage; the number of cells killed is
proportional to the dose of radiation applied (decreases linearly). In the beta cell population, the
decrease in elements is non-linear, that is, the cells are resistant to a certain dose of radiation and are
able to repair changes after irradiation due to reparative mechanisms. Radiation causes sublethal
damage. Only after a higher dose is the cell killed. The decrease in the cell population is quadratic;
proportional to the square of the dose. The alpha / beta ratio is different for different tissues (healthy
and tumor). Tissues with alpha / beta > 10 (most tumors, mucous membranes) react already during
irradiation and are less sensitive to changing individual doses of radiation. The total dose administered is

29

important. Tissues with alpha / beta <5 (prostate cancer, nerve tissue) respond to irradiation with late
changes, due to a greater proportion of the beta population and the ability to repair cell damage (see
sublethal damage). Therefore, they are very dependent not only on the total applied dose, but above all
on the amount of the single applied dose (fraction).

4.3.3 Effect of ionizing radiation on healthy tissues
Tumor irradiation always involves irradiation of healthy tissues in close proximity to the tumor. However,
the degree of damage to healthy tissues does not correspond to the degree of tumor damage because
the ability to repair radiation damage is defective in tumor tissue. Therapeutic use of ionizing radiation
is based on this fact.
The aim of radiotherapy is to inject a dose of radiation into the tumor area that can destroy the tumor
and at the same time minimally damage surrounding healthy tissues. The total dose administered to the
tumor region is dependent on the tolerance of healthy tissues. It is necessary to choose the optimal form
of radiation (external radiotherapy or brachytherapy), type of radiation (photons, electrons), radiation
energy, fractionation (total dose and dose per fraction), number of fields, field shaping, healthy tissue
coverage, patient position and fixation devices. All this to minimize the risk of radiation damage to
healthy tissues and deliver the highest possible dose to the tumor area. The therapeutic options are
documented by the Paterson graph (Fig. 3), which depicts the dose-dependency of the relative number
of killed tumor cells (curve a) and the dose-dependency of the risk of irreversible damage to healthy
tissue (curve b). If the tumor is radiosensitive, the curve is shifted further to the left, if it is radioresistant,
the curve shifts to the right, closer to the tissue injury curve. The ratio of the lethal tumor dose and the
tolerance dose of healthy tissue is called the therapeutic ratio. Tumor and healthy tissue response to
radiation is influenced by a number of factors, collectively referred to as radiation response modifiers.
▪ factors enhancing the effect of radiation – radiation of high LET (Linear Energy Transfer – its effect
is minimally influenced by tumor hypoxia), chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, hyperthermia; the
resulting effect is usually additive, rarely potentiating,
▪ radiation attenuating factors (protecting healthy tissues) – conformal radiotherapy (advanced
radiotherapy techniques – IMRT, IGRT enabling targeted tumor irradiation), radioprotectives
(drugs protecting healthy tissues, not tumor, e.g. amifostine).
Fig.3 Paterson graph

left, tumor control probability (curve a),
right, probability of complications (curve b)
30

4.4 TOXICITY OF RADIOTHERAPY
4.4.1 Forms of radiation toxicity
Side effects of radiotherapy can be:
▪ local – they are limited to the irradiated area, they have typical exactly localizable manifestations
depending on the irradiation site,
▪ systemic – tend to be non-specific, general fatigue, malaise, anorexia, nausea, vomiting; they
occur mainly when irradiating large volumes, especially in the abdomen; hematological
complications resulting from irradiation of the bone marrow can be included.
According to the time of onset of the reaction we distinguish 2 forms of radiation toxicity:
▪ acute radiation toxicity – is defined as the adverse effect of RT occurring within 90 days of the
onset of RT. It typically manifests during the irradiation series; it mainly relates to rapidly
proliferating tissues such as the skin, mucous membranes or the hematopoietic system; they are
tissues with frequent cell division of stem cells – they respond to irradiation quickly, but also
recover relatively quickly; morphologically it is various forms of acute inflammatory reaction; early
toxicity is usually fully reversible, but very rarely transient to late toxicity
▪ chronic radiation toxicity – occurs after the end of the irradiation series at a distance usually with
latency (months, years); affects slowly proliferating tissues, tissues with slow cell population
variation such as liver, kidney, heart, lung, CNS, muscle, subcutaneous tissue; the late reaction has
the characteristics of atrophy, fibrosis, the formation of teleangiectases, and in the case of
parenchymatous organs decreased function; it is a chronic inflammatory reaction with typical
collagen overproduction and radiation fibrosis, which is caused by microvascular damage; tissue
changes are permanent, clinical manifestations may change over time (worsening and
improvement).
Historically, when using orthopedic X-ray therapy, the skin was the main risk structure limiting the
amount of total radiation dose administered. The reason was late toxicity in the form of fibrosis and
chronic defects. With the use of high energy photons with a skin-saving effect, skin reactions are no
longer so severe and the internal organs have become the limiting factor. Acute and chronic toxicity is
evaluated according to different scales, the most commonly used is the RTOG / EORTC scale (Tables 1
and 2). Toxicity is evaluated in several stages (0–4 and 0–5, respectively), with the highest degree
associated with fatal consequences. With proper indication and proper radiotherapy, severe toxicity
occurs in less than 5% of patients, so many of the radiation side effects described below are no longer
encountered in practice.

31

Table 1 Criteria for assessing acute toxicity according to RTOG / EORTC for selected tissues and organs
Degree

0

Skin

no
changes

Mucous
membranes

no
changes

swelling, mild pain
not requiring
analgesics

confluent mucositis,
seropurulent
secretion, mild pain
requiring analgesic

no
changes

mild dysphagia or
odynophagia
requiring a light
diet, local
anesthetics or
non-opioid
analgesics

moderate dysphagia or
odynophagia requiring
opiates, ground or
liquid diet

pharynx,
esophagus

1
low erythema,
epilation, dry
desquamation,
decreased
sweating

2
clear erythema, nonmerging wet
desquamation,
moderate edema

3
flowing wet
desquamation,
marked edema
confluent fibrinous
mucositis,
severe pain requiring
opiates
severe dysphagia or
odynophagia with
dehydration or
weight loss> 15%,
requiring an NG
probe, i.v. hydration
or parenteral
nutrition

4
ulceration,
bleeding,
necrosis
ulceration,
bleeding,
necrosis

complete
obstruction,
ulceration,
perforation,
fistula
severe
neurological
deficit paralysis, coma,
seizures> 3
times a week
even during
medication
acute or
subacute
obstruction,
fistula,
perforation,
bleeding
requiring
transfusion,
pain or tenesma
requiring stoma

no
changes

normal functional
state with mild
neurological
findings, without
medication

Neurological findings
requiring second
person assistance,
steroid medication or
anticonvulsants

neurological finding
requiring
hospitalization

lower GIT

no
changes

frequent stools or
change in the
nature of stools
not requiring
medication, rectal
discomfort not
requiring
analgesics

diarrhea requiring
parasympatholytics,
mucus secretion not
requiring inserts, rectal
or abdominal pain
requiring analgesics

diarrhea requiring
parenteral hydration,
mucus or blood flow
requiring pads, airfluid levels on X-ray

leukocytes
(x 1000)

≥ 4.0

3.0 – < 4.0

2.0 – < 3.0

1.0 – < 2.0

< 1.0

platelets (x
1000)

≥ 100

75 – < 100

50 – < 75

25 – < 50

<25 or
spontaneous
bleeding

hemoglobin
(g/l)

≥ 110

95 – 110

75 – < 95

50 – < 75

-

CNS

32

Table 2 Criteria for assessing chronic toxicity by RTOG / EORTC for selected tissues and organs
Degree

2
non-fitting atrophy,
moderate
telangiectasia, total
hair loss

no
changes

slight atrophy
and dryness

moderate atrophy
and telangiectasia,
dryness

esophagus

no
changes

moderate
fibrosis, light
difficulty
swallowing a
solid diet

inability to swallow
solid food, necessity
of semi-solid,
possible dilatation

CNS

no
changes

slight
headache,
mild lethargy

moderate headache,
pronounced lethargy

no
changes

moderate
diarrhea,
convulsions,
stools 5 times
a day, slight
rectal
discomfort or
bleeding

moderate diarrhea
and colic, stools> 5
times a day, mucus
leakage from the
rectum or
intermittent bleeding

mucous
membranes

intestine

no
changes

3
visible atrophy,
major
telangiectasia
visible atrophy with
complete dryness
of mucous
membranes, severe
telangiectasia
severe fibrosis,
swallows only
fluids, painful
swallowing,
necessary
dilatation
severe headache,
severe dysfunction
(partial loss of
mobility,
dyskinesia)

obstruction or
bleeding requiring
surgery

4

5

ulceration

ulceration

necrosis,
perforation,
fistula

convulsions,
paralysis,
coma

death directly related to chronic radiation toxicity

1
slight atrophy,
pigmentation,
partial hair
loss

skin

0

necrosis,
perforation,
fistula

4.4.2 Signs of radiation toxicity in tissues and organs
Skin
Early skin reaction is referred to as acute radiodermatitis. First, erythema occurs, then peeling begins
(dry desquamation), after the loss of basal layer cells, wet desquamation occurs. The most serious is the
development of an early ulcer, which is often secondarily infected and poorly healing. Late (chronic)
toxicity is manifested months to years after the acute reactions have healed. The skin is atrophic, thin,
dry, sometimes slightly scaly, with telangiectasia, hyperpigmentation, fibrosis to fibrosclerosis of the
hypodermis, temporary or permanent alopecia and epilation. Hair grows again after 1-3 months, the
dose for sustained alopecia is individual. The most severe form of late skin radiation toxicity is chronic
non-healing ulcer with necrosis of the base.
Oral mucosa and mucosa of ENT area
Acute changes manifest as enanthem, edema, exudation, turning into epithelolysis with fibrin coatings,
foci may coincide in confluent mucositis. Acute reactions greater than 2nd degree on mucous
membranes have a typical appearance of so-called speckled reaction. Late changes affect the taste buds
with a gradual loss of taste. Late toxicity in the salivary glands, which is manifested by xerostomy, is
important and changing the quality of life. Due to technical advances, current radiotherapy options
significantly reduce the risk of developing more severe xerostomia.

33

Gastrointestinal system
Acute esophageal reaction is similar to the reaction of mucous membranes of the oral cavity, manifested
by pain in swallowing, pyrosis, esophagitis. Antimycotics, cool milk drinks, antacids, proton pump
inhibitors, prokinetics increasing the tone of the lower esophageal sphincter, or local anesthetics in syrup
form are used in therapy. Late toxicity in the form of stricture occurs rarely. The most sensitive section of
GIT is the small intestine, where even after low doses there is congestion and edema of the mucosa,
negatively affected resorption and acceleration of peristalsis in combination with dysmicrobia result in
the development of diarrhea stools that respond well to Imodia, Reasec and Smectu. Irradiation with
higher doses may cause mucosal ulcerations, which in extreme cases may cause perforation of the
intestinal wall.
Late toxicity affects the mucosal ligaments and intestinal wall, resulting in the formation of stenosis,
fistulae, intraperitoneal adhesions, which may cause a acute abdomen with impaired passage in the
ileum (obstructive, strangulatory). The colon and rectum are organs with slightly higher tolerance to
radiation doses. In the acute phase, toxicity may be manifested in the form of tenesmus, irritable bowel,
more frequent stools and stool urges. A typical example of late toxicity is radiation proctitis usually
manifested 1.5-2 years after termination of RT. The base is inflammatory mucosa, sanguineous, easily
bleeding. The source of bleeding is telangiectasia and ulceration. These circumstances increase the risk
of stenosis or fistula.
The liver is a relatively radiosensitive organ, especially when exposed to high doses, such as stereotactic
radiotherapy, there is a risk of developing RILD (Radiation Induced Liver Disease). This is a manifestation
of toxicity at the borderline of acute and late occurring in patients 3-4 months after termination of RT.
Clinically manifested by weakness, weight gain, hepatomegaly, ascites with or without icterus, elevation
of liver enzymes, especially ALP. In some cases, it can end fatally.
Lungs
Acute toxicity manifests itself in the form of radiation pneumonitis, usually 1-3 months after the end of
irradiation, in the form of cough, fever and shortness of breath masquerading as bronchopneumonia.
Physical finding is poor, only radiological findings will make the diagnosis accurate. X-ray describes multifocal infiltrates or atelectasis or effusion, with changes localized in irradiated terrain. Corticoids,
antibiotics and bed rest are used for treatment. The late consequence of irradiation is fibrosis in the
irradiated volume, which occurs after 6–12 months.
Urogenital system
The radiosensitive tissues include kidneys in which acute toxicity manifests itself in the form of radiation
nephritis. The clinical picture is dominated by anemia, hypertension, albuminuria, pain - lumbalgia and
fatigue. Late radiation toxicity leads to atrophy of the renal parenchyma, glomerulosclerosis and the
development of chronic renal insufficiency. The bladder, on the other hand, is relatively radioresistant.
Acute toxicity is manifested after irradiating the entire volume of the bladder at lower doses, and / or
irradiating smaller volume at higher doses. Patients report dysuric to stranguric problems, urgofrequenct micturition.
Spasmolytics, spasmo-analgesics (Metamizol-Algifen, Novalgin) are usually sufficient in therapy. Acute
toxicity to the mucous membranes of the lower urinary tract decreases resistance to pathogens, which
may lead to a higher risk of developing uro-infect. Therefore, in clinically significant problems, urine
culture examination should not be neglected and if examination is positive, uro-infect should be treated
with appropriate antibiotics. Late radiation toxicity in the bladder region is significant and difficult to
34

manage. It develops especially after radical RT for bladder carcinoma or prostate carcinoma. Typical
manifestations are reduced capacity and frequent or urgo-frequent micturition. Wall atrophy with
formation of telangiectases, superficial mucosal erosions and chronic bleeding. The latter of these side
effects may escalate to haematuria not responding to pharmacological therapy. There is usually no clear
source of bleeding in the cystoscopic image that can be treated. Bleeding is capillary, diffuse from the
area of telangiectases. The condition may result in refractory hematuria, causing severe anemization of
the patient. In such cases, radical cystectomy is an effective treatment modality. Current intensitymodulated radiotherapy (IMRT) methods and precise targeting of image guided RT (IGRT) radiation have
eliminated the late bladder toxicity in practice.
The testes are one of the most sensitive tissues, sterility can occur after irradiation with only 5 Gy.
Supporting Leydig cells are relatively resistant and maintain testosterone production even after
application of higher radiation doses (tens of Gy). In women, permanent sterility can occur after
fractional irradiation of 6-8 Gy, a dose of 20 Gy eliminates even hormonal ovarian production, which has
been widely used in the past for radiation castration (as part of hormone treatment for breast cancer).
Currently, the so-called pharmacological castration by LHRH analogues is more frequently used.
Nervous system
Brain tissue is relatively radioresistant. Acute radiation toxicity may take the form of slight vasogenic
edema, which may manifest in patients with headaches. In the field of postoperative changes, acute
toxicity may increase the threshold of sensitivity to the development of epiparoxysms if they occurred
before the operation. The late toxicity of RT of brain tissue takes the form of white matter radionecrosis,
especially in stereotactic radiotherapy, when very high doses of radiation (> 60 Gy) are administered in a
short time interval to a small, well-defined target of brain tissue. Spinal cord – compared to brain tissue,
the tolerance dose related to the development of late toxicity, ie. myelopathy, is much lower (> 45 Gy).
A symptom of early myelopathy is the Lhermitt's syndrome – feelings of paresthesia (tingling) or
discharges affecting the motorics of the upper limbs when bending the head. The highest degree of
toxicity is incomplete or complete transverse spinal lesion.
Of the sensory organs, the most significant is eye involvement. Eye lenses are radiosensitive and even
small doses of radiation initiate the development of cataracts even several years after irradiation. Higher
doses of radiation (> 50–55 Gy) may cause changes in the retina, cornea or conjunctiva of the character
of macular degeneration, retinopathy with the formation of telangiectases, corneal ulcerations or
conjunctivitis.
Hematopoietic system
Bone marrow is one of the most radiosensitive tissues due to the rapid proliferation of the cellular
population of blood elements. At any given moment, the cellular elements are caught in the different
phases of the cell cycle of cell division, most importantly in the radiosensitive phases (G1-S and G2-M).
This sensitivity to RT is used in the treatment of hemato-oncological malignancies in the so-called
myeloablative whole-body irradiation, when total removal of the bone marrow of the patient before
transplantation is necessary. The dose administered in this case is 12 Gy fractionated at 1.2-1.5 Gy / day.
Toxicity (depletion) of blood elements increases with the volume of irradiated volume. The manifestation

35

is anemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia. After whole-body irradiation, the number of lymphocytes
decreases several hours apart.

4.4.3 Possible ways to affect radiation toxicity
▪ dose level and time factor – the total dose level is related to the onset of early and late reactions;
for early reactions, the duration of irradiation course is important, ie. total duration of treatment.
In the case of late toxicity, meticulous documentation of the dose level and the development of
late effects of RT must be maintained. Reparation of damage may occur over the years, but reirradiation in previously irradiated volume is always risky.
▪ size of irradiated volume – affects early and late reactions; with large irradiated volumes, the
accentation of acute reactions may limit overall treatment, therefore the effort is to minimize the
volume, but not at the cost of insufficient irradiation (in the case of curative treatment).
▪ irradiation technique - number and configuration of fields, covering of healthy tissues,
▪ fractionation – conventional fractionation means 1.8-2.0 Gy per day, 5 days a week;
hyperfractionation (lower dose more often e.g. twice a day at 1.2 Gy at intervals of 6-8 hours)
worsens the development and degree of acute reaction, but does not increase late reactions;
hypofractionation (larger doses less frequently) will reduce the acute reaction but will result in
more chronic reactions; mathematically, this radiobiological fact is described by the LQ model,
which makes it possible to determine equivalent biological doses of different fractionation
schemes according to the alpha / beta ratio,
▪ radiation response modifiers - see above,
▪ treatment regime and general condition of the patient – care of irradiated skin (gentle washing
with water, without cosmetics, airy cotton underwear, no sun exposure), sufficient diet,
supportive treatment to reduce adverse effects so that radiotherapy can be continued (if
radiotherapy is interrupted damaged healthy tissues will repair, but tumor cells will repopulate).

4.5 CLINICAL USE OF RADIOTHERAPY
4.5.1 Curative and palliative radiotherapy
Curative radiotherapy
The intention of curative (radical) radiotherapy is to completely eradicate the tumor and cure the
patient. Therefore, a maximum dose of radiation is applied in order to eliminate it completely taking into
account the radiobiology of the tumor population. The dose level, however, is limited by sensitivity
(tolerance) of surrounding healthy tissues to radiation. A rate of serious complications due to radiation of
less than 5% is acceptable. The curative dose of radiation in most solid tumors is > 60 Gy in 6 weeks.
▪ Primary (independent) radiotherapy – eradicates macroscopic tumor, affected nodes and
potential microscopic disease; it is used in a number of cancer sites with better therapeutic effect
than surgery (lymphomas), better functional effect than surgery (larynx cancer), as an alternative
to surgery (prostate cancer) or where locally advanced tumor is no longer operable (cervical
cancer).

36

▪ Postoperative (adjuvant) radiotherapy – eradicates residual microscopic disease that surgery
cannot remove. Adjuvant RT increases local control or reduces the risk of dissemination (breast
cancer, rectum), the doses administered are lower than those of primary radiotherapy and are
around 50 Gy in 5 weeks.
▪ Preoperative (neoadjuvant) radiotherapy – works on the same principle as adjuvant RT. It is
indicated in preoperative treatment with the intention of tumor downsizing, circumscribing and
enabling operability, elimination of microscopic disease and reducing the risk of tumor cell
spreading during tumor manipulation during surgery. It finds its main application in the therapy of
locally or locoregional advanced tumors (rectal cancer, soft tissue sarcomas), primarily inoperable.
The chances of achieving radical operability increase after RT.
▪ Radiotherapy with concomitant chemotherapy (chemoradiotherapy) – the addition of
chemotherapy to radiotherapy usually has a potentiating effect; shows a slightly higher effect than
radiotherapy alone (but at the cost of higher toxicity).
There are multiple schedules for concomitant chemotherapy, e.g. continuously, once a week, once
every 3 weeks. It is used in a number of tumor sites, whether in the indication of curative – radical
RT-CHT (tumors of ENT, cervix, lung carcinomas, bladder cancer) or neoadjuvant (carcinoma of the
rectum, esophagus) or adjuvant (tumors of ENT, esophagus, rectum, stomach, pancreas, lung,
primary brain tumors, biliary tract tumors)
Palliative radiotherapy
The aim of palliative radiotherapy is to alleviate the symptoms in a situation where the cure of the tumor
is not realistic. Alleviating difficulties of cancer is associated with improved quality of life. In practice, this
means several situations:
▪ Achieving an analgesic effect caused by, for example, tumor infiltration of nerve knitting, skeletal
osteolysis in metastatic affection, tumor ingrowth into the thoracic wall.
▪ Alleviation of lymphedema of limbs caused by blockage of lymphatic drainage by the pathological
packets of lymph nodes - typical localization in pelvis and inguinal, axillary and supraclavicular
regions.
▪ Control of bleeding and anemization in bleeding tumors of the bladder, rectum, anus,
endometrium, cervix, lung or ENT tumors.
▪ Alleviation of dyspnea related to airway obstruction by tumorous infiltration - RT can clear the
main airways, aerate atelectatic segments or lobes of the lung.
▪ Treatment of neurological symptoms – epiparoxysms, cephalea, paresis in metastases affecting
CNS or causing spinal compression.
▪ Treatment of symptoms related to locally advanced tumors in the head and neck area - swallowing
problems, recurrent infections, bleeding, pain.
The total doses used are lower than for curative radiotherapy (usually up to 30 Gy / 10 fractions in 2
weeks or 20 Gy / 5 fractions in 1 week), but do not exceed tolerated doses of risk organs. Tumor
regression is only a secondary effect, as well as affected survival.

37

4.5.2 Planning and performing radiotherapy
The planning and performing radiotherapy takes place in several successive steps, where the information
about the patient, its location, target structures and radiation conditions are transferred in digital form
into the planning software and subsequently into the control system of the accelerator. Radiotherapy is
strictly individual, general conditions are always adjusted for a particular patient.
Immobilization, localization and planning CT
One of the most important factors at the very beginning of radiotherapy planning is the choice of the
optimal patient position. It must be well and easily reproducible; it should not be a problem for the
patient, it should be comfortable for the patient. Tumor localization and the appropriate RT technique at
the irradiation site must be considered when selecting the optimal position. There must be no obstacle in
the irradiated sites (e.g. preventing gantry collision with limbs when rotating around the patient). The
position should also allow visual inspection of the irradiated area while preventing exposure of healthy
tissues or other parts of the body beyond the target volume (e.g. the patient must not have his hands on
his chest in the case of lung tumors or tumors of mediastinum. In such a case, the upper limbs must be
elevated).
Various tumor fixation aids (thermoplastic masks for head and neck fixation, chest and hand pads for
breast tumors, vacuum pads for abdominal and pelvic irradiation, vacuum or foam pads for lower limb
fixation) are used to ensure reproducible positioning. The CT simulator is used to obtain a CT image of
the part of the body that we will be irradiating. The device corresponds to the diagnostic CT, but it is also
equipped with lasers for 3 planes (x, y, z). The patient is imaged in the same position as it will be
irradiated, including immobilization aids. The default coordinates (zero point) for the CT scan are marked
on the skin or fixation devices. The obtained CT image is transferred to the scheduling system. The X-ray
simulator is a fluoroscopic diagnostic X-ray machine capable of imitating radiation conditions. Its
mechanical and geometric parameters correspond to the irradiator. On the X-ray simulator it is possible
to pre-locate the target volume according to bone structures. In addition, it is possible to directly set the
field for simple palliative radiotherapy techniques (e.g. irradiation of the metastases of the skeleton of
the vertebral bodies, pelvis, whole brain RT in metastatic problems). The X-ray simulator does not
replace the planning CT. Therefore, we currently prefer the CT simulator for its versatility.
Radiotherapy planning
Radiotherapy planning is done in a planning system, which is software that can calculate 3D radiation
dose distributions in the patient's body. The calculation is based on a three-dimensional reconstruction
based on individual transversal CT scans. The planning system can take into account differences in
radiation absorption depending on the density of tissues and organs according to the HU units from the
planning CT.
The planning process begins with the contouring of the tumor area (target volume) and risk organs in
individual CT scans. According to the International Commission on Radiation Units and Measurements
(ICRU) recommendation number 50, three basic target volumes are defined.
▪ GTV (gross tumor volume) - macroscopic tumor (visible on planning CT in correlation with clinical
findings, physical examinations and other assistive imaging (MR, PET / CT)). The planning system
can fuse planning CT imaging with diagnostic MR or PET / CT. The definitions of tumor properties
are then very precise.
38

▪ CTV (clinical target volume) - GTV plus margin for potential microscopic tumor spread (we do not
see microscopic disease on CT, but we have evidence that the microscopic tumor spread varies
from a few mm to a few cm depending on histology)
▪ PTV (planning target volume) - CTV plus internal margin and setup margin.
o

Internal margin = margin compensating target volume movements in response to
physiological movements, e.g. lung tumor movements during breathing excursions,
peristaltic waves, different fillings of bladder and rectum during irradiation.

o

Setup margin = patient movements during RT and inaccurate settings during irradiation
series. In practice, the first case may occur in the indication of palliative RT, where it is
more difficult for the patient to tolerate the radiation position because of pain,
lymphedema, dyspnoea. In these cases we are talking about so-called intrafraction
movements. The second case is setup errors, where the accuracy with which the patient is
placed in the irradiated position by the attending staff (radiological assistant) and how the
patient's placement is reproduced every day plays a major role.

It is essential to correct the deviations in the misalignment using the display device on the
accelerator, where X-rays or con beam CT are taken before irradiation and the final position of the
patient is corrected with maximum accuracy. (Note the IGRT principle - see below for imageguided radiotherapy.)
The margin size ranges from approximately 5 mm to a few cm.

The planning process continues by choosing the appropriate radiation technique (see – irradiation
techniques) to try to irradiate the entire volume of PTV with the required dose and to avoid risk organs.
A suitable arrangement and number of fields is selected which can be shaped using a multi-leaf
collimator (MLC) or individual lead blocks. Wedge or compensation filters may be used to modify the
radiation beam. The scheduling software is able to calculate the dose at individual points of the body
according to the density of tissues (HU units) on CT scans (data entered into the program). Therefore, CT
must always be used to calculate the dose. Other imaging examinations such as MRI or PET-CT provide,
in some situations, more accurate information about the tumor and its spread and are thus used to
identify target volumes, see GTV definition above. By fusing MR, PET / CT images with planning CT, the
resulting tumor size is identified with maximum accuracy. The radiation dose is usually specified in the
isocentre, which is approximately in the middle of the irradiated volume. It is normalized to 100% with a
recommended dose variation in PTV of 95-107%. The assessment of the plan is performed using the
dose-volume histogram (DVH), whose curves show the parameters of the irradiated plan - dose
dependence and the volume of irradiated risk organs and, in particular, coverage of the target volume
with the prescribed dose.
Simulation
Simulation means transferring the radiation schedule to the patient. It is performed on a CT simulator
(virtual simulation) or on an X-ray simulator (conventional simulation). The radiation plan created in the
planning system contains the coordinates (x, y, z) of the isocentre. The patient is first set up on the
simulator according to the markings on the skin / fixation devices drawn at the zero point location. This is
usually a cross or lead shot placed on the skin / fixation aid when locating and planning CT.

39

Then, the shift in the x, y and z axes (according to the data in the radiation plan) to zero will focus the
isocentre, ie. the table moves with the patient to the exact irradiated position. The position of the
isocentre is drawn on the patient's skin or fixation devices by new simulation marks, lines that intersect
in individual planes - (lateral, longitudinal, vertical). The position of the coordinate table is stored in the
verification system and shared electronically to the control systems in the treatment rooms. The
accuracy of the isocentre survey is verified by comparing the simulation CT slices with the reference CT
from the planning system. When working on an X-ray simulator, we compare fluoroscopic images of
fields with reference images from a planning system (digitally reconstructed DRR X-rays created from a
planning CT).
Irradiation and verification
At the irradiation facility, the patient is set by laser sights on the skin marks (or fixation aids) to the
desired position. The Linear Accelerator automatically sets radiation parameters for this particular
patient based on data from the verification system. Irradiation will only be triggered when all indicators
match. The images obtained on the irradiator (verification images) are used to verify that the settings
are correct. The images are taken using a small diagnostic dose of braking radiation from the accelerator
head captured on a detector under the patient – so-called portal. The resulting image corresponds to the
X-ray image, however, of much worse quality due to the energy of the radiation used. The skeleton
contours in the thus made image are compared with reference skeletal contours on the so-called DRR
image (digital reconstructed radiograph) of the reconstruction from the planning CT. A newer method is
the OBI (on board imaging) system, which allows to obtain X-ray or CT images in digital form directly
from the accelerator, which are compared with reference images. Any position deviation is corrected by
moving the table to obtain the correct position. The more accurate the patient's settings for each
fraction of the radiation, the less safety margin for PTV we can choose (further saving healthy tissues
around). Radical radiotherapy also includes regular dosimetric control, which provides reliable data on
the delivered radiation dose.

4.5.3 Irradiation techniques
Conventional radiotherapy
Conventional radiotherapy uses a simple configuration of irradiation fields where the irradiated volume
is perceived in one plane, not as a three-dimensional object. The fields can be shaped simply by covering
blocks.
Three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT)
Irradiation technique where the target volume boundaries correspond to a three-dimensional
representation of tumor shape and volume. It appeared along with the introduction of CT into clinical
practice in the 1970s. It allows to irradiate the target volume with minimal safety margin, thereby
reducing the exposure of surrounding tissues and reducing toxicity. This results in the possibility of dose
increase with the aim of higher local control.
Stereotactic radiotherapy (SRT), stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS)
The principle of stereotaxis is to deliver a radiobiologically very high dose of radiation in a short time
horizon in a very small number of fractions. The target volume is usually smaller in size, precisely
defined. In the case of SRS it is the application of 1 fraction. In the case of SRT, usually 3-5 fractions. The

40

efficiency of these modalities is highly local, ie. it can be compared to surgery. It is widely used in the
treatment of acoustic neurinomas, eye melanomas, metastatic lesions, AV malformations, skeletal or
liver metastases. Among the new indications in arrhythmology was the stereotactic ablation of accessory
pathways.
Instruments that perform SRS or SRT are Leksell's gamma knife
and Cyber knife. The radiation dose is delivered to the target
volume from several different directions and planes. The positions
of the radiation source are located on the hemispherical or
spherical surface. In the Czech Republic, SRS and SRT are
performed in the Na Homolce Hospital, which has a Leksell
gamma knife (source of radiation 60Co) and in the University
Hospital Ostrava - Cyber knife (braking radiation X linear
accelerator) (Fig. 4).
Fig. 4 Cyber knife

Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT)
As with 3D-CRT, the beam is shaped, but the intensity of the beam changes across the sagittal line. IMRT
is associated with inverse planning, where the minimum and maximum dose requirements in target
volumes and maximum doses in risk organs are first defined. Priorities are assigned to individual
structures, and the planning system looks for the way and delivery of the dose to the target volumes
accordingly.
It uses individual settings of the optimum beam intensity profile of individual fields. Compared to 3DCRT, IMRT allows for better dose distribution in the required volume with a steep decrease in the dose
delivered into the environment and thus less stress on risk structures. (Fig. 5).
Fig. 5 IMRT technique in prostate cancer

significant saving of rectum - isodosis 100% and 98% completely avoid the rectum

41

Image-guided radiotherapy (IGRT)
It is an essential part of modern radiotherapy and is part of IMRT or 3D-CRT techniques. The technical
capabilities of today's linear accelerators make it possible to deliver a very high dose to the target
volume with maximum screening of healthy tissues – especially using IMRT techniques. However, with
increasing complexity of irradiated fields, modulated beams, "dose bending" and the resulting dose
distribution shapes, high accuracy of dose delivery to target volumes is essential. Even slight deviations
can have serious consequences if the target volume is missed – risk of local relapse or irradiation of
healthy tissues with the development of acute or late toxicity. It is IGRT that allows accurate delivery of
the dose to the target volume. The basic principle of this method is a perfect imaging of the actual tumor
position or target volume just before or during the irradiation and precise correction of deviations in the
patient position. The OBI (on board imager), which is an X-ray tube or a low-dose CT mounted on a linear
accelerator gantry, is used for this imaging. After placing the patient on the table of the linear accelerator
and adjusting it for the marks on the skin, X-ray images of the skeleton are made in 2 perpendicular
projections (AP and side). In the best case, it is possible to carry out a low dose CT called con beam CT
(CB-CT). These OBI images are evaluated in the control room and in case of deviations, the patient's
position is corrected to match the reference position from the planning CT. This minimizes the risk of
erroneous exposure. IGRT is used in conjunction with IMRT and 3D-CRT.
A special variant of IGRT is tumor tracking – irradiation of a moving target. A typical representative is
Cyber Knife, which uses online imaging of the position of X-ray contrast markers inside the tumor during
stereotactic irradiation. Another possibility of IGRT is gating – irradiation only in a certain position of the
tumor. E.g. gating respirators in lung carcinomas located in the lower lobe, where, with respiratory
excursions, large tumor movements occur in the cranio-caudal direction. Irradiation is only performed at
a certain stage of the breath cycle, usually in inhalation.
The same applies to irradiation of the breast only during deep breaths, which can significantly reduce
the dose delivered to the heart and prevent late cardiac toxicity (CHD, AIM, cardiomyopathy).

4.6 BRACHYTHERAPY
While in external radiotherapy the radiation source is at a certain fixed distance from the patient,
brachytherapy is the opposite. It is a technique in which the ionizing radiation source is placed directly in
the tumor region, into close contact with the tumor, or is placed in the tumor bed. Brachytherapy fully
utilizes the physical aspects of radiation dose absorption in the tissue depending on the distance from
the radiation source. As the distance from the source increases, the radiation dose decreases steeply
with the square of the distance (m2). (For example, if the distance between the source and the
irradiation volume increases twofold, the dose will fall fourfold.) In practice, this means that a very high
dose of radiation can be delivered to the tumor in a short span of time while saving surrounding healthy
tissues. Compared to external RT, there is a clear benefit of dose escalation in the target volume and the
saving of surrounding healthy tissues. In the indication of radical treatment of prostate cancer or cervix
cancer, the dose delivered by brachytherapy is several times higher compared to external RT.

42

4.6.1 Physical aspects of brachytherapy
Brachytherapy apparatus
Previously, radioactive needles were used directly or applicators were introduced near the tumor and
radioisotopes were manually inserted into them (manual afterloading). Radium 226Ra was used as the
isotope. The method entailed a certain radiation load for the personnel when handling radiation sources.
From the second half of the 1960s onwards, a method called automatic afterloading began to develop
and is now practically exclusively used. The iridium 192Ir radiation source is usually placed in a special
shielded mobile container, which is located in the brachytherapy hall (Fig. 6). The hall is constructed
similarly to the irradiation room. Shielding, dosimetric inspection and closable doors must meet the
radiation protection criteria. The afterloader functions can be controlled from the remote desktop in the
control room to ensure radiation protection for the personnel.
Fig. 6 Automatic afterloading for brachytherapy

Brachytherapy is an invasive method, therefore it is necessary to insert proximal applicators (needles,
probes, vaginal cylinders and ovoids, endoluminal catheters) near the tumor in the first phase. The
reconstruction of their positions in space (orthogonal X-ray, CT, MRI) follows, and in the planning system,
similarly to external radiotherapy, the irradiation plan is prepared and calculated.
After approval of the plan by a physician and radiological physicist, the afterloader is connected to the
applicators using special plastic connecting tubes. Through these tubes, the radiation source will then
enter the applicators (needles, probes, vaginal cylinders, ovoids, endoluminal catheters) and irradiate the
target volume at given positions calculated in the planning system in accordance with the irradiation
plan. After the wiring and the final check, the patient is left in the brachytherapy room under continuous
monitoring (camera system, visual supervision, vital signs monitor, ...). As soon as the screened door of
the hall is closed, radiation can be started. In the control room, the afterloader is activated via the
control console, and the radiator (192Ir) automatically enters the applicators through the connecting
tubes without the need for staff to be present. At the end of the treatment, the device automatically
ejects the radiation source from the patient's body and places it back in the shielded mobile container.
The radiation load of personnel is thus reduced to a minimum. Brachytherapy with automatic
afterloading means temporary application. The radiation source in the patient never stays permanently,
but only for a certain period of irradiation. It is then retrieved back into the instrument.
However, there is also an indication when the application of radiation sources is permanent. We are
talking about permanent brachytherapy. This indication has found its place in the treatment of localized
43

prostate cancer, where it achieves excellent results and minimal side effects. Compared to radical
surgery, continence and erectile function are maintained in a high percentage of patients. Local control
and overall survival are the same as in radical surgery. This procedure is more demanding technically and
requires manual dexterity, as the radiation sources (125I radioactive seeds) are placed under precise
sonographic control in the prostate position using special application needles. Due to the manipulation
of the radiation source in needles, medical personnel are exposed, but only to a small extent. When
upholding all radiation protection rules, the exposure values usually do not exceed the limits for the
personnel.

Classification of brachytherapy according to dose rate
▪ Low-dose rate (LDR) brachytherapy – dose rate 0.4–2.0 Gy / h, treatment lasts several tens of
hours, usually given in a single fraction. (Permanent BRT prostate cancer 125I.)
▪ High-dose rate (HDR) brachytherapy – dose rate higher than 12 Gy / h, treatment lasts in minutes.
Due to the great strength, it is necessary to administer the dose fractionated to avoid the
development of necrosis or complications in the form of late toxicity. The patient can be treated
on an outpatient basis.
In the present, mainly HDR brachytherapy is used in clinical practice. A short application time is
associated with a high number of advantages (outpatient treatment, better fixation of applicators). LDR
brachytherapy is used especially in the treatment of localized prostate cancer.
Sources of radiation for brachytherapy
Cesium 137 is the most used element for LDR, while HDR uses mainly iridium 192. Permanent
implantation of prostate cancer is performed with sources of iodine 125 or palladium 103. The
therapeutic effect of radioisotopes used for brachytherapy is mediated by γ radiation. Some isotopes
also emit other types of radiation (α, β-, β+), which is filtered out.

4.6.2 Clinical aspects of brachytherapy
Methods of application of brachytherapy
▪ Intracavitary brachytherapy – the applicators are inserted into the body cavities (uterus, vaginal
stump, rectal cylinder),
▪ Intraluminal brachytherapy – applicators are inserted into the lumen of organs (esophagus,
bronchus, biliary tract),
▪ Interstitial brachytherapy (implantation) – insertion of applicators directly into the tumor area
(oral cavity, lip, tongue, breast, soft limb tissue after sarcoma resection, prostate),
▪ Superficial brachytherapy – placement of applicators on the surface of the tumor (skin in the area
of curved surfaces - orofacial area, calva, vertex, auricles).

44

Clinical use of brachytherapy
Curative treatment
▪ Oral and oropharyngeal tumors – interstitial brachytherapy in early tumors at the edge and tip of
the tongue, lip, oral cavity, used in combination with surgery or independently,
▪ Breast cancer – interstitial brachytherapy in combination with surgery and external radiotherapy
to increase radiation dose to the tumor bed area. APB – accelerated partial radiation in a selected
group of patients,
▪ Cervical cancer – intracavitary brachytherapy in combination with external radiotherapy, cures
70% of patients in stage II and 40% of patients in stage III,
▪ Endometrial cancer - intracavitary brachytherapy in combination with surgery or surgery and
external radiotherapy,
▪ Skin cancer - superficial brachytherapy in sites unfavorable for surgical treatment,
▪ Prostate cancer - localized disease has excellent results in median follow-up > 10 years.
Palliative treatment
▪ Lung cancer – intraluminal brachytherapy in bronchial obstruction,
▪ Esophageal cancer – intraluminal brachytherapy in obstruction,
▪ Bile cancer – intraluminal brachytherapy in obstruction.

List of abbreviations
LET
MLC
LQ model
RTOG
EORTC
ICRU
GTV
CTV
PTV
DVH
DRR
OBI
3D-CRT
IMRT
IGRT
LDR
HDR

linear energy transfer
multileaf collimator
linear-quadratic model
radiation therapy oncology group
European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer
International Commission on Radiation Units and Measurements
gross tumor volume
clinical target volume
planning target volume
dose-volume histogram
digitally reconstructed radiograph
on board imaging
three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy
intensity-modulated radiotherapy
image-guided radiotherapy
low-dose rate
high-dose rate

45

5

SYSTEMIC THERAPY OF SOLID TUMORS
Milan Brychta

The treatment of cancer can be divided into local/locoregional and systemic. Surgical and
radiotherapeutic methods belong to the locoregional approaches while chemotherapy, hormonal
therapy, immunotherapy, biologic treatment, radiotherapy in the form of full body radiation, and
supportive treatment belongs to systemic therapy.

5.1 CHEMOTHERAPY
Chemotherapy is one of the basic modalities in the treatment of malignant cancers. In conjunction with
surgical methods, radiotherapy, and hormonal therapy, they form the basic pillars for treatment of
malignant cancers.
The history of chemotherapy, with regards to the usage of chemical substances with cytotoxic effects,
were first written about during the first half of the last century. A breakthrough occurred in the
development of anti-tumor chemotherapy during the 40s of the last century. Paradoxically the
development of chemotherapy can be attributed to the usage of the chemical bis(2-chlorethyl)sulfide
during the First World War in the town of Ypres, when the world first saw the use of the blister causing
chemical weapon called Yperit (mustard gas). As research in chemical warfare continued, the Americans
replaced sulfur in Yperit with nitrogen, which created the chemical chlor alkylamine, still today known as
Nitrogen Mustard (mustargen). Soon after, it was discovered mustargen had the ability to inhibit
proliferation of rapidly proliferating tissues - therefore the potential to inhibit tumor growth. This
chemical soon became the first known agent to be used in the treatment of malignant tumors (as the
preparation Mustargen under the name TS-160). These compounds were still used 20 years ago in the
treatment of Hodgkin's Disease.

The success of chemicals in the destruction of tumor cells led to breakthrough research and
development of novel compounds. This development however is very complicated, as both a timely and
costly process. From tens of thousands of molecules which are tested in research laboratories, it takes
seven to ten years for on to be held in clinical practice.
The difficulty and complexity of research and development of cytostatics with individual phases of
preclinical and clinical stages is shown below in Figure 1. The cost of development of a new compound is
difficult to say, however, one can assume that it is as expensive as the cost of sending a rocket into
space.

46

Synttéza

1-2roky

1-2rokyléku

Fáze 1

Fáze 2

Fáze 3

Přípravný
proces
registrace
léku

Bezpečnost a
farmakokineti
ka

efektivita

Potvrzení
efektivity a
bezpečnosti

50

10

Potenciální Preklinické
hodnocení
kandidáti
in vitro
léčby
in vivo

3

Klinická praxe
Marketing

screening

10 000 molekul
molekul

Život léku

Narození

6-8 let

Medicine authorised

Výzkum
molekuly

Vývoj

1-2roky

1

Fáze 4

•Pharmacovigilance
•kvalita
•bezpečnost a
efektivita

testy bioekvivalence

Výzkum
1-2roky

1 rok
Ochrana dat
10 let

náklady
Patentová
Patentová ochrana
1-3 roky

7-10 let

3

+ 1 rok v
nové
nové
indikaci

12

Preklinický výzkum

0
Identifikace
molekuly

Klinický výzkum

Registrace
Registrace
Patent molekuly

náklady

€

€
SPC 5 let

Patent 20 let

€
generika

Figure 1 Phases of Development of Cytostatics

Chemotherapy has its own irreplaceable spot in the treatment of cancer, it is important however to
use it in the correct circumstances in conjunction with other treatment modalities.
Breakthrough points occurred not too long ago - the discovery of new molecules - which helped to
expand therapeutic potential. This individual milestones are shown in Table 1 below.

Table. 1 Milestones in Chemotherapy
Decade of Last Century
40s
60s
70s
90s
Present
Future

Drug
Nitrogen Mustard, Actinomycin
Antimetabolites
Anthracyclines, Platin derivatives,
Taxanes
Biologic therapy
Gene therapy, Immunotherapy

Cytostatics unfortunately do not have selective effectiveness. From the general point of view,
cytostatics do not differentiate between a healthy cell and a tumor cell. This leads to a limitation of use
due to a number of accompanying unwanted side effects.

47

From the point of view of the mechanism of action, we can divide cytostatics into a few different groups:
1. Compounds leading to inhibition of synthesis of nucleic acids – antimetabolite: purine analogues
– fludarabine, cladribine, pyrimidine analogues – 5 fluorouracil, capecitabine, analogues of
cytidine-cytarabine, gemcitabine, analogues of folic acid – methotrexate, raltitrexed
2. Compounds leading to the disruption of the structure of already created nucleic acids
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)

alkylating compounds: cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, Carboplatin, Carmustin, lomustin,
intercalating compounds: anthracycline – doxorubicin, epirubicin, actinomycin,
inhibitors of topoisomerase I: irinotecan, topotecan,
inhibitors of topoisomerase II: etoposide, teniposide,
radiomimetic: compounds cleaving molecules of DNA – bleomycin.

3. Compounds altering microtubule structure during mitosis
a)
b)

inhibitors of polymerase: vincristine, vinblastine, vindesine,
inhibitors depolymerase: paclitaxel, docetaxel.

4. Compounds disrupting the synthesis of proteins: asparaginase,
5. Compounds with combined effects: procarbazine, dacarbazine, temozolomide, thalidomide.
Chemotherapy is sometimes used as the only (single) treatment choice against cancer, however often
it is used in combination with other treatment modalities (surgical, radiotherapy, hormonotherapy). In
regards to the tolerability of oncological treatment and its side effects, supportive treatment is an
integral part of correctly administered oncological therapy. Most often combined with surgical methods,
chemotherapy is administered in a neoadjuvant (preoperational) setting - for example in carcinoma of
the breast, where after administration of chemotherapy we watch not only systemic effects but also the
reduction of the primary tumor, which leads to easier surgical resection and allows for a breast sparring
operations to occur.
Postoperative chemotherapy, is given after surgical treatment, it can be applied from two treatment
ideologies. It can given be as adjuvant treatment- after successful surgical treatment or as a palliative
treatment, where surgical intervention could not be radical (i.e after discovery of liver metastasis, lymph
or intraperitoneal dissemination). Generalized cancer is incurable, and even after all the breakthroughs
in treatment, it is still not possible to cure this kind of a patient completely. On the other side, there are
diagnoses such as a tumor of the mammary glands, colorectal carcinoma, malignant tumors of the ovary
or testicular tumors, which are possible to treat successfully repeatedly and long term even in stage 4 of
the disease, leading to a phase of complete remission or long term stabilization of the disease. This kind
of stabilization can last for years, but in the end unfortunately, surviving aggressive clones of tumor cells
win the battle against the patient and physician.
Postoperative application of chemotherapy in regards to adjuvant chemotherapy gives patients the
highest chance of survival, or at least a considerable amount of time until the return of the disease. This
type of treatment is used in patients after radical surgical interventions where there is a high risk of
relapse. A high risk of recurrence of a tumor or the possibility of existence of subclinical dissemination,
depends on the accompanying risk factors. These factors are different in each specific disease, however
generally they include the size of the tumor, affection of regional lymph nodes, histological type of the
tumor, and its detailed examination (grading, angio invasiveness, specific histologic markers seen with
immunohistochemistry, for example receptor types, and others). The optimal goal of adjuvant therapy is
48

the survival of the patient without signs of relapse of the disease. In this type of treatment plan, we do
not have any type of clinical correlation to our disposal, which could help us score our effectivity of
treatment because we cannot correctly measure the size of the existing tumor lesion.
Combined chemotherapy, together with radiotherapy is another possibility of how to combine both
treatment modalities. We can utilize sequential or concomitant treatment. Sequential administration is
used in cases where there is a need for both targeting of locoregional (carried out by radiotherapy) and
systemic locals (carried out by chemotherapy). Both methods are carried out individually, with
chemotherapy application being applied first, and radiotherapy applied at the end.
Concomitant treatment, is the application of chemotherapy and radiotherapy at the same time, and
is very difficult to tolerate for the patient. This method is prone to high occurrence of many unwanted
side effects, which are summed up from both treatment modalities. It is often used with regards to
preoperative radiochemotherapy in tumors of rectum or in tumors of the head and neck.
In some cases chemotherapy is applied as single (independent) method, in either goals of total
cure/remission or palliative care.
Curative chemotherapy is used only in highly chemosensitive disease, which include childhood
tumors, hematological malignancies (Hodgkin's disease, non Hodgkin's lymphoma, and other forms of
leukemias) and solid tumors of adult age including choriocarcinoma, testicular tumors, and some ovarian
tumors. During the administration of radical chemotherapy, even severe unwanted side effects are
sometimes tolerated, which can severely decrease the quality of life of the patient in the meantime,
because there is a real chance of complete curative treatment.
Palliative treatment is used in progressed stages of disease where the goal of treatment is not
cure/remission because that goal is not attainable. The goal of palliative treatment is the stabilization of
the disease, push back the commencement of progression, and increase life expectancy. The side effects
of the treatment are acceptable in proportion to the expected effectiveness of the treatment.

Symptomatic treatment (chemotherapy) does not follow the effect of treatment on the size of the
tumor. The goal is the liquidation, and reduction of symptoms which are produced the tumor itself. The
side effects of treatment must be minimal and must not impair the quality of life of the disease during
treatment.
Effectivity of applied chemotherapy is due to three limiting factors :
1. the number of tumor cells and their heterogeneity,
2. chemosensitivity and chemoresistance,
3. general condition of the patient, comorbid diseases.
The number of tumor cells is estimated by the size of the tumor itself. A tumor on the border of
diagnostic capabilities, with a size of 1 cm, is estimated to contain 109 cells. This kind of tumor already
doubled more than thirty times. It is important to note that a tumor with 106 cells can already form
distant metastases. With the increased number of cells, also increases the number of different clones
and their heterogeneity. Heterogeneity of a tumor is most likely the most important factor in the failure

49

of chemotherapy, the existence of only one resistant clone allows for the survival of tumor cells, and the
future progression of the disease.
Chemosensitivity and chemoresistance can be divided as primary and secondary. Primarily, tumor
cells are sensitive to chemotherapy. This sensitivity can change secondarily to a loss of sensitivity
(resistance) during the lifespan of the tumor and therapy (due to activity of the tumor, effect of gained
resistance - multidrug resistance and the effect of applied treatment, when the liquidation of sensitive
clonal cells increases the activity of stem cells changing the sensitivity and resistance).
Chemosensitivity of tumor cells for a given type of tumor.
▪ the 1st group contains highly sensitive cancers including all childhood tumors, hematological
malignancies and solid tumors like choriocarcinoma and testicular tumors.
▪ the 2nd group contains tumors with lower sensitivity to chemotherapy include carcinomas of the
ovary, breast tumors and small cell lung carcinomas.
▪ the 3rd group contains tumors with even lower chemosensitivity including tumors of the
gastrointestinal tract and ENT tumors.
▪ the 4th group contains tumors with the lowest chemosensitivity including tumors of the thyroid,
pancreas, and large cell carcinoma of the lung.
The general state of the patient, age, and comorbidities, direct the intensity of possible oncological
treatment.

Pharmacological knowledge of individual cytostatics is a prerequisite for proper chemotherapy. The
classification of cytostatics according to their mechanism of action is discussed above. Of course, other
knowledge is also necessary, such as the resorption of a cytostatics, its possible binding to proteins and
distribution in the body, its biotransformation, whether anabolic - conversion to active substance, the
active substance, or catabolic - its inactivation. Also it is important to know about excretion of cytostatics
(hepatic, renal routes), because when one of these routes is slowed, the effectivity of treatment would
increase, but sometimes at the cost of toxicity. More details about this information are provided in every
pharmacology textbook and oncology monograph..
The mechanism of action of individual cytostatics suggests that they act on tumor cells only in certain
phases of their dividing cycles (always only in the G1, M phase, never in the G0 resting phase). Tumor
cells are found at different stages of the cell cycle, and so cytostatics are only capable of destroying some
of the cells during its limited activity in the body. For example: antimetabolites act in phase S lasting 2–6
hours, while antibiotics (anthracyclines) act on the G1 - S - G2 phase transition, which is a little longer.
Mitotic poisons (vinca alkaloids and taxanes) act only during certain moments of M phase, which last
around 0,5–2 hours. The longest acting drugs on tumor cells are alkylating compounds which act on
practically the entire duration of G1, which guarantees that the drug acts longest on the tumor cells,
however at the same time it also acts longest on the healthy cells. Thus, they cause the greatest chronic
toxicity in particular, because the greatest number of sensitive hematopoietic stem cells is damaged
permanently. The mechanism of action of cytostatics is shown in Figures 2a and 2b.

50

Figure 2a Mechanism of action of cytostatics from the point of view of cellular division.

Figure 2b Mechanism of action of cytostatics from the point of view of the cell cycle

Prolonging the duration of cytostatic activity in the body increases the number of cancer cells killed,
but it is dangerous in terms of long-term damage to the body. How is it possible to therefore increase the
effectiveness of chemotherapy?
There is a possibility to increase the dose, assuming a higher dose = more cells killed. This is not
absolutely true. The limit however is the time of action of the cytostatic on the phase of the cell and the
percentage of cells in this phase. Another limit is the potential capacity of transport mechanisms and
anabolic activation of the cytostatic. Nevertheless, the efficacy of chemotherapy can be increased by
using different dosage schedules in conjunction with cytostatic dose, more specifically called cytostatic
dose intensity (drug dose / time of action). Dosing of cytostatic regimens is usually monotherapy (one
51

cytostatic used) or polychemotherapy (multiple cytostatics used), and calculated as the drug dose per m2
of body surface area. The second principle of the chemotherapeutic regimen is the time at which the
next dose is to be administered, ie, repetition of the cycle. Dosage intensity can be increased by simply
increasing the dose, or by reducing the interval between each administration or both. In the latter case
particularly, haematological toxicity increases markedly and careful and active supportive therapy is
required.
Individual possibilities of does intensities are shown below:

Standard Dose
Escalation Dose
Dose Dense Schedule
Dose-Intensive Schedule

50mg/ m2
75mg/ m2
50mg/ m2
75mg/ m2

Interval of administration of 3 weeks
Interval of administration of 3 weeks
Interval of administration of 3 weeks
Interval of administration of 3 weeks

Non selective effect of cytostatic chemotherapy causes a host of unwanted side effects, which is due
to the fact that cytostatics kill not only tumor cells but also healthy cells, affecting rapidly dividing cells
the most. Rapidly dividing cells include hematological stem cells of the bone marrow, and dividing cells of
surface mucosal epithelium - most often side effects of cytostatics are hematologic, gastrointestinal, and
infectious. Individual cytostatics have their own specific unwanted side effects, which are common for
each individual compound, and need to be taken into account when utilized. The Figure 3 shows typical
examples of cytotoxic toxicity.
Figure 3 Toxicity of Cytostatics

Toxicity of chemotherapy can be viewed from two points of view - one looking from time, while the
other looking at the organ affected.
52

When looking from the time of onset of side effects we can divide them into immediate onset (hours
to days after applications, i.e, allergic reactions, gastrointestinal problems: nausea, vomiting, diarrhea),
early onset (days to weeks after application: hematological and gastrointestinal ailments, i.e. stomatitis),
delayed onset (weeks to months after application: cardiotoxicity, lung fibrosis, nephrotoxicity,
hematotoxicity, neurotoxicity), and finally, late onset (months to years after application: including liver
cirrhosis, cataracts, and secondary malignancies).
When looking from the point of view of organs affected, the most common side effects are
hematological toxicity (leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia), toxicty of skin and skin adnexa
(alopecia, changes of nails and nail beds, erythema of palms of hands and soles of feet called hand-foot
syndrome), gastrointestinal toxicity (diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, stomatitis), pulmonary toxicity
(interstitial pulmonary fibrosis after bleomycin, cardiotoxicity (anthracycline cardiomyopathy, biologic
therapy – trastuzumab, lapatinib), nephrotoxicity typical after administration of platin derivatives –
cisplatin, cystitis (after application of alkylating agents – cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide), neurotoxicity
(damage to especially sensitive functions – paresthesia with treatment by taxanes, vinca alkaloids,
kapecitabinem and platin derivatives – cis-platin and oxaliplatin), damage to gonads (secondary sterility
after treatment by alkylating compunds) and lastly infectious complications caused by an altered
immune system, hematologic toxicity - neutropenia and gastrointestinal toxicity - stomatitis - disruption
of mucoso-epithelial barrier.
Non Selectivity and toxicity of cytostatic treatment leads to effort to identify new, and safer
molecules, and to an effort to selectively target treatment for a select few of patients, also known as
tailoring. This type of approach or selection of specific treatment is used in a group of patients with the
same diagnosis, who will most profit from the chosen therapy, after which it is further adjusted by dose,
this is the usual second step in modern oncological treatment, which individualizes the therapeutic
approach. In order to select the proper group of patients, we utilize prognostic and predictive factors,
which are different in individual diagnoses. Today, these factors are most often decided on the basis of
histological examination (for example, grading hormonal and growth receptors, angio invasiveness,
mitotic index, and histological subtypes) and biochemical parameters (for example levels of LDH,
hemoglobin, tumor markers). An integral part of such a scoring process is also understandably the
biologic age and state of the patient, previous treatments and their courses, interval from the previous
therapy and any existing comorbidities. It looks like, a large help in the future of tailored treatment will
be gene analysis of these predictive factors, as evidenced by the results of the first studies– analysis of 21
genes (Rotterdam research group) and analysis of 70 genes (Amsterdams group). The use of gene
analysis is currently the only possible alternative to the involvement of gene "manipulation" in the
treatment of cancer. What the future will hold in regards to genes and genomes is not easy to predict at
this time.
Currently we must however use current, and proven knowledge so that we provide chemotherapy
according to recommended principles, which include:
1. assessing the suitability and effectiveness of chemotherapy,
2. performing chemotherapy in multimodal therapy in combination with other treatment
modalities (radiotherapy, surgery, hormone therapy),

53

3. selecting suitable cytostatics or combinations there of,
4. initiate treatment as soon as possible and follow the recommended timing (dosing interval) and
dosing schedules,
5. close monitoring of the patient during therapy for effectiveness and toxicity of treatment,
6. active use of supportive therapy,
7. the choice of alternative chemotherapeutic regimens in the absence of efficacy.

5.2 HORMONAL THERAPY
Hormone Therapy is another of systemic treatment modality used in oncology which acts on a similar
principle as biologic therapy - relying on the presence of specific receptors on the tumor cell (receptor lock) and it interaction with a ligand (hormone - key). The interaction of the lock and key (ligand hormone or pharmacological compound with the receptor) initiates a cascade of information
transmission, whose final result is the proliferation of tumor cells and growth of the tumor. A schematic
of the basic principles of hormone therapy is shown in figure 4 below.
Figure 4 Basic mechanical principle of hormone therapy

Hormone therapy as a method of treatment was first used in the treatment of breast carcinoma in
1896 (the removal of ovaries in a patient with a generalized breast tumor).
The basic condition of successful hormone therapy is the presence of the receptor on the tumor cell
and the basic principle of its effectiveness is either occupation, blocking of the receptor site or causing
the disappearance of a ligand (key) that would stimulate the receptor.
Hormone therapy can only be successfully used in tumor cells with positive presence of the hormonal
receptor. The presence of hormonal receptors in tumor cells is shown below in Table 2.
Tab. 2 Type of Tumor – Hormonal receptors
Type of Tumor
Endometrial Carcinoma
Prostate Carcinoma
Lobular Breast Carcinoma
Grawitz tumor
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Endometrioid Carcinoma of Ovary
Non Hodgkin's lymphoma

Ligand – hormone
gestagens
androgens
estrogens
estrogens
estrogens
FSH, LH
corticoids

54

Clinical Use
yes
yes
yes
no
no
no
no

Clinical data has shown the effectivity of hormonal therapy only in tumors of endometrium, prostate
carcinoma, and lobular breast carcinoma. In other tumors, the effectivity of hormonal therapy and its
therapeutic use has been abandoned.
The principle is to reduce the receptor activity or prevent ligand contact with the receptor. Most
often we use pharmacological compounds, however, to a lesser extent we use surgical procedures and
radiotherapy. An overview is shown in Table 3.
Table 3 Methods of Hormone Therapy
Pharmacotherapy
estrogens
antiestrogens
androgens

Surgical Procedure
castration
adrenalectomy
hypophysectomy

Radiotherapy
castration
hypophysectomy

antiandrogens
gestagens
inhibitors of aromatase
LHRH analogue
glucocorticoids
The pharmacotherapeutic effect of hormone therapy is:
▪ Ablative – elimination of function of an organ producing a ligand- hormone, i.e chemical
castration using LHRH analogue,
▪ Competitive – administration of a competitor with a ligand for receptor contact, i.e.,
antiestrogens or antiandrogens,
▪ Inhibitory – reducing the levels of ligand by blocking its formation, i.e reducing the formation of
strogens with the help of aromatase inhibitors,
▪ Additive – administering high doses of hormones, ligands, leading to blocking of the receptors, i.e.
gestagens, androgens, estrogens.
Hormonal therapy is able to be administered as neoadjuvant, adjuvant, or palliative treatment.

5.3 BIOLOGICAL THERAPY
Biological therapy is synonyms with “targeted therapy” which represents an effort to maximize the
selectivity of cancer treatment, with maximum effort to diversify the intervention – to utilize
characteristics between healthy and tumor cells, eventually identifying different targets in tumor and
healthy cells, so that the maximum effect of was on tumor cells and minimal effect on healthy cells. Its
motto”without a visible target it's not possible to lock on to a goal”. This type of treatment is used in a
large host of malignancies and the number of possible diagnoses and drugs is on the rise. Even though
there are many new possibilities in a number of cancers, where earlier our therapeutic possibilities were
minimal, it is important to note, that the most common indication for biological therapy is in the field of
palliative treatment, where the goal of therapy is not on curing the patient but rather on pausing or
slowing the progression of the disease. The current situation of biological therapies in cancer is shown
below in Figure 5.

55

Figure 5 Schematic of use of biological therapy in malignant tumors
anti EGFR

ORL nádory

trantuzumab (HERCEPTIN), pertuzumab
(PERJETA),trastuzumab-emtansin (KADCYLA)

Ca žaludku

cetuximab (ERBITUX)

Hepatocelulární ca

TK inhibitory

Ca pankreatu

panitumumab (VECTIBIX)

lapatinib (TYVERB)

Ca prsu

Mono AB

sorafenib (NEXAVAR),sunitinib (SUTENT)

Ovarium

erlotinib (TARCEVA)
gefitinib (IRESSA)

afatinib (GIOTRIF)*

PNET
anti VEGFR

Mono AB

Ca kolorekta
Ca prostaty

bevacizumab (AVASTIN)

aflibercept (ZALTRAP)
TK inhibitory

pazopanib (VOTRIENT)

mitotické jedy

regorafenib (STIVARGA)+onkogeneze BRAF a
mikroprostředí)
katuxomab(REMOVAB)ascites

eribulin (HALAVEN)
abiretaron (ZYTIGA) inhibice CYP 17 synteza androgenů
axitinib (INLYTA)
cabazitaxel (JEVTANA)
enzalutamid (XTANDI)-inhibice signální androgenní dráhy
vinfluin (JAVLOR)
trabektidin (YONDELIS)

Sarkomy

pemetrexed (ALIMTA)

antiproliferační
látky
Nádory ledvin
Tumory plic NSCLC
m-TOR

Nádory močového
měchýře

everolimus (AFINITOR)
temsilorimus (TORISEL)
crizotinim (XALKORI) inhibice TK – ALK
imatinib (GLIVEC)

ipilimumab (YERVOY) antiCTLA-4

afatinib (GIOTRIF) multi TK-EGFR*
verumafenib (ZELBORAF),

Melanom

dobrafenib (TAFINLAR)*BRAF

trametinim (MEKINIST)*-MEK

GIST
vismodegib (ERIVEDGE)

Kožní
tumory

interferon alfa

The main current targets of biological therapy are receptors and their complexes on tumor cells epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and vascular endothelial grow factor receptor (VEGFR), but the
number of “targets” is constantly expanding (mTOR, CDK 4/6, PARP, PI3K/Akt BRAF, MEK, ALK).
The principle of targeted biological therapy is to block the transmission of information mediated by
the intracellular pathways, which usually begins with the binding of a ligand to the extracellular portion
of a specific receptor. By this contact, a signal is transmitted to the intracellular portion of the receptor
where, through activation of tyrosine kinase (one of the key enzymes for intracellular transmissions), a
56

cascade of information is transferred, leading to cell proliferation, differentiation, alteration of apoptosis,
angiogenesis, metastasis and chemoresistance is triggered.
Our therapeutic goal are these most targeted receptors – EGFR and VEGFR and their respective
pathways. Our aim is focused at the extracellular domain of the receptor - replacement of the ligand with
a monoclonal antibody, or evening focusing on the intracellular domain of the receptor - blocking
tyrosine kinase activity (TK). Receptor malfunction and activation of alternative intracellular pathways
are the reasons why biological treatments are not absolutely successful. In recent research, the effort to
shift the intervention deeper into intracellular processes in the cell is becoming more promising.
Efforts in selective oncological therapy continues. Currently, at our disposal is the first drug, which
combines biologic and chemotherapeutic modalities- conjugate antiHER2 preparation trastuzumab and
the cytostatic emtansine (mitotic toxin) – preparation Kadcyla used in the treatment of metastatic breast
cancer. More detailed and concrete used of biologic therapy is shown the secretion of specific
oncological malignancies.

5.4 SUPPORTIVE THERAPY
Does not directly affect the survival of the tumor cell. Nevertheless, supportive therapy has its place in
the complex of treatment cancer. The side effects of treatment, particularly chemotherapy, can be so
severe that they can directly endanger the well being and life of the patient, or even influence the
intensity and radicality of the concrete oncological treatment, which can lead to the failure of the
treatment goal, i.e curing of the patient. Supportive therapy aims to prevent, reduce the intensity and
remedy the side effects of the treatment as quickly as possible.
The goal of supportive therapy is to eliminate side effects. The most frequent complications are
haematological, gastrointestinal, infectious and organ complications (pulmonary, cardiac and urinary).
The treatment of hematological complications – decrease of white cells is a typical side effect of
chemotherapy. The appropriate therapy is chosen according to its severity. This can be either
prophylactic, which works by the preventative administration of growth factors for hematopoietic stem
cells G-CSF (filgrastim – Neupogen® and its pegylated form pegfilgrastim Neulasta®) or acute treatment which is aimed at neutropenia, where we administer either G-CSF or corticoids, usually 20–30 mg of
Prednisone daily. After application of corticoids, leukocytes are released into the circulation from the
marrow to the periphery, which quickly solves the acute lack of leukocytes in the blood. However, this is
less gentle compared to physiological stimulation of stem cells with G-CSF and may lead to depletion of
the leukocyte reserve pool in the bone marrow. The application of B-group vitamins is rather a symbolic
act on the border with the placebo effect.
Treatment of gastrointestinal complications is represented by a wide range of measures. Most poorly
controlled is stomatitis after chemotherapy. Stomatitis in the oral cavity can be treated by careful oral
hygiene, application of calming solutions or antimycotics. Therapy of mucositis in the lower parts of the
GIT is even more complicated. Diarrhea is treated with the help of local disinfectants, drugs reducing
intestinal motility, and even control of water and mineral metabolism. Easiest to treat are side effects
including nausea and vomiting - which until recently were the most common side effects of
chemotherapy. The era of setron antiemetics (ondansetron, granisetron, tropisetron and others)
completely changed the course of a number of chemotherapeutic regimens. Prophylactic and curative
57

setron antiemetics in conjunction with corticoids and metoclopramide significantly improved the quality
of life of patients undergoing chemotherapy. A separate chapter is focused on the treatment of nausea
and vomiting.
Leukopenia and neutropenia result in a deterioration of an already poorly functioning immune
system, and when added to the open mucosal barriers in mucositis, a certain amount of infectious
complications during oncological treatment is increased. Further, these infectious complications are
often atypical with minimal contributing symptoms. Consistent prophylaxis and early deployment of
broad-spectrum antibiotics and antivirals is an integral part of supportive cancer therapy.
It is necessary to prevent organ involvement and damage during cancer treatment, as definitive damage
tends to be irreversible and can lead to permanent consequences. To prevent organ damage :
▪ strict monitoring of the functions of organ systems (liver and kidney tests, echocardiography),
▪ not to exceed the cumulative toxic doses known about individual cytostatics and organs (eg
Bleomycin and pulmonary parenchyma, anthracyclines and myocardium),
▪ administration of antidotes (eg application of uromitexan to protect the bladder in holoxan and
high dose cyclophosphamide therapy or calcium folinate in high dose methotrexate therapy,
administration of amifostine to reduce the side effects of actinotherapy and cis-platinum)
▪ administration of protective agents - the only known protective agent in oncology is the
cardioprotective dexrazoxane, reducing the toxic load of anthracyclines on the myocardium
without affecting the cytotoxic efficacy of anthracyclines. Unfortunately, the significance of clinical
use is uncertain and therefore relative.
Correct and consistent use of supportive therapy is important in other treatment modalities as well.

58

6

IMMUNOLOGICAL TREATMENT IN ONCOLOGY
Jan Dvořák

The role of the body's immune system is to protect the host from pathogens and tumors. Properly
configured immune system identifies and removes threats by recognizing foreign antigens while avoiding
damage to its own tissues.
Foreign antigens are molecules recognized as "non-self" derived from pathogens such as bacteria,
viruses and fungi, as well as from tumors. Genetic and cellular changes that characterize cancer cells can
also be recognized as “foreign” by the immune system, resulting in the ability of the immune system to
eliminate cancer cells. The ability to differentiate between normal and abnormal host cells and thereby
detect and destroy abnormal cells can help to prevent cancer.

Properly set immune system
Attack

Tolerance

Foreign
antigen

Own tissue

6.1 ANATOMY OF THE IMMUNE SYSTEM
The immune system consists of various immune organs, cells and tissues.
Primary lymphatic organs

Secondary lymphatic organs and tissue
Tonsils

Thymus
Bone marrow

Spleen

Lymph nodes

59

Modified from Abbas A.K et al. Basic immunology: Functions and disorders of the immune system 2012; Neyt K. et
al. Trends Immunol 2012

6.1.1 Primary (central) lymphatic organs
▪ tissues where lymphocytes are formed and mature.
Thymus: a glandular organ located behind the sternum. T-lymphocytes develop in the thymus from bone
marrow progenitors prior to migration to the body.
Bone marrow: tissue located in the center of long bones. B-lymphocytes develop in the bone marrow
and then migrate from the bone marrow to the body circulation.

6.1.2 Secondary lymphatic organs
▪ tissues where lymphocytes are activated.
Tonsils: they are exposed to pathogens such as viruses and bacteria and then activate the immune
system.
Spleen: stores cells used in immune defense, such as macrophages and white blood cells, which are then
released into the bloodstream.
Lymph nodes: found throughout the body, more numerous in the neck, axilla and groin. Extracellular
fluid from organs and tissues moves into the lymph nodes through the lymph vessels. In lymph nodes,
the lymphatic fluid is filtered, all detected antigens lead to activation of the immune system.

6.2 CONGENITAL AND ADAPTIVE (ACQUIRED IMMUNITY)
The immune system includes two types of immunity, congenital and acquired.

Immune system

Innate immunity
(non-specific response)

External defense
Skin, hair
Bronchial mucus
Digestive enzymes in
stomach and
intestines

Acquired immunity
(specific response)

Internal defense
Inflammatory
response
Complement
proteins
Phagocytic cells

Humoral response
Mediated by
antibodies produced
by B cells

Cell response
mediated by cytotoxic
cells

Memory cells provide defense
against further encounters

60

Adapted and modified from Murphy K. et al. Janeway’s Immunobiology 2012; Abbas A.K. et al. Basic immunology:
Functions and disorders of the immune system 2012; Chen D.S. et al. Immunity 2013; O’Donnell-Tormey et al.
Cancer and the immune system: the vital connection 2016

6.2.1 Innate immunity
▪ First line of defense, present in all individuals from birth.
Basic characteristics:
Rapid response: occurs within 0-12 hours after antigen challenge.
Limited specificity: the same reaction is applied to a wide range of antigens.
Limited diversity: detects a limited number of germline-encoded antigens.
No memory: next exposures generate the same response.
Basic components: Physical (e.g. skin and mucous membranes) and chemical barriers (e.g. stomach acids
and lysozymes)

Inflammatory mediators and complement
Cells of innate immunity such as macrophages, neutrophils, dendritic cells, and natural killer cells (NK
cells).
Macrophages: present in all tissues, they can move between blood vessels and tissues. Their key role is
phagocytosis. They are activated by the binding of pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMP) to
the Pattern Recognition Receptor (PRR) on the macrophage.
NK cells (natural killer cell) develop in the bone marrow and circulate in the blood. They can induce
apoptosis and cell lysis using perforin. They are called "natural killer" because they do not require
activation, only recognize and destroy cells infected with a virus or tumor cells. These infected or tumor
cells have altered class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) on the cell surface. NK cells recognize
and kill cells that do not express MHC Class I.
Dendritic cells: develop in the bone marrow. We distinguish two types of dendritic cells, immature and
mature DC. Immature DCs are found in tissues and blood and mature DCs in lymph nodes. The role of
dendritic cells is phagocytosis and presentation of antigens. Then, when the PRR (Pattern recognition
receptor) on immature DC recognizes PAMP, the antigen is phagocytosed. After maturation, the antigen
is presented on the cell surface by MHC complexes. Dendritic cells play a key role in the interaction
between innate and adaptive immunity.

6.2.2 Acquired (adaptive) immunity
Usually leads to permanent immunity. It occurs only in vertebrates and develops from time of birth when
an individual is exposed to new antigens.
Basic characteristics of acquired immunity:
Slower response than innate immunity: the time required for the onset of an immune response is usually
4 to 7 days. Specific: targeted to specific antigens that induced it.
Diverse: the ability to detect a wide range of antigens, virtually any foreign molecule.
Memory: Subsequent exposure to the same antigen induces faster and more enhanced reactions.
61

Basic components
Lymphocytes are a key component of adaptive response.
Humoral immunity is mediated by antibodies produced by B lymphocytes (B cells). It is the primary
protection against extracellular pathogens (eg bacteria and circulating viral particles). The mechanism of
elimination works through circulating antibodies that bind and neutralize antigens and enhance foreign
antigens phagocytosis.
Cell-mediated immunity is mediated by T lymphocytes (T cells). It is the primary protection against
intracellular pathogens (eg viruses and fungi) and cancer. The mechanism of elimination involves the
activation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes which, after direct contact with the cells having the target antigen,
cause targeted cell lysis and death.
T cells: develop in the thymus and are activated in secondary lymphatic organs such as the spleen and
lymph nodes. T cells differentiate into a number of effector T cell types that have three main functions:
killing (cytotoxic T cells), activation (helper T cells), and regulation (regulatory T cells). The T-cell receptor
(TCR) recognizes an antigen in the form of a peptide bound to a major histocompatibility complex (MHC)
molecule on the surface of antigen-presenting cells (APC). APCs express three signals for T cell activation:
1) peptides: MHC complex -TCR, 2) costimulatory molecules (B7.1 and B7.2), and 3) cytokines. Activated
T cells proliferate and differentiate into effector T cells: cytotoxic T cells (CD8 + T cells) that kill target
cells, helper T cells and regulatory T cells (CD4 + T cells), which play a key function in activation and
regulation of the immune system.
B cells: Develop in the bone marrow and are activated in secondary lymphatic organs such as the spleen
and lymph nodes. They produce antigen-specific antibodies that neutralize antigens and label antigens
for phagocytosis. B-cell receptors (BCRs) are membrane-bound antibodies that recognize different
antigens. BCR internalizes and degrades the antigen and provides the first signal for B cell activation. The
antigen then returns to the surface of B cells bound to MHC class II molecules, where it is recognized by
antigen-specific CD4 + T cells that supply a second activation signal. Activated B cells undergo mutations
and selection for cells with a higher affinity antibodies resulting in plasma cells secreting high affinity
antibodies and memory B cells.

6.3 PHASES OF IMMUNE RESPONSE
Table 1 shows type-phase of the immune response and the duration of the response, and Table 2
contains in detail phases of adaptive response.
Tab. 1 Typ phases of immune response
Phases of immune response

Duration of response

PRR receptors on cells of the innate
immune system recognize common First answer:
features of foreign pathogens and
It starts minutes after
Innate immune response
damaged or mutated tumor cells:
exposure to the antigen and
Result: inflammation, complement
lasts for several days
activation and phagocytosis
APCs of the innate immune system, particularly dendritic cells,
interact with cells of the adaptive immune system, leading to their proliferation and differentiation
Acquired-adaptive immune
It involves two major types of
Secondary response is
62

Phases of immune response
response

Immunological memory

lymphocytes having cell surface
receptors capable of recognizing a
single specific antigen
Memory B and T cells provide
protection against reinfection as a
result of an adaptive immune
response

Duration of response
initiated when the innate
immune system is unable to
eliminate the foreign
antigen or pathogen
Lifetime response
It starts days to weeks after
the initial identification of
the foreign antigen

Tab 2 Phases of adaptive immune response
In the first phase, antigen presentation is initiated. The most important antigen-presenting cells are
macrophages, dendritic cells and B lymphocytes.
In the second phase, lymphocytes are activated by stimulating factors produced mainly by antigenpresenting cells (APCs). These factors include MHC - TCR complex, costimulatory molecules and
cytokines. T cell clonal expansion and differentiation occur. CD4 + T cells differentiate into different types
of effector cells (Th1, Th2, Th17, Tfhelp, Threg). Activated B cells undergo mutations with development
to plasma cells and highly specific memory B cells.
In the third phase, there is a cell-mediated immune response against intracellular pathogens such as
viruses and tumor cells that exhibit tumor-specific antigens. CD8 + cytotoxic T cells, which interact with
MHC class 1, release cytotoxic granules with effector molecules (perforin, granzymin, granylsin). The
humoral immune response results in secretion of antigen-specific antibodies by plasma cells and
destruction of extracellular pathogens found in the blood.
In the fourth phase, apoptosis occurs. Once target antigen is eliminated, there are several
mechanisms for inhibiting the immune response to protect healthy cells. Immune checkpoints ensure a
reduction in the regulation of the immune response to protect its own healthy tissue. Regulatory T cells
(Treg cells) suppress T cell response to reduce the immune response and prevent autoimmunity. Treg
63

cells express CTLA-4 on their surface, that compete with B7, expressed on the surface of APC, thus
preventing adequate stimulation of naive T cells by CD28. Inactivated T cells are removed by
programmed cell death (apoptosis). Immune checkpoints are pathways in the immune system that are
critical for modulating immune response and prevent autoimmunity and minimize collateral damage.
Immune control sites ensure an appropriate magnitude of the immune response. Nowadays the
influence of these checkpoints is used in immunological treatment of tumors.
In the fifth phase, “immunological memory” occurs. After the immune response, most antigens of
specific T cells and B cells die. However, a small number of cells are converted to memory cells. This is a
key characteristic of adaptive immunity. Memory cells exist in a state of readiness and have the ability to
proliferate rapidly. Memory T cells are found in peripheral tissues and non-lymphoid tissue. Memory B
cells are found in the spleen, lymph nodes, and circulate in the blood. Thanks to their increased affinity,
memory cells have the ability to respond to lower doses of antigens compared to naive T and B
lymphocytes.
Acquired - adaptive response - summary

6.4 ANTI-TUMOR IMMUNE RESPONSE
Genetic and cellular changes in tumor cells are recognized by the immune system as if it was a foreign
cell organism:
▪ Tumor-associated antigens - shared antigens, overexpressed in cancer.
▪ Neoantigens- tumor-specific immunogens arising from genetic mutations during oncogenesis.
T cells directed against the tumor are capable of killing tumor cells.

64

The anti-tumor immunity cycle consists of 7 consecutive steps providing an anti-tumor immune
response. For the anti-tumor immune response to kill tumor cells, all steps of the cycle must be
completed.
Interruption of the cycle at any step leads to inhibition of T-cell activity and contributes to
tumorigenesis.
Activation of tumor-directed T cells requires several processes:
1. Release of tumor antigens. Tumor antigens are released during oncogenesis and captured by
dendritic cells.
2. Presentation of tumor antigen. Antigens are transported to the lymph nodes where they are
presented to T lymphocytes.
3. Preparation and activation. Presentation of antigen by dendritic cells to T-lymphocytes, activation
of T-cells. Activation is regulated by a number of anti-tumor immune response checkpoints.
4. Transport of T cells to tumor. Activated T cells travel through the blood vessels from the lymph
nodes to the tumor site.
5. T cell penetration into the tumor. Activated T cells penetrate the tumor microenvironment
through blood vessels - the process involves rolling and adhesion to the endothelium.
6. T-cell recognition of tumor cells. Activated T lymphocytes recognize tumor cells - binding of TCR to
the antigen-MHC-I complex.
7. Killing of tumor cells. The killing of tumor cells leads to the release of additional antigens → reinitiating the anti-tumor immune response cycle
Failure in the anti-tumor immune response cycle results in a tumor hiding from the immune
surveillance
1. By preventing tumor cells from being killed by T cells,
2. By blocking the penetration of T cells into the tumor and subsequent killing of the tumor cells,
3. By blocking the formation and activation of T cells, their penetration into the tumor and the killing
of tumor cells.
There are 3 immunological tumor phenotypes, which can cause an error in the anti-tumor immune
response cycle: a phenotype "without inflammatory infiltration", a phenotype "with infiltration of tumor
periphery" and a phenotype "with inflammatory infiltration". Each immune phenotype requires specific
T-cell activity to restore the anti-tumor immune response. The individual phenotypes can overlap each
other.

6.5 TREATMENT
Currently, several mechanisms - groups of substances - are used in clinical practice:
1. Interferons – Interferon α2a-.It is used for melanoma treatment, renal tumor treatment.

65

2. CTL4 A (cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4) inhibitory checkpoint inhibitors. These are
antibodies against the receptor (anti CTL4 A). In practice, ipilimumab and tremelimumab are used
in the treatment of melanomas.
3. Inhibitors of inhibitory checkpoint PD (program death). These are antibodies against the receptor
(anti PD) or against the ligand (anti PD-L1). Represented by nivolumab and pembrolizumab (anti
PD), atezolizumab, avelumab, durvalumab (anti PD L1). Used in malignant melanoma, lung cancer,
renal cancer, bladder cancer, head and neck cancer, Merkel cell cancer, and others. In the Czech
Republic, these drugs are now being reimbursed by a state health insurance in indications: renal
cancer, melanoma and some lung cancer.
4. Dendritic cell vaccines– (sipuleucel T, rarely in prostate cancer).
5. CAR-T lymphocytes – T cells modified by the chimeric antigen receptor (used in hematological
tumors).
2018 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was awarded to James P. Allison and Tasuku Honjo for
discovering cancer treatment by "inhibiting negative immune regulation".

6.6 CONCLUSION
The role of the immune system is to protect the host from pathogens and cancer by identifying and
eliminating “non-self” antigens while avoiding affecting damage to healthy "self" tissue.
The immune system provides two types of immunity: innate and acquired.
Innate is rapid but non-specific reaction. Acquired - adaptive reaction is slower but highly specific. It is
mediated by lymphocytes that provide two types of response: cell-mediated immunity (T-cells),
antibody-mediated or humoral immunity (B-cells). Adaptive immunity results in immunological memory,
important for a faster and more efficient response to the same antigen in the future.

66

7

NAUSEA, VOMITING
Lenka Rušínová

Nausea and vomiting are relatively common and severe symptoms in cancer patients, which in most
cases are accompanying anticancer treatment or arise in connection with the tumor itself.
Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting are among the most common adverse effects of cytostatics
and may significantly affect patient´s quality of life and compliance with other cancer treatments. The
aim of modern anti-cancer therapy is to prevent nausea and vomiting, not to treat these adverse effects
after they appear.

7.1 PATHOPHYSIOLOGY
Nausea is defined as a subjective discomfort accompanied by vegetative manifestations such as
paleness, sweating and salivation. Vomiting is a sudden, nerve-controlled oral excretion of the chyme
from the stomach or duodenum, caused by convulsive contractions of the abdominal and diaphragm
muscles.
The vomiting center is located in the medulla oblongata, which receives stimuli from:
▪ upper digestive tract,
▪ chemoreception trigger zones in area postrema at the bottom IV. cerebral ventricles,
▪ vestibular apparatus,
▪ higher levels of the brain, including the cortex.

Cytostatics and their metabolites induce vomiting by stimulating the chemoreceptor zone in the
central nervous system, but also by stimulating peripheral receptors. The chemoreceptor trigger zone is
rich in dopamine D2 receptors and serotonin 5-HT3 receptors, which are also found at high
concentrations in the afferent nerve endings of the vagal nerve in the intestine. Other emesis-affecting
receptors include neurokinin, histamine, cannabioid, and opioid receptors, which are located in the
vomiting center and also in the vestibular apparatus.
Various causes may contribute to the onset of nausea and vomiting in cancer patients, not just the
adverse effects of cancer therapy plays its role. Often more than one cause of discomfort can be
identified in one patient. Causes of nausea and vomiting in cancer patients:
▪ gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal obstruction, gastric evacuation disorder, hepatomegaly,
▪ metabolic: hypercalcaemia, hyperglycaemia, hyponatraemia, infection, uraemia, hepatic failure,
▪ drugs: cytostatics, opioids,
▪

radiotherapy,

▪ central causes: increase in intracranial pressure when the central nervous system is affected
(morning vomiting without nausea),
▪ psychogenic: anticipatory before the next cycle of chemotherapy,
▪ chronic in advanced cancers.

67

Repeated vomiting can have serious consequences for the patient, leading to fluid loss,
hypochloraemia, hypochloraemic alkalosis, hypokalaemia, dehydration, reduced food intake.

7.2 NAUSEA AND VOMITING INDUCED BY CHEMOTHERAPY
7.2.1 Types of nausea and vomiting
Regarding the time when chemotherapy started, we distinguish several types of nausea and vomiting.
Acute vomiting occurs within 24 hours of chemotherapy start, may occur soo- right after initiation of
cytostatic therapy or later – with several hours delay. Is mediated by sudden release of serotonin due to
cytotoxic drugs and its binding to serotonin receptors both in the gastrointestinal periphery and in the
chemoreceptor trigger zone.
Delayed vomiting occurs 2 to 5 days after the administration of cytostatics, especially after cisplatin,
carboplatin, doxorubicin treatment. The efficacy of serotonin receptor blockers in delayed vomiting is
substantially lower, with corticosteroids, neurokinin receptor blockers or dopamine receptor blockers
being more effective for prevention and treatment.
Anticipatory nausea and vomiting develop before the cytostatic administration in connection with
previous negative experience with chemotherapy, and the incidence increases with continued cycles of
chemotherapy. Benzodiazepines are used in therapy of anticipatory nausea and vomiting for its effects of
causing amnesia for cytostatic administration. Breakthrough vomiting occurs despite optimal antiemetic prophylaxis. Refractory nausea and vomiting persists even after „rescue“ antiemetic treatment.

7.2.2 Emetogenicity of cytostatics
The emetogenicity of anticancer treatment depends on the emetogenic potential of the individual drug
and its dose, and on the individual risk factors of the patient. The high risk group are considered
cytostatics inducing vomiting in more than 90% of patients without anti-emetic prophylaxis, moderately
emetogenic cytostatics are leading to vomiting in 30% to 90% of patients, while low emetogenic
cytostatics in only 10% of patients. Combined chemotherapy is more emetogenic than administration of
a single cytostatic.
Emetogenicity of routinely used intravenous anticancer drugs:
▪ high (risk of emesis 90%): cisplatin, high-dose cyclophosphamide,
▪ moderate (30-90% risk of emesis): anthracyclines, ifosfamide, irinotecan, carboplatin, oxaliplatin,
▪ low (risk of emesis 10–30%): docetaxel, etoposide, flourouracil, gemcitabine, paclitaxel.
Individual risk factors affecting the emetogenicity of cytostatics include gender, age, psychological
condition, previous drug induced vomiting, kinetosis, abusus of any kind. Vomiting after chemotherapy is
more common in younger patients, especially women or patients with anxiety. On the other hand, there
is a lower incidence of vomiting in the elderly and in those who regularly consume alcohol.

68

7.3 TREATMENT OF NAUSEA AND VOMITING
Nausea and vomiting can be treated or prevented by drugs called antiemetics that block the brain
centers responsible for controlling vomiting and involved receptors in the gastrointestinal tract.
Antiemetics have the highest effect when given preventively, therefore, from the beginning of the first
cycle, strong antiemetic prophylaxis based on the emetogenicity of chemotherapy is recommended.
There are several types of antiemetics that differ in their mechanism of action and spectrum of adverse
effects.

7.3.1 Setrons
Setrons are antagonists of 5-HT3 receptors in the central nervous system in the chemoreceptor trigger
zone and in the gastrointestinal tract at the nerve endings of the vagus nerve. They play a dominant role
in the prevention and treatment of acute vomiting. Oral administration of the recommended dose is
equivalent to intravenous form in efficacy and toxicity. The addition of corticoids improves the
effectiveness of the antiemetic treatment regime containing setrons. They do not have a greater effect
than corticoids or prokinetics against delayed vomiting. The most common adverse effects are headache,
constipation, QT prolongation and induction of arrhythmia.
The 1st generation of setrons include ondansetron and granisetron, the more modern setrons of 2nd
generations (palonosetron) have a high affinity for 5-HT3 receptors with an effect lasting up to 5 days and
a lower risk of QT prolongation.

7.3.2 Antagonists of neurokinin receptors NK1
Neurokinin receptor antagonists NK1 are inhibitors of the action of substance P on NK1 receptors
(neurokinin receptors 1), which are abundantly expressed in the area postrema at the bottom of IV.
cerebral ventricles and medulla oblongata. Unlike setron antiemetics, they significantly reduce the
incidence of delayed vomiting and nausea. Because of their different mechanism of action, they
desirably complement the antiemetic combination of 5-HT3 receptor blockers with corticosteroids.
Neurokinin receptor inhibitors are moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 - thus have the potential to interact
with drugs that are metabolised by this enzyme. They are administered orally (aprepitant, netupitant)
and have a long half-life. In fixed combination with palonosetron, one tablet is given for the entire
chemotherapy cycle.

7.3.3 Corticosteroids
The mechanism of antiemetic action of corticosteroids is not well known, their anti-oedematous effect or
inhibition of prostaglandin production might be exerted. In antiemetic prophylaxis, corticosteroids
increase the effect of setrons, but they also have a significant effect in preventing delayed nausea and
vomiting. Hyperglycaemia is a typical adverse effect that occurs even in short-term use of corticosteroids
as antiemetics. Dexamethasone is often used orally or intravenously in antiemetic prophylaxis and
therapy.

69

7.3.4 Dopamine D2 receptor antagonists
Dopamine D2 receptor antagonists affect peripheral dopamine receptors in the intestine and central
receptors in the CNS, and therefore may induce extrapyramidal symptoms, especially in geriatric patients
or when co-administered with neuroleptics. The most commonly used drug is metoclopramide,
belonging to the group of prokinetics, which, besides inhibition of dopamine receptors, boost the
motility of the upper part of the digestive tube, including gastric emptying. In addition to antipsychotic
and sedative effects, neuroleptics, which mainly affect central dopamine receptors, have an antiemetic
effect. The most important substances of this group are thiethylperazine, haloperidol.

7.3.5 Benzodiazepines
Benzodiazepines do not directly have an anti-emetic effect, but affect the patient's anxiety and
potentiate the effect of setrons. They may cause amnesia for the administration of cytostatics, which is
favorably used to prevent anticipatory vomiting - Alprazolam.

7.4 NAUSEA AND VOMITING IN RADIOTHERAPY
Adverse effects of radiotherapy also include nausea and vomiting, especially in the case of irradiation of
the head and the upper abdomen, but also in the case of irradiation of larger areas of body.
Emetogenicity is also strong when higher single dose of radiation therapy is applied. Prophylactically, the
antiemetic treatment is administered before each dose of radiation therapy.
When irradiating the upper abdomen and craniospinal axis, the risk of emetogenicity is in the range of
60-90%. In such high risk of emetogenicity antiemetic prophylaxis in the form of setrons is indicated
possibly in combination with dexamethasone. Radiotherapy in areas of the chest, pelvis, cranium or head
and neck is associated with a 30-60% risk of nausea and vomiting. Ondansetron or a dopamine receptor
antagonist is administered in such case.

70

8

PAIN MANAGEMENT
Marie Fischerová

8.1 DEFINITION AND CLASSIFICATION OF PAIN
Pain is an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue
damage, or is described by the terms of such damage. Pain is always subjective. Adequate pain
management has an key effect on patient comfort and mood, quality of his life and improves treatment
adherence. Untreated pain can lead to reduced mobility or even immobility, anorexia, malnutrition,
cachexia, social dysfunction and isolation.

A classification of pain based on the prevailing pathophysiological mechanism
▪ Nociceptive somatic pain
Is caused by an irritation of nerve endings (nociceptors) at the site of tissue damage. Usually well
localized at the site of injury (bone pain, soft tissue tumors, exulcerated skin tumors).
▪ Nociceptive visceral pain
Is pain caused by an infiltration, compression, constriction or distension in abdominal and lesser pelvis
organs. It is usually not specifically localized, sometimes also called transmitted pain (tumor affecting
pancreas, intestines, liver, urinary tract).
▪ Neuropathic pain
Is caused by a damage to the peripheral or central nervous system. Other sensomotory disorders
(compression or infiltration of nerve roots, nerve plexuses, spinal cord, axonal damage after
chemotherapy - polyneuropathy) are also common.
▪ Mixed pain
Has the properties of nociceptive and neuropathic pain (a tumor in a lesser pelvis growing into bones,
muscles and destroying nerve plexuses).

A classification of pain based on the duration
▪ Acute pain
Lasts less than 3 months and usually resolves completely after injured tissue heals (postoperative pain,
mucositis after chemoradiotherapy).
▪ Chronic pain
Pain lasting more than three months, in prolonged pain vegetative and psychological changes occur.
▪ Episodic (breakthrough) pain
Pain exacerbation episodes in a patient with otherwise moderate pain.

71

Namely:
▪ pain at the end of a drug dose interval - occurs in the last hours before the next dose
administration. Is considered a manifestation of an inadequate drug dosage - insufficient dose or
insufficient length of a dose interval,
▪ incidental pain - caused by a specific factor - eg. cough, movement,
▪ breakthrough pain without any known cause.

8.2 ASSESSMENT OF PAIN
Major requirement for a successful treatment of pain is a clarification of the cause of pain and its
relationship to an ongoing cancer.
Components of the pain examination are:
▪ detailed clinical examination,
▪ complex history taking with focus on type of pain, time course of pain, intensity of pain,
▪ physical and neurological examination,
▪ in some cases also laboratory testing and imaging testing.

8.3 PAIN EVALUATION
The principle is to express complex experiencing of pain in an aggregate value.
Tools used:
▪ visual analogue scale (VAS) - a line from 0 to 10, where zero is the pain-free state and the 10 most
severe pain the patient can imagine,
▪ numerical pain scale (NRS) - a patient assigns a number to the pain intensity, usually 0-10,
▪ verbal pain scale - a patient evaluates pain and selects from offered categories, usually- none,
mild, moderate, strong, intolerable,
▪ pain diary - a patient regularly records the current state of pain during the day,
▪ Brief Pain Inventory - multidimensional tool for research purposes.
In hospitalized patients, a daily record of pain is established in the nursing documentation as well as in
the doctor's rounds records.

8.4 GENERAL PRINCIPLES IN CANCER PAIN MANAGEMENT
Pain management is a part of complex cancer treatment.
▪ causal treatment, which is based on the use of anticancer treatment procedures to remove or
reduce the tumor size (surgery, chemotherapy, biological therapy, radiotherapy),
▪ symptomatic treatment - influencing the formation, management and processing of painful
stimuli (pharmacological treatment)

72

8.5 PHARMACOTHERAPY OF PAIN
Choice of the right approach is based primarily on a patient's pain intensity data and the character of his
pain.
Determining tool is a three-step WHO analgesic ladder for cancer pain relief.
I. step – mild pain
NSAIDs

II. step – moderate pain
Weak opioids
+/- non-opioid analgesic

+ / - co-analgesics

III. step – severe pain
Strong opioid
+ / - non-opioid analgesic

In intense acute pain, parenteral analgesics should be used, otherwise non-invasive analgesics are
preferred. In acute pain, we apply the step down procedure.
▪ Combination of non-opioid analgesics with opioids has an additive effect.
▪ Combination of analgesics with co-analgesics depending on the character of pain has an additive
effect (paracetamol with NSAIDs)
▪ We do not combine different NSAIDs for the increased risk of adverse effects.
▪ We individualize analgesic treatment, monitor the effectiveness of treatment and check for
adverse effects.
▪ An occurrence of adverse effects is not a reason for discontinuation of analgesic therapy, but a
reason for treatment and addressing of these reactions.
NSAIDs
Indicated in the treatment of nociceptive somatic and visceral pain in monotherapy or in combination
with opioids. NSAID have defined maximum daily dose, its exceeding does not lead to an enhanced
analgesic effect but increases the risk of adverse effects.
NSAIDs are very effective and well tolerated. CAVE risk of NSAID caused gastropathy, GIT bleeding the risk is increased in the presence of peptic ulcer disease, in patients over 65 years of age, when coadministered with corticosteroids, anticoagulants, other NSAIDs and in higher NSAID doses. The risk can
be reduced by concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors (always indicated when NSAIDs
with high risk of GIT bleeding are used). Renal and cardiac toxicity of NSAIDs more common in cardiac
and dehydrated patients.
Onset of action,
routes of
administration
Analgesics – antipyretics
Substance (brand
name)

Max. daily
dose

Paracetamol
(Panadol,
Paracetamol,
Paralen, Paramax...)

30 min
p.o, p.r

4x 1 000
mg

Metamizol
(Metamizol, Algifen,
Novalgin, Analgin)

30 min
p.o, i.v

6x 1 000
mg

Note

At higher doses and in patients with chronic
hepatopathies, the risk of hepatotoxicity.
Usually safe in patients with liver metastases.
At doses above 2 g / day affects INR in patients
treated with warfarin.
Spasmolytic effect
Contraindicated in patients with leukopenia or in
risk of agranulocytosis.
When used regularly, INR affects patients treated
with warfarin.
73

Onset of action,
routes of
administration
COX -2 nonselective NSAIDs
Ibuprofen
(Apo–Ibuprofen,
15-20 min p.o
Dolgit, Ibalgin,
Ibumax...)
Diclofenac
(Almiral, Apo–Diclo, 30 min
Dolmina, Veral,
p.o, p.r, i.m, i.v
Voltaren...)
Naproxen
(Etrixenal, Nalgesin, 2 h p.o
Naproxen)
Substance (brand
name)

Indometacin

60 min p.r

Ketoprofen
p.o
(Ketonal)
COX -2 selective NSAID
Nimesulid (Aulin,
Nimesil, Mesulid,
60 min p.o
Nimed)

Max. daily
dose

Note

4x 600 mg

GIT sparing

3x 50 mg

Dose of 50 mg comparable to Ibuprofen 400 mg,
moderate risk of GIT bleeding, high cardiovasc.
risk

2x 500 mg
2x 100 mg

High risk of GIT bleeding, relatively frequent also
other CNS A.E. (vertigo, ceflea, nausea)

3x 100 mg

High risk of GIT bleeding

2x 100 mg

Wel tolerated by patients

Opioid analgesics
Weak opioids
A common feature is the presence of a clinically significant ceiling effect. Starting from a certain dose, a
further increase in the dose results in a very small increase in the analgesic effect. Adverse effects
include constipation, sedation and respiratory depression may be intensified by further increasing of the
dose.
▪ Combination with non-opioid analgesics is preferred. Tramadol + Paracetamol (Doreta, Zaldiar,
Tramylpa, Palgotal) Tramadol + Ibuprofen, Codeine + Paracetamol (Korylan, Ultracod)
▪ In long-term therapy neither combining various weak opioids nor combining weak opioids with the
strong ones is recommended.

Drug (brand
name)

Codein

Dihydrocodein
(DHC Continuus)
Tramadol
(Mabron, Tralgitt,

Onset of action,
routes of
administration

Max. daily
dose

Note

30-60 min p.o

4x 60 mg

Relatively weak analgesic effect. Antitussive
effect, frequent AE is constipation. In
approximately 10% of the European
population ineffective due to enzyme
deficiency.

2-3 h p.o

2-3x 120 mg

Higher analgesic effect compared to codein

20-30 min p.o, p.r,
i.v, i.m, s.c

2x 200 mg

Many dosage forms.
AE - nausea, dizziness. Adhere to slow

74

Drug (brand
name)

Onset of action,
routes of
administration

Max. daily
dose

Note

Tramal...)

increase in doses, especially when drops are
used.
In combination with SSRI can cause
serotonin syndrome - relative CI.

Strong opioids
Drug group of choice in the treatment of severe cancer pain.
▪ Opioid receptor agonists, one of the safest analgesics. (Buprenorphine partial agonist at μreceptors and antagonist of ĸ-receptors)
▪ Non-toxic to parenchymatous organs, hematopoiesis and do not interfere with the function of the
coagulation system.
▪ If pain of high intensity is respected as the only indication for opioid administration, the risk of
developing a psychological dependence in patients without a previous history of abuse is low.
▪ Every patient receiving long-term opioid treatment must be considered physically dependent there is a risk of withdrawal symptoms from sudden abstinence.
▪ The analgesic effect depends on the dose, doses with comparable analgesic effect (equianalgesic)
have comparable adverse effects.
▪ Oficially, there is no maximum daily dose (ceiling dose). For example, max. dose of transdermal
buprenorphine as given in summary of product characteristics of 140 µg / h is only a
recommendation, new clinical data suggest that higher doses can be safely administered.
Max.
daily
dose

Note

Fast release morphine

20–30 min
p.o, pr., s.c, i.v
(i.v 5 min, s.c 15
min)

4–6 h

Golden standard in a treatment of severe
cancer pain.
Various dosage forms.
Tablets must not be halved, crushed, must be
administered whole, temporarily also p.r
Analgesically active and toxic metabolites
accumulate in renal insufficiency

Controlled release
morphine

3–5 h

12 h

Drug (brand name)

Onset of action,
routes of
administration

Fentanyl TTS
(Durogesic, Fentalis,
Dolforin)

8–12 h

Fentanyl transmucous
(Breakyl, Effentora,
Lunaldin, Instanyl,
Vellofent)

5–15 min
buc. flm, slg. tbl,
nas. spray,

Stable plasma concentrations of fentanyl
Lower occurrence of constipation compared to
p.o. Morphin.
There is no significant accumulation in renal or
hepatic insufficiency.

72 h

Therapy of breakthrough pain
In forms of nasal spray, buccal tablets,
sublingual tablets, buccal film.

75

Drug (brand name)

Onset of action,
routes of
administration

Max.
daily
dose

Note

Controlled release
Oxykodon
(Targin, Oxycontin)

1-3 h p.o, p.r

8–12 h

Buprenorfin TDS
(Noprex, Transtec)

10–12 h

72–84 h

Controlled release
Hydromorfon
(Palladone, Jurnista)

3–5 h p.o

12 h, 24 h

Analgesic efficacy in neuropathic pain
Also useful in renal insufficiency
Better AE profile (especially lower incidence of
constipation) in combination with naloxone.
Good tolerability in seniors, useful in renal and
hepatic insufficiency. It accumulates in biliary
tract obstruction.
Can be used in renal insufficiency
Use in neuropathic pain
Low potential for undesirable drug interactions,
favorable AE profile

Tapentadol
(Palexia)

Breakthrough pain therapy
The aim is a rapid onset of action and a short duration of activity.
▪ In the case of pain at the end of the dose interval, we shorten the interval or increase the dose of
the basic analgesic.
▪ For episodic pain with a causative cause, we treat these causes.
▪ In breakthrough pain without a causative cause, we administer the so-called rescue dose, increase
the daily dose - in opioids by 30%.
▪ In mild to moderately painful episodes of breakthrough pain - non-opioid analgesics, combination
of paracetamol with weak opioids.
▪ Severe pain episodes of breakthrough pain - weak opioids - tramadol (possibly also in patients
chronically treated with strong opioids), rapid release morphine, transmucosal fentanyls.
Indications for increasing the basic (regular) analgesic medication:
▪ In sudden and very short episodes of breakthrough pain, where oral, transmucosal, parenteral
dosage forms are not effective, because their effect only occurs after the pain episode subsides.
Except for a brief episode of pain associated with rehabilitation or medical procedures in which
patient can be premedicated.
▪ In the worsening of pain or a higher incidence of breakthrough pain episodes.
▪ If the patient needs more than 4 rescue doses per day.

Opioid rotation
A change in the type of opioid administered. We assume that each patient has an individual susceptibility
to analgesic effect, but also to adverse effects.
Indications for opioid rotation:
▪ it is not possible to relieve pain by the opioid chosen, increasing the dose is not possible due to
adverse events occurrence (we reduce equianalgesic dose by 10–20%).

76

▪ treatment causes serious adverse effects (in the new opioid we reduce equianalgesic dose by
50%).
Morfin s.c, i.m
Morfin p.o
Morfin i.v
TTS Fentanyl ug/h
Oxycodon p.o mg
TDS Buprenorfin ug/h
Hydromorfon p.o mg
Tramadol p.o mg
Tramadol i.m, i.v
Dihydrocodein p.o

10
30
7,5
12,5
20
4
150
100
120

20
60
15
25
40
35
8
300
200
240

30
90
20
60
52,5
12
450
300
320

40
120
25
50
80
70
16
600
400

50
150
35
100
87,5
20

60
180
40
75
120
105
24

80
240
55
100
160
140
32

100
300
70
250
200

200
600
140

40

80

400

Side effects of opioid analgesics
▪
▪
▪
▪

Very common (> 10%) constipation, nausea, sedation, fatigue, drowsiness, dry mouth
Common (1-10%) vomiting pruritus, urinary retention, sweating
Uncommon (0.1 - 1%) confusion, hallucinations, hypotension
Rare (<0.1%)

Adjuvant analgesics (coanalgesics)
▪ Conditions other than pain are the primary indications, in neuropathic pain these drugs are the
first choice.

Multipurpose coanalgetics
Have an adjuvant effect on most types of pain.
▪ Antidepressants - eg. in dysesthesia, neuropathic pain,
▪ α 2 agonists - clonidine - neuropathic pain, tizanidine (Sirdalud) - muscle relaxant, in pain with a
pronounced myofascial component,
▪ Corticosteroids
There is no standard dosage recommendation, an effective dose is individual for every patient. The
analgesic effect occurs quickly, if it does not occur within 5-7 days, then it is usually advisable to
discontinue administration. Indications for corticosteroids use: bone metastasis pain, neuropathic
pain due to infiltration or compression of nerve structures, muscle and joint pain, hollow organ
obstruction pain (ureter, intestine), capsule tightening (liver, kidney), headache in intracranial
hypertension, spinal cord comppression.

Coanalgesics in a treatment of neuropathic pain
▪ Anticonvulsants and gabapentinoids
First-line anticonvulsants - Gabapentin (Gabanox, Neurontin) 300–1200 mg / day in 3 daily doses,
Pregabalin (Lyrica, Pragiola) 150–600 mg / day in 2 daily doses, carbamazepine for trigeminal neuralgia,
valproic acid clonazepam.

77

▪ Local anesthetics
antiarrhythmics mexiletine, trimecain (slow infusion), lidocaine,
▪ Antidepressants
TCA, SSRI, NSRI, NaSSA

Coanalgesics in a treatment of musculoskeletal pain
▪ Myorelaxants
Tolperisone (mydocalm) 100–150 mg three times a day, Mephenoxalon (Dorsiflex) 200 mg three times a
day, followed by Baclofen 10–20 mg three times a day
▪ Benzodiazepines
diazepam, clonazepam, tetrazepam
▪ Tizanidin (Sirdalud)
starting dose 2 mg per night, individual dosing
Coanalgesics in a treatment of bone metastases pain
Zoledronate 4 mg IV for 4 weeks, Ibandronate - 6 mg IV for 4 weeks or 50 mg p.o daily, Denosumab 120
mg s.c for 4 weeks, Pamidronate 60 - 90 mg IV for 3-4 weeks, Clodronate 800 mg p.o 2 times a day
▪ Corticoids
Prednisone, Dexamethasone, Methylprednisolone - individual dosing
Coanalgesics in a treatment of pain caused by a malignant intestinal obstruction
▪ Corticoids
reduction of intestinal wall edema, reduction of intestinal secretion
▪ Scopolamine buthybromide (Buscopan)
in colic pain 20 mg inj. s.c. / i.v. bolus after 4-6 h or 80 mg / 24 h by continuous s.c infusion
Other coanalgesics
▪ Psychostimulants
Methylphenidate 10-20 mg twice a day (starting dose 5 mg twice a day, gradually increase the dose),
reduce sedation and fatigue induced by higher doses of opioids
▪ Cannabinoids
Main active ingredients are tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and canabidiol (CBD). Have been shown to be
effective in cancer pain and neuropathic pain (HIV), antiemetic effect, improves appetite and affects
sleep. In CZ available as medical cannabis - use in vaporizers or p.o in the form of capsules.

8.6 RADIOTHERAPEUTIC TREATMENT OF CANCER PAIN
The indication is based on severity of a patient's symptoms, thus not only based on the results of imaging
methods.
Examples of indications for palliative analgesic therapy:

78

▪ bone metastasis pain, prevention of pathological fractures, spinal cord compression, dysphagia and
odynophagia in esophageal tumors, affection of intracraial hypertension in brain metastases, pleural
pain and chest wall pain in lung tumors, alleviation of pain in liver, spleen, pancreas, small biliary tract
or lesser pelvis infiltration. Reduction of vascular compression edema, lymphedema in malignant
lymphadenopathy. Skin infiltration, multiple myeloma.

8.7 USE OF UNSEALED SOURCES IN THE TREATMENT OF CANCER PAIN
After i.v. application of radionuclide (Strontium, Samarium) it is selectively taken up in the osteoblastic
zone surrounding the bone metastasis. Local absorption results in inhibition of nerve endings and
reduced production of pain mediators.
Indication:
▪ multifocal painful bone involvement where external radiotherapy is difficult or impossible to perform,
osteoplastic or mixed type bone metastases.

79

9

VENOUS THROMBOEMBOLIC DISEASE IN CANCER PATIENTS
Jiří Švec

Venous thromboembolic disease (VTE - Venous thromboembolism) is a frequent, potentially lifethreatening disease and is one of the major causes of morbidity and mortality in cancer patients.
Approximately 20% of all cases of VTE are associated with cancer and malignant cancer patients are in 47 fold higher risk of developing VTE compared to normal population. The presence of VTE complicates
and delays cancer therapy, is associated with worse prognosis (increases mortality 2–8 times) and is the
second most common cause of death after cancer itself in cancer patients.

9.1 CLASSIFICATION, RISK FACTORS AND ETIOPATHOGENESIS OF THROMBOEMBOLISM IN ONCOLOGY
A term venous thromboembolism includes:
▪ superficial venous thrombosis (thrombophlebitis),
▪ deep vein thrombosis (phlebothrombosis),
▪ pulmonary embolism,
▪ thromboses in other locations (portal vein in 34-40%, mesenteric vein, inferior and superior venae
cavae, pelvic venous plexus),
▪ central venous catheter thrombosis (CVCT).
Risk factors in relation to:
▪ patient - history of thrombosis, infection, elderly, obesity, other illnesses, smoking,
thrombocytosis, congenital or acquired thrombophilic conditions (Leiden mutation of f.V,
antiphospholipid syndrome),
▪ malignancy - histology (tumors of the brain, pancreas, stomach, kidneys, uterus, lungs, ovaries,
urinary bladder, testes) and advanced cancers (metastatic stage has a 6-19-fold higher risk),
▪ treatment - surgery (especially abdomen and pelvis), immobilization, presence of CVC, systemic
therapy (chemotherapy, estrogen receptor modulators - tamoxifen, anti-angiogenic agents bevacizumab, thalidomide / lenalidomide + dexamethasone).
Selected thrombogenic pathogenetic factors:
a) Direct influence of tumor cells
▪ increased production of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNFα, IL-1, IL-6) with increased secretion of
procoagulant factors;
▪ releasing of Tissue Factor (TF), which stimulates thrombin production;
▪ Cancer procoagulant (CO) is a protease produced by tumor cells (cancers of kidney, stomach, acute
promyelocytic leukemia) that activates f. X;
▪ some mucins released from adenocarcinomas may stimulate f. X.

80

b) Treatment related factors
▪ Chemotherapy (taxanes, CDDP, 5FU, MMC) leads to decreased levels of ATIII, protein C and S,
increased vWF endothelial damage, cytokine release, TF.
▪ Anti-angiogenic drugs (bevacizumab, some TKI) - block endothelial function of VEGF and increase
the risk of venous and arterial thrombosis (stroke, MI). Anticoagulant therapy with concomitant
bevacizumab treatment in clinically non-severe VTE (subsegmental pulmonary embolism, limb
thrombosis) is not contraindicated.
▪ EGFR inhibitors (cetuximab, panitumumab) and HT (tamoxifen, megestrol).

9.2 VTE DIAGNOSTICS
a) Diagnostics of deep vein thrombosis
Patient history, physical examination (unilateral limb edema in 80%, pain in 75%, erythema in 26%,
swelling of the face, neck, supraclavicular region), complete blood count with differential, basic
coagulation lab, biochemistry. In patients with a high suspicion and without contraindications, the use of
anticoagulant therapy may be considered prior to imaging (Doppler US, CT or MRI angiography). Ddimers are of limited significance in patients with malignancies.
b) Diagnostics of splanchnic vein thrombosis
Up to 20–30% of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma have portal vein thrombosis at the time of
diagnosis and these patients have significantly worse survival(6 vs. 16 months). Mesenteric vein
thrombosis can lead to intestinal infarction with 30-day mortality of up to 20%. Risk factors include
congenital thrombophilic conditions (antithrombin III deficiency, protein C and S deficiency, Leiden
mutation of f.V, prothrombin G20210A mutation) and acquired thrombophilic conditions (malignancies,
myeloproliferative diseases with JAK2F617F mutation - polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia),
paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, intra-abdominal surgery, pancreatitis. Clinical manifestations
include abdominal pain, ascites, hepatomegaly, nausea, vomiting, anorexia, diarrhea. US, CTangiography, MRI are used in diagnosis.
c) Diagnostics of pulmonary embolism (PE)
Clinical manifestations include dyspnoea (85%), chest pain (40%), tachypnoea (29%), cough (20%),
tachycardia, haemoptysis, syncopy, hypoxia and cardiogenic shock. At the same time, deep vein
thrombosis is found in 50–70%. Asymptomatic patients with a random PE finding should be treated as
symptomatic PE patients. We perform basic examinations with ECG, heart and lung X-ray, CT-AG,
ventilation-perfusion scintigraphy, ECHO, troponin helps to further risk-stratify patients.

9.3 PRINCIPLES OF PROPHYLACTIC ANTICOAGULATION THERAPY IN CANCER PATIENTS
▪ The NCCN guidelines panel (2018) recommends prophylactic anticoagulation therapy in all
hospitalized patients with active cancer and in worsening clinical status. Those are not patients
admitted for short-term chemotherapy or surgery (e.g. biopsy).
▪ In patients after major surgery (intra-abdominal and pelvic surgery, anesthesia> 2 hours, advanced
cancer, age over 60 years, obesity, history of VTE), VTE prophylaxis for 4 weeks is recommended;
10 days is enough for minor surgeries.
81

▪ Prophylaxis is not recommended in outpatient cancer patients; it can be considered in the highrisk subgroup according to the Khorana score.
▪ Routine prophylaxis of thrombosis is not recommended in CVC or port placement.

The Khorana score for prediction of venous thromboembolism in cancer patients
Patient characteristics
Tumors with very high risk of VTE (brain, stomach, pancreas)
Tumors with high risk of VTE (lung tumors, lymphomas, urogynecological tumors
except the prostate and testes)
Pre- chemotherapy platelet count ≥ 350 x 109/l
Pre- chemotherapy leukocyte count > 11 x 109/l
Hemoglobin level< 100 g/l = <10g/dl
BMI ≥ 35 kg/m2

Score
2
1
1
1
1
1

The Khorana score allows risk-stratification of outpatients into low risk (score 0), medium (score 1-2),
and high risk (score ≥ 3) groups. The incidence of VTE is in low risk group - 0.3%, in medium risk group 2% and in high risk group - 11.1% (these patients may be individually assessed for anticoagulant therapy).

9.4 ANTICOAGULANT THERAPY IN VTE
Anticoagulation therapy prevents thrombus growth, fatal pulmonary embolism, recurrent thrombosis
and post-thrombotic syndrome. Low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) is recommended for initial
therapy, unfractionated heparin can be used in patients with CHRI (Clkr <0.5 ml / s), fondaparinux in
patients with HIT.
Initial LMWH therapy should be at least 5–10 days long (for iliofemoral phlebothrombosis and PE with
admission) and maintenance therapy with LMWH (preferentially) or warfarin for at least 3 months, in
proximal phlebothrombosis or pulmonary embolism for 6 months. If active cancer and risk factors
persists long-term anticoagulation with 80% of the therapeutic dose can be considered.
Anticoagulants and their doses used in VTE therapy:
Drug
enoxaparin (Clexane)
enoxaparin (Clexane Forte)
nadroparin (Fraxiparine)
nadroparin (Fraxiparine Forte)
dalteparin (Fragmin)
unfractionated heparin (Heparin)

Therapeutic dose
100IU anti-Xa (1mg)/kg s.c. 2x/day
150IU anti-Xa(1,5mg)/kg s.c. 1x/day
95IU anti-Xa(0,01ml)/kg s.c. 2x/day
190IU anti-Xa(0,01ml)/kg s.c. 1x/day
200 IU anti-Xa/kg s.c. 1x/day
5000-10000 IU i.v. bolus + kont. 1000IU/h.
therapeutic range of 1.5-2.5 (APTT ratios)
7,5mg s.c. 1x/day

fondaparinux (Arixtra)

82

Anticoagulants and their doses used in VTE prophylaxis:
Drug
enoxaparin (Clexane)
nadroparin (Fraxiparine)
dalteparin (Fragmin)
unfractionated heparin (Heparin)
fondaparinux (Arixtra)

Prophylactic dose
0,4ml (40mg) s.c. 1x/day
0,3ml s.c. 1x/day
5000 IU anti-Xa s.c. 1x/day
5000 IU s.c. 2-3x/day
2,5mg s.c. 1x/day

9.5 SPECIFIC SITUATIONS
Thrombolysis is considered in pulmonary embolism with right ventricular dysfunction or massive ileofemoral thrombosis not responding to anticoagulation. Recombinant plasminogen activator tPA alteplase (Actilyse), preferably administered by a catheter, is used in pharmacomechanical thrombolysis.
Absolute contraindications of tPA are intracranial haemorrhage, CNS tumors, iCMP in the previous 3
months, recent trauma, head surgery and ongoing bleeding.
Recurrent VTE occurs in up to 10–17% of patients anticoagulated with warfarin and in 6–9% patients
treated with LMWH. A change from warfarin to LMWH or an increase in LMWH of 25% of the dose is
recommended.

Thrombocytopenia and the need for anticoagulation - full anticoagulation can be given for PLT ≥ 50 x
109/l , implantation of a caval filter can be considered with a lower platelet count and an inability to
transfuse.
Caval filters may be indicated in patients with proximal phlebothrombosis and / or in PE for which
anticoagulation is not possible or has not been effective. Furthermore are also indicated in patients after
repeated PE with severe cardiac dysfunction. Extractable filters are preferred.
Therapy of superficial thrombophlebitis - ATB, NSAID, when in the vicinity of a.femoralis anticoagulation
for 3 months can be considered.
Splanchnic vein thrombosis therapy - full anticoagulation in acute thrombosis, in chronic asymptomatic
and incidentally detected thrombosis is not recommended.
Anticoagulation in CKD - in creatinine clearance <0.5 ml / s, dose reduction of LMWH and monitoring of
anti-Xa activity (blood sampling 3-4 hours after administration) is required; for Clkr < 0,25 ml/s LMWH is
not recommended.
Drug dose adjustments in patients with severe renal function impairment (Clkr = 0,25-0,5 ml/s):
Indication
Prophylaxis of VTE
Therapy of VTE

Enoxaparin dosing
2000IU (20mg, 0.2ml) s.c. 1x/day
100IU/kg (1mg/kg) s.c. 1x/day

83

9.6 CONTRAINDICATIONS OF ANTICOAGULANT THERAPY
Absolute:
▪ recent intracranial haemorrhage (cerebral or spinal cord lesions with high risk of bleeding)
▪ active bleeding requiring more than 2 transfusions / 24 hours.

Relative:
▪ thrombocytopenia< 50 x 109/l,
▪ chronic bleeding, recent GIT ulcer disease,
▪ recent surgery with high risk of bleeding (in the past 3 days),
▪ risk of falls, noncompliance,
▪ spinal anesthesia / lumbar puncture (discontinue LMWH 12-24 hours before and re-initiate 4
hours after, otherwise risk of spinal or epidural hematoma with persistent paralysis).

9.7 BRIEF CHARACTERISTICS OF SELECTED ANTICOAGULANTS
Scheme of coagulation cascade and sites of action of some anticoagulants:

Warfarin Orion 3mg a 5mg – warfarin inhibits carboxylation of amino acids of prothrombin complex
factors (f. II, VII, IX, X) and proteins C and S. It has a half-life of 20–60 hours. It is necessary to coadminister with LMWH until the therapeutic range (INR 2-3) is achieved. Warfarin anticoagulation is
useful in patients with stable cancer, but there is a risk of multiple drug interactions (eg, capecitabine
increases warfarin levels by 57% and INR by 91%) and LMWHs are more effective in secondary oncology
VTE prevention.

84

Heparin, 5000IU/ml – heparin is a naturally occurring mixture of mucopolysaccharides of which activity
is conditioned by the presence of antithrombin III, which inhibits factors IIa and Xa with which it forms
stable complexes. Heparin accelerates their formation by 1000-fold, it does not have a fibrinolytic
activity. Half-life after i.v. administration is 1 hour, after s.c. about 2 hours. The antidote is protamine
sulphate where 1 mg neutralizes 100 IU of heparin.
Clexane 2000IU (20mg)/0,2ml až 10000IU(100mg)/1ml – enoxaparin is a low molecular weight heparin
that has high anti-Xa and low anti-IIa activity that is mediated by antithrombin III. It also has other
antithrombotic mechanisms of action (inhibits f. VIIa, decreases vWF release). The half-life is 5-7 hours.
Patients with renal insufficiency are at increased risk of bleeding, therefore dose reduction and
monitoring of anti-Xa activity is recommended. The antidote of enoxaparin is protamine, which is able to
neutralize about 60% of the anticoagulant activity of LMWH.
Arixtra 2,5mg/0,5ml a 7,5mg/0,6ml - fondaparinux is a synthetic substance, antithrombotic activity is
the result of antithrombin III-mediated selective inhibition of f. Xa which fondaparinux potentiates by
300-fold. It does not affect routine coagulation tests, therapy monitoring is performed by monitoring of
anti-Xa activity. The half-life is 17-21 hours, 70% of fondaparinux is excreted as unchanged compound via
the kidneys and should therefore not be used in patients with Ccreat <0.5 ml / s. Its antidote is not
known.
New oral anticoagulants (dabigatran, rivaroxaban and apixaban) are approved for the prophylaxis and
therapy of VTE, but in the studies conducted up to this date, cancer patients have been represented only
in low numbers therefore, NOACs are not yet recommended in oncology.

9.8 HEPARIN-INDUCED THROMBOCYTOPENIA (HIT)
Type 2 HIT - occurs in about 1.2–2.7% of patients treated with heparin, usually occurs between 5th and
10th day of treatment. It is an immunological reaction where heparin and less frequently also LMWH
binds to a platelet factor 4 (PF4) and heparin / PF4 complexes on the platelet surface and induce
production of a specific antibodies. These antibodies further activate platelets, cause thrombin
formation, and lead to a consumption thrombocytopenia and thromboses.
Diagnosis:
▪ 50% decrease in platelet counts,
▪ time association with heparin administration,
▪ thrombotic complications (arterial and venous thromboses, necrosis at injection site),
▪ immunohematological tests (detection of HIT antibodies).
Treatment:
▪ discontinue heparin or LMWH,
▪ other anticoagulants - fondaparinux or direct thrombin inhibitors, warfarin up to PLT ≥ 150x109 / l,
▪ US screening of LL veins.
In heparin therapy, it is recommended to monitor platelet count prior to initiation of the treatment and
every 2-3 days for the first 14 days and then once every 2 weeks.

85

10 NUTRITION IN CANCER PATIENTS
Tereza Fučíková
Nutritional support is an important part of cancer care. Maintaining good nutritional status is
essential for preserving patient's performance, quality of life, and possible ways for application of cancer
therapy.
Malnutrition (malnutrition) is defined as a long-term state of nutrition that does not meet the needs
of the human organism and does not meet its demands, and in which body reserves of both
macronutrients and micronutrients are exhausted. From the clinical point of view, protein malnutrition is
the most serious, in which catabolism develops due to an inflammation of the organism, proteolysis
occurs mainly in skeletal muscles and sarcopenia develops. Malnutrition worsens the prognosis of the
disease, increases the risk of toxicity of the anticancer treatment and may be the cause of worse
treatment outcomes. The degree of malnutrition affects the expected survival of patients. Effects of
nutritional intervention are better in patients before the development of manifest malnutrition, so it is
necessary to look for patients at nutritional risk and initiate a nutritional intervention before the
development of malnutrition.

10.1 EVALUATION OF NUTRITIONAL STATUS
Evaluation of nutritional status and its monitoring during oncological treatment is an important part of
workup in both hospitalized and outpatient patients.
Nutritional risk indicators used:
▪ anamnestic data - weight change (loss of ≥ 5% of usual body weight in 3 months or ≥ 10% in 6
months), low food intake, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea,
▪ anthropometric data - BMI, arm circumference, current weight, skin fold width,
▪ nutritional risk assessment questionnaire - nutritional screening questionnaires are used to
identify patients at nutritional risk or patients with advanced malnutrition in a simple and timely
manner,
▪ biochemical markers of malnutrition - total protein, albumin, prealbumin (when interpreting
serum levels it is necessary to take into account the clinical condition of the patient, these are
negative acute phase proteins),
▪ diagnosis with nutritional risk - typically tumors of the ENT area, upper part of the digestive tract
(esophagus, stomach, pancreas), generalized tumors,
▪ therapy with nutritional risk - radiotherapy to the area of swallowing (ENT area, esophagus,
epigastrium), concomitant chemoradiotherapy, highly emetogenic chemotherapy, cytostatics
inducing mucositis of the gastrointestinal tract, extensive surgical procedures.

10.2 NUTRITIONAL INTERVENTIONS IN CANCER PATIENTS
Appropriate nutritional intervention should be selected individually after evaluation of the patient's
nutritional status. As a general rule, if the gastrointestinal tract is functional, we always choose the
86

enteral route of administration of nutrition that helps maintaining GIT and the intestinal mucosal barrier
intact. When the gastrointestinal tract is unused, there is a risk of bowel failure. Energy requirements in
patients ranges from 25 to 35 kcal / kg of ideal body weight, protein requirements are 1–2 g / kg of ideal
body weight, we always need to take into account the clinical status of the patient (increased protein
requirements resulting from acute inflammation, in catabolism, etc.).
Nutritional intervention options include dietary recommendations, sipping, enteral tube nutrition and
parenteral nutrition, as well as the use of some appetite-promoting drugs. Well-established supportive
therapy during cancer therapy also plays an important role.
Dietary recommendations
Every patient should be advised about suitable diet. General recommendations are to consume energyrich and protein-rich food, to consume food in smaller portions, to avoid intense taste and olfactory
sensations. It is possible to use a nutritional therapist who takes patients nutritional history, permors
anthropometric measurements, evaluate nutritional needs of the patient and develops a nutritional plan,
as well as properly educates the patient.
Sipping
Sipping is considered an enteral nutrition. This is drinking solutions with a defined composition of all the
necessary nutrients. The advantage of the sipping is a high content of energy and protein in a relatively
small volume of fluid. Depending on the patient's individual needs, a variety of products (diabetic, fatreduced, etc.) can be chosen. Sipping can serve as a dietary supplement if the amount and composition
of the diet is insufficient to ensure adequate nutrition. We make efforts to maintain the patient's body
weight and performance status. Sipping products can also be used in palliative care and terminal patient
care.
Enteral TF
Enteral TF is application of defined nutritional solutions to the gastrointestinal tract via various types of
TFs. For administration of enteral nutrition we can use nasogastric or nasojejunal tube, percutaneous
endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG), surgical gastrostomy or nutritional jejunostomy. We choose the method
of application individually according to the current situation, in patients where long-term dependence on
enteral nutrition is assumed we prefer PEG or nutritional jejunostomy, otherwise we choose nasogastric
or nasojejunal probe. Enteral nutrition is safer, cheaper and more natural compared to parenteral
nutrition. Enteral nutrition is well tolerated in most cases. Insertion of PEG is very often indicated in
patients with tumors in the ENT area before initiation of curative (chemo) radiotherapy to prevent
unwanted weight loss and the associated complications during cancer therapy. Contraindications to
enteral nutrition are acute abdomen (ileus, GIT bleeding, peritonitis), shock, early post-GIT surgery states
and disorders where resorption area of GIT is compromised.
Parenteral nutrition (PN)
Parenteral nutrition (PN) is defined as applying specialist nutritional products directly into the venous
system. It is not a physiological way of providing nutrition, therefore it brings a higher risk of
complications compared to enteral nutrition. Parenteral nutrition can be divided into total and partial. In
total parenteral nutrition (TPN), nutrient intake is ensured solely via the venous route, indication for
total PN are GIT dysfunction disorders (including radiation enteritis, severe diarrhea, malabsorption
states, GIT obstruction). In partial parenteral nutrition (PPN), nutrient intake is ensured by both enteral
87

and venous routes, partial PN is indicated when the enteral route cannot meet the patient's nutritional
needs.
Adequate venous access should be ensured prior to initiating PN. Venous accesses for PN
administration are divided into peripheral and central. Peripheral venous access is chosen in case of
short-term application of PN (usually for up to 7 days) or for the bridging period before securing the
central venous access. There is a high risk of phlebitis or thrombophlebitis associated with prolonged
application of peripheral PN. Only preparations for parenteral nutrition intended for this purpose can be
applied to the peripheral venous system (lower osmolarity of the solution is necessary). More often, PN
is applied via the central venous access (i.e., distal end of the catheter is located in the region of the
cavoatrial junction). For central PN application, central venous cannulas tunneled or non-tunneled (eg,
Broviac catheter), peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC), or venous ports are used. Subcutaneous
catheter tunneling reduces the risk of catheter infection.
Central venous access preference for PN application
Non-tunneled central venous catheter

Use in hospital, shorter time - usually for up to 2 weeks

Tunneled central venous catheter

Use at home, long-term application

PICC
Venous PORT

Use at home or in hospital, mostly used for several
months
Patients with already inserted venous port for anti-tumor
therapy

When administering PN, catheter-related complications such as catheter sepsis, thrombotic
complications may develop. Furthermore, metabolic complications such as refeeding syndrome,
hyperglycemia, ionic disruption, etc. may arise. Refeeding syndrome threatens with careless nutritional
intervention when moving the patient from catabolic to anabolic phase where increased supply of
potassium, magnesium and phosphorus is needed, if these nutrients are not adequately substituted risk
of complications associated with hypokalaemia, hypophosphatemia, hypomagnesaemia.
PN can be applied by all-in-one system where all macro and micronutrients are contained in a single
bag (they are separated first and mixed later, just prior to the administration to the patient) or multibottle systems where individual nutrients are stored separately.
Supportive treatment
In patients at high nutritional risk, it is important to emphasize supportive treatment to address
symptoms that may interfere with their food intake. Proper analgesic therapy, nausea and vomiting
following anticancer treatment therapy , depression therapy, diarrhea and constipation therapy are all
extremely important.
Pharmacotherapy in nutritional care
In case of inappetence, hormonal preparations increasing appetite such as megestrol acetate,
corticosteroids may be used. Some psychopharmaceuticals can also be used.

¨

88

CLINICAL ONCOLOGY

89

11 MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE HEAD AND NECK
Kateřina Licková, Miloslav Ambruš
Head and neck tumors are a heterogeneous group of malignant cancers. This group includes all
malignant tumors in the head and neck area except CNS tumors. Head and neck tumors represent 6–10%
of all malignant neoplasms (WHO), of which more than 40% occur in the oral cavity. The highest
incidence is reported in men around 60 years of age, in this peak, incidence is 2:1 relative to incidence in
women of this age group. With an incidence of 115.7 and a mortality of 9.42 patients per 100,000
inhabitants, the Czech Republic ranks 16th in world statistics both for mortality and incidence. The
incidence of these tumors has almost doubled in the last 30 years. This increase is most pronounced in
tumors of the oropharynx and hypopharynx areas, on the contrary incidence of laryngeal carcinoma
stayed practically stationary.
Significant geographical differences in incidence can also be observed - in general, these tumors are
more common in India and Southeast Asia. In Europe, the increasing incidence trend is described in
France, while the low incidence is observed in the Scandinavian countries. Squamous cell carcinomas of
the head and neck are associated with a difficult treatment and high morbidity related to the primary
disease. Biological behavior of these tumours is characterized by aggressive locoregional invasion and a
high tendency to relapse. Long term observed five-year survival rate of patients is approximately 50–
60%.

11.1 ETIOLOGY
As with most malignant tumors, etiopathogenesis is not exactly known. Alcohol consumption,
tobacco smoking, caries, poor nutritional status and immunity status are the main contributors to their
development.
In groups where excessive consumption of hard spirits and in tobacco smokers, this type of malignant
disease is much more common than in the general population. Excessive alcohol consumption is also
associated with personality disorder and other undesirable complications, such as poor hygiene
standards (especially in dental care). Caries dentition is then a frequent source of chronic infections of
the oral cavity, which affect food intake and subsequently lead to malnutrition that results in failure of
body repair and defense processes. Alcoholics are 2 to 6 times more likely to develop these tumors than
general population. For heavy smokers, the risk may be up to 20 times higher depending on the number
of cigarettes smoked per day. Alcohol and tobacco are both one of the most carcinogenic substances ,
when combined, their effect is cumulative and the risk of developing carcinoma of the head or neck
increases up to 40 times.
Undeniable is also the effect of viral superinfections, especially human papillomaviruses (HPV). In the
palatine tonsil and tongue root region, up to 50% of the tumor cells contain papillomavirus DNA. So far it
has not been clearly explained why HPV infection is the most prevalent in these areas. One theory
suggests that the main cause is the presence of deep crypts lined with single-layered epithelium, a
surface ideal and highly accessible for viral infection. This arrangement of epithelium layers also allows
penetration of the basal layers of the epithelium and further spreading. Moreover, there is less
mechanical replacement of epithelial cells at these sites.

90

HPV-positive carcinomas have a better prognosis than HPV-negative carcinomas due to the lower p53
mutation frequency. With consideration to this risk factor, TNM classification for HPV negative and HPV
positive oropharyngeal tumors has been revised.
EBV, among other viral infections is associated with the development of nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Molecular biology has brought quite a lot of light into the issue of the risk of developing, in particular,
the recurrence of malignant tumors of the head and neck. Tumor cells in areas of the head and neck
have high expression of the epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR) - in up to 95%. This factor carries a
mutated KRAS gene, producing a KRAS protein that promotes or directly triggers cell proliferation and
thereby triggers uncontrolled cell growth, causing a high frequency of recurrence of these tumors.

11.2 CLINICAL SIGNS, SYMPTOMATOLOGY
The clinical picture of the head and neck tumors is in most cases characterized by an inconspicuous,
gradually developing symptomatology. The clinical symptoms depends on the site of lesion. In
nasopharyngeal carcinoma, the patient very often reports impaired breathing through the nose,
sometimes nasal bleeding, ear buzzing – e.g. when tumor ingrows into the orbit - there is a protrusion of
the eyeball and a double vision. For oral cavity malignancies, very often the first symptom is a foreign
body feeling that prevents normal swallowing, or painful swallowing, which may also be associated with
excessive bad breath. In laryngeal tumors, the patient most often notices impaired vocal comfort,
hoarseness or cough provocation. However, the first sign of a malignant process in the head and neck
area is painless gradually increasing swelling on the external part of the neck.

11.3 DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostic algorithm begins with a detailed medical history focused on risk factors. Through physical
examination we can detect pathological changes in the oral cavity, oropharynx or salivary glands and
enlargement of the lymph nodes in the supraclavicular area and in the epididymis.
Examination at a specialized ENT department is recommended in suspicion of cancer in this area.
Otorhinolaryngologist then performs a comprehensive examination, which includes epipharyngoscopy,
laryngoscopy, otoscopy, palpation and ultrasound examination of lymph nodes in the neck. Part of the
examination is also biopsy of the suspected tissue for histological examination purposes. If histology
confirms clinical suspicion, computer tomography, magnetic resonance, or ultrasonography
examinations should be made to accurately determine the extent of the tumor involvement, in case of
laryngeal carcinoma, microscopic laryngoscopy should be done. Based on these examinations we
determine the T (tumor size) and N (the extent of lymph node involvement). This process is primarily
necessary to determine possibilities of surgical treatment of the pathology found. Possibilities for surgery
treatment of the local finding are dependent on the extent of the of organ affection and on the M
parameter (metastatic affection of distant organs and lungs and liver, into which tumors of the head and
neck most often metastasize).
The basic examination for the exclusion of a metastatic lung involvement is a X-ray - summation
image of the lungs, which can be supplemented by a CT scan. If metastatic liver disease is suspected, the
basic examination is ultrasound of the liver, possibly supplemented by computed tomography with a
contrast agent.

91

11.4 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
Up to 98% of the head and neck tumors are squamous cell carcinomas with variable degrees of
differentiation. The rest of the cases are malignant lymphomas (or nodal syndromes in chronic leukemia)
and malignant melanomas. Cylindroma, although benign tumor, behaves malignantly by its destructive
growth and can rarely be found in the area of the nasopharynx.

11.5 TNM CLASSIFICATION
Any diagnosis must be verified histologically.
T – is evaluated during complex ENT examination, on the basis of CT examination or MRI examination
with histologization of the pathological process. It describes the size of the pathological process and
involvement of surrounding anatomical structures or organs.
N – the definition of M categories are the same for all of head and neck locations except for the
nasopharynx and thyroid. The midline lymph nodes with the exception of the thyroid gland are
considered equilateral. Evaluation is performed on the basis of clinical examination, CT examination and
ultrasound examination of cervical nodes.
Nx: lymph nodes cannot be assessed
N0: no regional lymph nodes metastasis
N1: one ipsilateral lymph node metastasis present, size less than 3cm
N2a: one ipsilateral lymph node metastasis present, size 3-6 cm
N2b: more than one ipsilateral lymph node metastasis present, sizes less than 6cm
N2c: bilateral lymph nodes metastases present or at least one contralateral lymph node involved,
all sizes less than 6cm
N3: at least one lymph node metastasis bigger than 6cm
M – the definition of M is the same for all head and neck locations; the severity of the disease is
determined by X-ray of the lungs and US of the liver.
Mx: lymph nodes cannot be assessed
M0: no distant metastasis
M1: metastasis to distant organs (beyond regional lymph nodes)
Table 1 - Classification of stages based on TNM classification
St. 0
St. I
St. II
St. III
St. IV

Tis
T1
T2
T3
T4
T1–3

N0
N0
N0
N0
N0–1
N1

M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0

TX–4

N2–3

M0

TX–4

NX–3

M1

92

Anatomical location-based classification
▪ Lip, oral cavity (C 00, C04)
▪ Pharynx - oropharynx, nasopharynx, hypopharynx (C10, C11, C13)
▪ Larynx (C 32)
▪ Cavity, paranasal sinuses (C 31)
▪ Salivary glands (C07, C08)
▪ Thyroid (C 73)

11.6 TREATMENT OPTIONS
Treatment of malignant tumors in the head and neck area is based on the location of the primary tumor,
the extent of the disease described by histopathological examination and the general condition of the
patient. Close co-operation between otolaryngologist, radiation oncologist and other specialists is
necessary when selecting a suitable therapeutic procedure. Great emphasis is placed on the patient's
quality of life; minding the relation between effectiveness of the treatment and its toxicity.
Surgery together with radiotherapy both represent the main therapeutic options for tumors in the
head and neck area. In general, radiotherapy ± chemotherapy is preferred whenever the patient requires
organ preservation or the tumor is unresectable or there is no possibility for surgery treatment. For the
treatment of early T-stages (cT1 and selected cT2) without lymph node involvement (cN0), treatment
should be monomodal (radiotherapy or surgery), while in locally advanced disease (cT3-cT4 or any T, cN
+) the treatment is multimodal (surgery followed by radiotherapy ± chemotherapy). Concomitant
(platinum-based) chemotherapy has been shown to increase overall survival rates in cancer stage III and
IV. Induction and adjuvant chemotherapy is less effective than concomitant therapy. Another alternative
to concomitant therapy is the combination with cetuximab, an epidermal growth factor receptor
inhibitor. After primary radiotherapy or concomitant radio-chemotherapy, a surgical solution is usually
reserved for the eventual persistence of locoregional disease. The indication of adjuvant treatment after
surgery depends on the extent and location of the tumor, lymph node involvement and next risk factors.
Tumor treatment in this area is multidisciplinary and each decision is discussed in a special team.

11.6.1 Overview of Cancer Treatment Modalities
Radiotherapy
▪ Curative
Curative radiotherapy is performed in patients with a small extent of diseases (T1, T2), where
radiotherapy is equivalent for surgical treatment in terms of long-term survival. In addition, radiotherapy
is a method with organ preservation. Furthermore, it is a method of choice in patients refusing surgery
or in whom surgical treatment is contraindicated due to co-morbidities. A dose received can reach up 70
Gy in7 weeks.
▪ Concomitant radiochemotherapy
Concomitant radiochemotherapy may be considered for locally advanced head and neck tumours (T3, 4
N +). The aim of combined therapy is to achieve long-term local control. Combined therapy is usually
more effective than using individual treatment modalities alone, but it increases the rate of acute side
effects (mucositis and haematological complications). These complications may lead to unplanned and
undesirable interruption of radiotherapy.

93

Epithelial tumors have up to 95% positive EGFR. Therefore, the effect of radiation therapy can also be
potentiated by biological response modifiers.
▪ Postoperative (adjuvant)
Post surgery radiotherapy is indicated in cases of insufficiently wide or unclear edges (less than 0.3 mm)
of tumour excised, extracapsular spread (when in lymph node pathology), in lymph nodes involvement
generally, in pT3 or pT4 stage if angioinvasion, lymphangioinvasion or perineural spread is present. The
effectiveness of postoperative radiotherapy is significant and increases the survival rate by up to 30%. A
dose received is 60-66 Gy in 6–7 weeks.
▪ Preoperative (neoadjuvant)
The aim of neoadjuvant radiotherapy is to reduce the tumor mass and allow radical surgical removal of
the tumor,or performing of debulking procedure. The target tissue is usually a primary tumor and
regional lymph nodes. However it is not used routinely as it worsens the healing process, increases tissue
bleeding during surgery and worsens postoperative fibrosis of the subcutaneous tissue.
▪ Palliative
The indication for palliative radiation therapy depends on the extent of the disease and the patient's
condition. The aim of palliative radiotherapy is to alleviate the patient's problems, such as pain or
bleeding. Palliative radiotherapy is short, we do not have to take into account the late toxicity of the
treatment and our only effort is to reduce adverse effects of the cancer and thus improve the quality of
life of the patient. We use higher than normal daily doses of 3–4 Gy, e.g. 10-12 fractions of radiation of 3
Gy 5 times a week.

Fractionation and doses of radiation therapy
The standard fractionation is 5 times a week and the dose applied is 1.8-2.2 Gy
Technique and planning of radiotherapy
The patient is lying on his back in the supine position during irradiation of the head and neck tumors.
Shoulder and head fixation is provided by a thermoplastic mask made individually for each patient so
that the shoulders are pushed caudally. The mask is attached to a special mat to ensure an almost 100%
reproducible position.

Chemotherapy
In this group of tumors, chemotherapy is essentially used in two basic indications. Firstly, as a single
palliative treatment of metastatic disease, and secondly in combination with radiotherapy as a treatment
of locally advanced tumors. The treatment is based on platinum derivatives (mainly cisplatin) and 5fluorouracil.
Immunotherapy
Immunotherapy is used in metastatic disease and also in locally advanced tumors in concomitance
with radiotherapy. In both cases, very good efficiency has been demonstrated.
Immunotherapy consists of therapy with agents directed against structures specific for tumor tissue.
Epidermoid carcinomas in the head and neck area need epidermal growth factor (EGF) for their growth

94

and are therefore characterized by high expression of its receptor (EGFR). The monoclonal anti-EGFR
antibody (cetuximab) is able to specifically block EGFR and prevent tumor proliferation.
Pic. 1 Summary of head and neck cancer therapy

11.6.2 Treatment modalities by cancer site
Oral cavity tumors
Anatomical location-based classification
▪ Malignant neoplasm of lip,
▪ Malignant neoplasm of base of the tongue,
▪ Malignant neoplasm of other and unspecified parts of the tongue,
▪ Malignant neoplasm of gum,
▪ Malignant neoplasm of mouth floor,
▪ Malignant neoplasm of palate,
▪ Malignant neoplasm of other and unspecified parts of the mouth.
Oral cavity cancers tend to grow locally. They spread primarily ipsilaterally, rarely crossing the
midline. Metastatic spread to the lymph nodes is relatively late and mostly also ipsilateral. Early stages
cancers are treated surgically by local excision; alternatively brachyradiotherapy can be used because
oral cavity is readily accessible by interstitial application of needles or use of plastic conductors. Locally
advanced by surgery treatable stages are treated by tumor resection and cervical lymph node block
dissection. Postsurgery radiotherapy is indicated if affected lymph node is found in the histological
specimen or when there are positive resection margins. Curative radiotherapy is an alternative to
surgery in locally advanced tumors. Either alternative fractionation regimens, concomitant
radiochemotherapy regimen or radiotherapy with cetuximab may be used.
Prior to initiating radiotherapy for oral cavity cancers, dental evaluation and treatment is always
required.

Laryngeal cancers
Anatomical location-based subcategories
▪ supraglottis
o suprahyoid epiglottis
95

o aryepiglottic algae
o arytenoid region
o infrahyoid epiglottis
o ventricular algae (false vocal ligaments) - sinus Morgagni
▪ glottis
o vocal ligaments
o leading commission
o back commission
▪ subglottis
In stages I and II cancers of the supraglottic and glottic regions, the 5-year survival is up to 95%, in
subglottic cancer it is only 40%. This is related both to the extent of lymphatic drainage of the given
anatomical areas and to the histological type of cancer found and, last but not least, how easily the
tumor is found by a basic examination. In supraglottic and glottic regions, there predominantly well
differentiated squamous cell carcinomas are found, in the subglottic region, cancers have less
differentiated forms that behave more like tumors evolved from the airway epithelium, which are highly
radioresistant.
Lymphatic drainage of individual areas of larynx:
▪

Glottis region has very poor lymphatic supply. Lymphogenic spread is mainly to the supra- or
subglottis regions. In the case of tumors limited to the vocal cords, at the time of diagnosis the
incidence of nodal involvement is 0%, 1.7% in T2 stage, and 20-30% in T3 and T4 stages.

▪

Subglottis: lymph drains through the cricothyroid membrane to the pre- and paratracheal cervical
nodes in the upper mediastinum and to the lower deep cervical nodes.

▪

Supraglottis: at the time of diagnosis, ipsilateral nodes are affected in 55% and bilateral cervical
lymph nodes in 16% of the patients.

The treatment strategy depends on a number of factors. In addition to the expected adverse local effect
of the treatment, some of them are: voice retention, possibility for surgery (general condition of the
patient). Very important for the patient outcome is his compliance in the follow-up.
In T2 stage cancers of supraglottis, partial laryngectomy or radical radiotherapy may be the method of
choice. In more advanced findings, stages T3, T4 we choose total laryngectomy with node dissection and
adjuvant radiotherapy. Postoperative radiotherapy is indicated in positive resection margins or invasion
to the soft tissues of the neck, thyroid cartilage, as well as for the spread of the tumor to the subglottis
and for metastatic involvement of the lymph nodes.

Pharyngeal cancers
▪ Malignant neoplasm of oropharynx,
▪ Malignant neoplasm of nasopharynx,
▪ Malignant neoplasm of hypopharynx.

Oropharyngeal cancers
Anatomical location-based subcategories
▪ root of the tongue,
▪ lower surface of the soft palate,
96

▪ uvula,
▪ tonsils,
▪ tonsillar fossa and tonsillar arches.
Regional lymph nodes
▪ subdigastric, superior cervical (most commonly jugulodigastric node), parapharyngeal, middle and
posterior cervical, submaxillary,
▪ tonsillar fossa tumors have the highest incidence of lymph node involvement (up to 60-70%); soft
palate tumors metastasize mostly to the posterior nodules.
Treatment strategy
In localized disease, surgery or radiotherapy is the method of choice. In higher stages of disease, the
combination of both modalities increases local disease control. If in single use both can also be combined
with neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
Irradiation of regional lymph nodes is always indicated if there is an evidence of the involvement of
regional lymph nodes.

Hypopharyngeal cancers
At the time of the diagnosis, more than 80% of the patients have palpable cervical lymph nodes.
Treatment strategy
Treatment strategy depends on the location of the tumor, its resectability and radicality of the procedure
itself. For operable tumors of stages T3, 4, surgery with subsequent radiotherapy is the most appropriate
choice. In the case of inoperable mass, concomitant chemotherapy and radiotherapy may be considered.
In case of lymph nodes involvement we irradiate bilateral cervical lymph nodes and supraclavicular
lymph nodes.

Nasopharyngeal cancers
Anatomical location-based subcategories
▪ roof and posterior wall of the nasopharynx (from hard palate and soft palate border down to skull
base),
▪ lateral wall of the nasopharynx or fossa of Rosenmüller
▪ inferior wall of the nasopharynx (posterior surface of soft palate).
Squamous cell carcinomas, anaplastic carcinomas - lymphoepitheliomas (not lymphoma), adenoid
carcinomas, non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, and rarely sarcomas can occur in the nasopharynx area.
Regional lymph nodes
Lymphatic vessel network structure is very rich, the lymphatic supply passes through the midline
(retropharyngeal, submastoideal, internal jugular lymph nodes). More advanced diseases infiltrate
anterior and posterior cervical lymph node chains and adrenal glands. Enlarged lymph nodes are
palpable at the time of the diagnosis in up to 80% of patients.

97

Treatment strategy
Because of anatomical localization, rich lymphatic supply, high radio- and chemosensitivity,
radiochemotherapy is the preferred method of choice. However, surgical resection with sufficient margin
is almost impossible in this area.

Paranasal Sinus Tumors
Tumors of these areas are usually diagnosed in locally advanced stage, but lymphogenic metastasess are
present in only 15% of the cases. The vast majority of tumors in this area are squamous cell carcinomas,
small salivary glands tumours, melanomas and rarely estesioneuroblastomas of the nasal cavity also
occur. The treatment is usually combined - surgery with postoperative radiation therapy.

Salivary gland tumors
Malignant processes in salivary glands are accounting for less than 4% of all head and neck tumors.
Histology
▪ Low grade:
o
o
▪ High grade:
o

mucoepidermoid low-grade
acinar cell carcinoma
mucoepidermoid high-grade

o

mixed (pleiomorphic adenoma)

o

adenoid cystic (tendency to perineural invasion)

o

adenocarcinoma

o

spinocellular

o

undifferentiated

Treatment strategy
Surgery
Surgical intervention is fully indicated after histological verification of the tumorous process. In the
malignancy process with a high degree of malignancy, a radical dissection of cervical lymph nodes is also
necessary.
Adjuvant radiotherapy is indicated in:
▪ the case of a macroscopic or microscopic residual disease - a recurrent disease,
▪ high-grade diseases,
▪ the case of clinically positive cervical lymph nodes.
Palliative radiotherapy is indicated individually, in advanced, relapsing, inoperable tumors, and in
patients with generally poor condition.

98

Thyroid cancers
The incidence of this type of cancer is not high, accounting for 0.8% of all cancers, occurring in 4 cases
per 10,000 inhabitants. Histopathologically, thyroid tumors are generally classified into tumors resulting
from malignant transformation of follicular cells (papillary, follicular, carcinoma oxyphilic, or mixed
forms) and parafollicular cell (medullar) cancers, which account for 5-10% of all total thyroid
malignancies. It is likely that de-differentiation of these two basic types of tumors then produce
aggressive anaplastic carcinomas.
Thyroid carcinoma treatment is based on partial or total thyroidectomy. Depending on the nature of the
tumor, adjuvant or curative radioiodine treatment (papillary, follicular carcinoma, clear cell carcinoma)
follows at specialized departments of nuclear medicine. In anaplastic carcinoma or in non-iodine
accumulating tumors, chemotherapy may be considered in the treatment strategy.
Radiation treatment strategies
▪

Curative radiotherapy is indicated in non-radioiodine-capturing tumors if inoperable or when
surgery is contraindicated.

▪

Adjuvant radiotherapy is indicated in well-differentiated tumors with insufficient or no
accumulation of radioactive iodine, or when the tumor has infiltrated surrounding connective tissue,
in metastatic involvement of the lymph nodes, or tin he presence of tumor residue in the surgical
field. Postoperative radiotherapy is always indicated in anaplastic thyroid cancer and medullary
cancer.

▪

Concomitant radiochemotherapy is rarely considered. In anaplastic carcinomas, external irradiation
can be potentiated by a chemotherapy.

▪

Palliative radiotherapy is indicated individually according to the local findings and general status of
the patient.

Note: Regional lymph nodes in this type of cancers are cervical and superior mediastinal nodes
(prelaryngeal, middle and lower jugular, and possibly also the superior jugular, supraclavicular, pre- and
paratracheal, superior mediastinal).

Neck cancer metastases, primary tumor not found / unknown
Metastatic cervical lymph nodes of unknown primary origin represent a very heterogeneous entity.
The most common histological types found are carcinomas, adenocarcinomas and undifferentiated
carcinomas. The basic examination is an endoscopic examination of the ENT area and contrast-CT of the
head and neck area. If primary tumor is not found, endoscopic examination under anesthesia is
performed and biopsy is taken from given ENT sites - nasopharynx, tongue root, piriform sinus and
homogeneous tonsillectomy is performed. Negative results of these examinations are followed by
bronchoscopy, esophagoscopy and PET / CT.
If primary tumor localization is still not found after examinations above have been performed,
treatment program is initiated (50-80% of al the primary tumors are located in the oropharynx area).

99

12 BREAST CANCER
Milan Brychta
Mammary gland (breast) cancer is the most common malignant cancer in women, but it does not avoid
the male population either. It is characterized by high variability of individual types. In particular, its
treatment is influenced by many factors that allow to choose from a wide selection of therapeutic
approaches. A number of specialists from various medical fields are involved in its treatment. Thanks to
improving early diagnosis rate and modern treatment procedures, the mortality of the disease is
decreasing slightly but steadily, despite the increasing incidence.

12.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
With the exception of skin tumors, breast cancer is the most common cancer in women in the Czech
Republic. In 2015, 7,102 new cases were detected (132.4 cases per 100,000 women) and 1,609 women
died. The incidence and mortality rates have stabilized compared to 2016. The mammary gland
carcinoma in men is significantly less frequent, the incidence is about two orders of magnitude lower
than in women and is about 1 case per 100 000 men.

12.2 ETIOLOGY
The exact mechanism of primary breast cancer is unknown. The most common breast cancer is
carcinoma, which is mostly influenced by hormonal and genetic factors.
We know both risk and protective factors affecting the incidence of the disease.
Risk factors can be divided into:
1. Hormonal - early onset of menarche before 12 years and late menopause, after about 50 years of
age, nulliparity, age at first birth - the incidence of breast cancer and prolonged use of hormonal
contraception or hormone replacement therapy increases with age at first birth.
2. Previous incidence of breast cancer in woman or first degree female relatives, where the incidence
in one woman increases the risk twice and in two women three times. The incidence of malignant
tumor in one breast increases the risk of malignant tumor in the other breast 5-fold compared to
the normal population.
3. Lifestyle with a negative impact of alcohol consumption, smoking and obesity (carcinogenesis is
due to a higher conversion of androstenedione into estrogen in adipose tissue with the help of
natural aromatases). Exposure to radiotherapy before 45 years of age also has a negative effect.
4. Inherited dispositions are mainly proven mutations of BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, gene mutations in
ataxia telangiectasia-ATM, gene associated with 53-TP53 transformation, 2-CHEK2 checkpoint
kinase, phosphatase and tensiomine-PTEN homologues, cadherin 1-CDH1 and partner and the
BRCA2 -BRCA2 / PALB2 locator.
Protective factor is especially breastfeeding – every 12 months breastfeeding reduces risk by 4.3%
and physical activity. The role of phytoestrogens is unclear, while the protective effect has been
demonstrated in the Asian population, it has not led to a change in risk in the Western population.

100

12.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
Clinical signs - local
Tactile breast resistance is present in about 60% of patients. Pain, pressure, and feeling of tension in the
breast are reported by about 20% of patients. Specific is the image of orange peel (peau d'orange) with
typical ridges. A special unit is the inflammatory carcinoma (erysipeloid), expressed by redness of the
skin, where the carcinoma is based on infiltration of skin lymphatic vessels by malignant cells and this
finding (TNM-T4d) is a contraindication to surgery. Inverted nipple or pathological secretion from the
breast can be observed.
Clinical signs - locoregional
When assessing the locoregional manifestations of the disease, it is important to know the specifics of
lymphatic drainage of the breast. Network of lymphatic vessels begins from the areola and lymph
drainage is realized in several main directions. Approximately 75-95% of the lymph flows through the
lymph node (LN) of the axilla (approx. 50 nodes) and further into the adrenal glands and 5-25% into the
parasternal nodes. Further drainage of the lymph goes to the subclavian area. There are connections to
the nodules, liver nodes, intercostal nodes, and connections to the second breast. Axillary lymph nodes
are practically divided into 3 levels in cranio-caudal order III. (apex of the axilla with neurovascular
bundles in the vicinity), II. (middle part of axillary body of fat), I. (lower part of axilla). The lymph node
enlargement may be related to different quantity of LNs and may be of varying degrees. A typical tumorinfiltrated LN is of a solid to hard consistency. A locoregional advanced symptom is the connection of
several nodes into an enlarged rigid nodal packet.
Clinical signs of advanced disease
Sign of advanced cancer is the detection of metastatic disease to other organ systems, such as bones in
20–60%, lungs in 15–25%, liver in 5–15%, brain in 5–10%. Locoregional metastasis occurs in 20–40% of
cases, when there are satellite subcutaneous nodules – called metastatic lenticules – in scars after
surgery or in the surroundings.
Signs of distant dissemination are derived from the site of the affliction, the most common symptoms
being pain in a certain area (skeletal or liver affection), shortness of breath or cough (lung affection),
neurological symptoms (such as dizziness, headache, visual impairment in brain involvement).

12.4 DIAGNOSTICS
Making the right diagnosis is the basis for successful treatment. The diagnosis includes assessment of the
local extent of the disease, evaluation of possible distant manifestations of the disease by means of
staging examinations, which together with histopathological examination enable classification of the full
extent of the disease.
Anamnestic data
Family history is the basic foundation block, which may indicate a possible familial burden. Gynecological
data, e.g. early menarche, late menopause, higher age of first birth. Breastfeeding is referred to as a
protective factor. The finding of pharmacological anamnesis is important, e.g. for possible connection
with the use of older generation contraceptives.
101

Physical clinical examination
Inspection – when evaluating the breast by looking (sitting, standing, bending forward) we observe
differences in breast configuration, shape and size, signs of skin tension from the subcutaneous tissue.
Palpation – we always consider both sides of the paired organ during palpation examination. Breast
palpation is usually performed by the circular or meandering method. We also palpate the areas of both
the axils, the epididymis and the neck.
Instrumental examinations
By default, both breasts have X-ray diagnostic mammography done in two projections. Typically, we see
an image of a focal tipped lesion (spike) or an image of clusters of microcalcifications. We can observe a
thickening of the skin cover above the superficial lesion or a solid dense tissue.
Ultrasonography (US) of breasts is a routine supplementary diagnostic examination to X-ray
mammography and is always done when taking biopsy material.
Ductography with retrograde contrast instillation may give some clues during the filling of the ducts with
the contrast medium, we use it in pathological secretion from the nipple area.
Basic staging examinations
▪ Lung X-ray, liver ultrasonography, skeletal scintigraphy,
▪ CT examination - facultative diagnostic examination,
▪ Magnetic resonance imaging is used to detect small lesions, in severe dysplasias, and to evaluate
suspected relapses. MR of the breasts is also useful in lobular carcinoma.
Laboratory examination
KO, biochemical analysis of serum, examination of tumor markers: CEA (carcinoembryonic antigen), Ca
15-3.
Examination of biological material
Cytological verification is performed, for example, in pathological secretion from the nipple by imprinting
the secretion on a slide followed by microscopic examination.
Histological verification is the basic examination and an unavoidable condition for the diagnosis of
breast cancer. The aim is to obtain sufficient material for histopathological examination,
immunohistochemical (IHC) examination and molecular biological examination. Material collection is
performed from a puncture biopsy of a suspected tumor in the breast and / or a suspected affected node
under control under ultrasound, CT or MR (corecut biopsy) or by performing a stereobioptic puncture. It
is also possible to use surgical local extirpation of the material from the site or peroperative sampling of
the material.
Sentinel lymph node examination is a mini-invasive surgical procedure that obtains the nearest
collesting lymph node near the tumor. Biopsy is performed as a part of the diagnosis of the disease,
otherwise it is a routine part of the surgical treatment of breast cancer (sentinel lymph node extirpation).
If the lymph node is free of tumor cell infiltration during histological examination, the patient does not
102

have to be subjected to a more extensive procedure in the area of the axilla (exenteration). Detection of
the sentinel lymph node is performed using a Tc 99m radiopharmaceuticals or by staining with the
Patentblau contrast agent, which is instilled peritumorally or intratumorally.
Knowledge of the histological type of cancer and, depending on the extent of tumor spread,
classification by appropriate stage is the basis for adequate treatment. In Czech Republic the most
commonly used classification of malignant tumors is the TNM international classification.

12.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
In differential diagnostics it is necessary to assess both local symptoms and distant findings. Of all
palpable breast lesions, benign resistance is found in 80%, which often leads to underestimation of the
findings. The most common are adenoma, simple cystic changes, abscess, lipoma, epithelial hyperplasia,
cystic mastopathy, fibroadenomas, ductal papillomas, sclerosing adenosis. Increased attention should be
paid to breast redness, symptoms of possible inflammation (mastitis) should be immediately treated and
the inflammatory variant of cancer should be excluded.
In the general population, the average time elapsing between the detection of indeterminate breast
resistance and the initiation of tumor therapy is reported as 5 months. On the other hand, the radiation
load associated with repeated mammography examination for non-specific findings should be
considered. It is, however, mandatory to examine each suspected breast lesion by X-ray mammography
and to perform biopsy verification if uncertain.
If lymph nodes are swollen, it is necessary to think about the symptoms of malignant lymphoma,
where the palpation finding resembles an inflammatory node of soft consistency. Non-specific
lymphadenopathy in the neck and breast can also be of infectious origin. If the first symptom is swelling
of the entire upper limb overflowing over into the chest and lymphadenopathy is not present,
consideration should be given to the superior vena cava syndrome with an advanced lung tumor.

12.6 PATHOLOGY
The mammary gland is a derivative of the sweat gland from the ectoderm. Normal adult mammary gland
consists of epithelial and stromal elements. The epithelial component consists of lactiferous ducts with
transient breastfeeding function. The stromal component consists of adipose and fibrous connective
tissue.
Developmental embryonic mammary gland may be the basis of primary mammary carcinoma in
women and men. Due to its histogenetic nature and immaturity of primary cells, cancer of the accessory
gland has a very unfavorable course of the disease.

The mammary gland may be the site of benign breast disease and primary or secondary malignant
tumors. The most common benign diseases with the risk of transformation are: epithelial hyperplasia,
cystic mastopathy, fibroadenomas, ductal papillomas, sclerosing adenosis. Secondary malignancies –
metastases, which propagate into the mammary gland, come mostly from the secondary breast, from
the thyroid gland, generalization of malignant lymphomas.

103

The most common primary malignant breast tumors are epithelial tumors – carcinomas located in
almost 50 % of the cases in the upper external quadrant of the breast. Mesenchymal tumors – sarcomas
are rare. Infiltration of the mammary gland with malignant lymphoma may also occur.
Histological classification of carcinomas
The first group consists of non-invasive (non-infiltrating) carcinoma in situ. They occur in approximately
10 % of all cancers. These are lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) or ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). A
special unit of DCIS is intraductal carcinoma – Paget's nipple carcinoma, where the infiltration comes
from the ducts and spreads to the epidermis of areola.
The second group is much more numerous with appearance in 80-85 % of cancers. These are invasive
(infiltrating) carcinomas. The most common variants in about 70% of cases are invasive ductal
carcinomas (current NST classification): mucinous, tubular, medullar, adenoid cystic, scirrhous, comedo
carcinoma, invasive ductal carcinoma with predominantly intraductal component. Invasive lobular
carcinoma is present in 10% of casse.
Inflammatory (erysipeloid) carcinoma is a special clinical-pathological unit (enlarged red breast with
tumor infiltration of skin lymphatic vessels). Cystosarcoma phyllodes is initially bordered by a benign
phylloid tumor that develops into a malignant variant with rapid growth and increasing tumor volume.
Histological grading: G1 - well differentiated, G2 - moderately differentiated, G3 - poorly differentiated,
G4 - undifferentiated (anaplastic) tumor.
In addition to grading, proliferative activity grading (KI-67 or MiB) and immunohistochemical
determination of estrogen receptors (ER), progesterone receptors (PR) and cerbB2 growth receptor
(HER2) are an integral part of histological examination.
A specific oncological-pathological view of the histological breakdown of breast carcinomas is the
division of these tumors into 5 biological subtypes (see table), in which histological prognostic and
predictive indicators of tumor cells are taken into account. Individual subtypes have different prognosis
(going from luminal type A with the best prognosis to triple negative subtype with the worst prognosis)
and at the same time predict the choice of systemic therapy.
Tab. Biological subtypes of mammary gland carcinoma
Luminal type
Luminal A
Luminal B HER negative
Luminal B HER positive
HER pozitivní
Basal like - triple negativ

Characteristics
ER and PR positive, HER2 negative, grade 1,2, KI67 low (<20%)
ER positive PR negative, HER2 negative, grade 3, KI67 high (> 20%)
ER positive PR any, HER2 positive, KI 67 any
ER or PR negative, HER2 positive
ER or PR negative, HER2 negative

We consider ER and PR positive at 10% or more.

12.7 THERAPY
The treatment of breast cancer is as individualized as possible with respect to the patient and her
disease. It usually combines locoregional methods (surgery and radiotherapy) and systemic methods

104

(chemotherapy, hormone therapy, biological therapy) in a different order. An integral part of the
treatment is supportive therapy, which affects the symptoms and findings caused by diseases, which
possibly accompanies the patient's own oncological therapy. Immunotherapy is not currently used
modality, but the theoretical assumptions and results of some studies put it in the position of a method
with a promising perspective.
The assessment of therapy is done through a multidisciplinary team. When assessing therapy, two
basic aspects that shape and modify the design of therapy need to be considered. The first is the patient,
her age, general condition, co-morbidity, previous and current therapy. The second is the tumor, its
staging, histopathological findings and the resulting prognostic and predictive factors.
Surgical treatment
Surgical treatment is the oldest of treatment modalities used in breast cancer. This treatment has gone
from maximization to minimization. Since Haldsed's operation in the late 19th century, in which the
entire breast and pectoral muscle were removed, we are currently moving towards tumorectomies in
which only a tumor bearing with a safety margin of healthy tissue is removed. Surgery in the area of
sentinel lymph nodes in the axilla underwent a similar development. From the dissection (exenteration)
of the axilla - removal of all nodes in all three levels of the axilla, we minimized surgery to remove
correctly detected sentinel nodes. The current surgical standard of segmentectomy (synonymous with
lumpectomy or tumorectomy) with removal of the sentinel node significantly outweighs the more radical
procedure - ablation (mastectomy) with axillary exenteration. However, these more radical breast
treatments will always have an unquestionable place in the treatment of breast cancer, especially in
erysipeloid cancer, in patients with diffuse microcalcifications in more than half of mammary glands, in
patients with previous breast irradiation, in patients with unfavorable tumor-to-breast ratio, and in
patients with BRCA positivity.
Another possibility of surgery is palliative surgery of orthopedic, neurosurgical, thoracic or abdominal
surgery to eradicate mostly solitary manifestations of metastatic disease.
Radiotherapy
Breast cancer radiotherapy (RT) is carried out in the form of external high-energy irradiation
(teleradiotherapy) and also uses the method of brachyradiotherapy. Postoperative adjuvant radiation
significantly reduces the number of local recurrences. The target volume is the breast after partial
surgery or thoracic wall after radical surgery. If lymph nodes are affected, the target volume also includes
axillary nodes, the area of the glandular lymph nodes, and parasternal lymph nodes. Doses for adjuvant
teleradiotherapy on thoracic wall or breast after partial surgery are recommended at 45-50 Gy / 1.8-2 Gy
per day. After partial surgery we increase the dose on the primary tumor bed and scar to 9–12.6 Gy / 1.8
Gy per day as boost by teleradiotherapy or we can use the possibility of interstitial puncture of
brachyradiotherapy. In brachyradiotherapy, plastic catheters or metal needles are usually inserted into
the tumor bed, which then irradiates the target volume from the inside.
Palliative external irradiation can be performed for advanced primary findings or for localized
metastases, most commonly found in the skeleton, for which lower doses are used. In some cases of
diffuse occurrence of bone metastases, systemic applications of Strontium Sr89 or Rhenium Re186
radioisotopes can be used.

105

Hormonal therapy
Hormonal therapy (HT) is part of a comprehensive oncological treatment, a treatment with systemic
effect. The basic premise for effective hormonal treatment is the presence of hormone receptors
(estrogen and progesterone) on the surface of tumor cells. Due to the signaling of estrogens through the
estrogen-receptor complex, tumor cells transform and proliferate. Higher conversion of adrostenedione
to estrone in adipose tissue with the contribution of natural aromatases (membrane-bound enzymes)
also contribute to carcinogenesis.
If both estrogen and progesterone receptors are present on cancer cells, hormonal therapy is
indicated for both adjuvant treatment and the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic disease. The
basic drug is antiestrogen tamoxifen, which acts as a competitive inhibitor on the cell receptors.
Aromatase inhibitors (inhibition of steroid enzyme synthesis – exemestane and non-steroid inhibitors:
anastrozole, letrozole) are switched to in the case of tamoxifen intolerance or failure.
Hormonal treatment in postmenopausal women is usually initiated by the administration of the
antiestrogen tamoxifen and after its failure it is switched to aromatase inhibitors.
Hormonal treatment in premenopausal women is initiated by the administration of LH-RH analogues
– goserelin (Zoladex) with reversible ovarian ablation in very young at-risk patients. In middle-aged, lowrisk patients, treatment is initiated with tamoxifen.
Among other hormonal preparations, pure antiestrogen Fulvestrant (Faslodex) is used with higher
antitumor activity and minimal undesirable side effects.
Modern methods to enhance the effectiveness of hormone therapy are substances used to overcome
hormonal resistance, which are considered to be a part of the group of biological therapy substances
(mTOR, CDK4/6).
Chemotherapy
The systemic effect of chemotherapy (CHT) is advantageously used during its application. Administration
of cytostatics in effective combinations is used in neoadjuvant indication (to reduce primary tumor –
downstaging – to allow radical surgery), also in adjuvant indication (to minimize the risk of early
dissemination) and in the treatment of advanced stages of the disease with palliative intent (to inhibit
tumor progression). The most potent cytostatics include: doxorubicin (risk of cardiotoxicity increasing
with dose accumulation), epirubicin, docetaxel, paclitaxel (risk of neuropathy), vinorelbine,
methotrexate, capecitabine, cyclophosphamide, fluorouracil, gemcitabine.

Most commonly used schema
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪

FAC: fluorouracil, adriamycin (doxorubicin), cyclophosphamide,
AC: adriamycin, cyclophosphamide,
TAC: Taxotere (docetaxel), adriamycin, cyclophosphamide,
AC / T: adriamycin, cyclophosphamide, paclitaxel (or docetaxel-Taxotere),
XENA: capecitabine and vinorelbine.

106

Biological treatment
Biological treatment, better designation being “targeted”, because its aim is to target and selectively aim
at certain "targets" on tumor cells and thus eliminate their division. While two targets were preferred in
breast cancer ten years ago (receptor EGFR -HER2 and VEGF), the number of targets has now increased
(mTOR, CDK 4/6, PARP, PI3K / Akt) and the spectrum of anti-HER drugs in particular has expanded. The
biological therapy of anti-HER preparations requires immunohistochemical determination of HER2
receptor positivity. Therapeutic inhibition of the HER receptor is performed on the extracellular portion trastuzumab or pertuzumab, optionally in combination, or on the intracellular, tyrosine kinase portion lapatinib.
Another monoclonal antibody is bevacizumab with activity against vascular endothelial factor.
New preparations targeting other targets (affecting other signaling pathways) are everolimus
(affecting the mTOR pathway), abemaciclib, ribociclib or palbociclib (affecting CD4/6 kinases) and
olaparib (inhibition of PARP proteins).

12.8 THERAPEUTIC COMPLICATIONS
Complications of surgical treatment
After radical surgery, lymphedema of the respective upper limb may develop. Measures to reduce
lymphoedema are: avoid sudden heat changes (sauna), avoid pressure changes during the onset of
swelling (diving, hiking, long airplanes), on the same extremity: do not measure blood pressure, do not
wear rings, bracelets and watches, do not take blood samples , do not administer injections, protect the
limb from insect bites, do not sleep with the limb under the body, do not carry heavy weights i nthe limb.

Complications of radiotherapy
Acute changes in radiotherapy are most often manifested as skin changes of I. degree (erythema), II.
degree (wet desquamation), III. degree (necrotic changes).
If partial acute pneumonitis occurs, it is usually limited to that part of the lungs that is adjacent to the
irradiated target volume
Late changes after radiotherapy:
Skin changes limited to irradiated volume - hyperpigmentation, fibrosis of the skin and subcutis,
telangiectasia.
Partial pulmonary fibrosis may occur in the extent of irradiated volume with a typical sickle cell image at
CT scan.
Late change after radiotherapy may also be plexopathy of cervicobrachial plexus. It is a neuropathy with
a variable neurological deficit.
Lymphoedema of the respective upper limb is caused by the disease itself, surgical intervention and
radiotherapy. Swelling can range from intermittent to monstrous lymphedema with impaired patient's
quality of life.

107

Complications of hormonal treatment
Hormonal drugs are relatively well tolerated. Tamoxifen may cause hot flashes, thromboembolic event
predominantly in the lower limbs, or an increase in the uterine mucosa (risk of development of
endometrial cancer). Rarely, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia and osteoporosis may occur. When using
aromatase inhibitors, non-specific symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, headache, flush, sweating may
occur. The risk of osteopenia is increased.
Complications of chemotherapy
When properly monitored, acute side effects of chemotherapy (haematological toxicity: leukopenia,
thrombocytopenia and non-haematological toxicity: nausea, vomiting) are managed with supportive
therapy. In the case of administration of cardiotoxic cytostatics (doxorubicin), sequential radiotherapy
may result in the accumulation of cardiac and pericardial adverse effects with a decrease in the ejection
fraction. Acute pneumonitis may develop following administration of cyclophosphamide. Peripheral
neuropathies are associated with paclitaxel administration.

12.9 FOLLOW-UP
Post-therapeutic monitoring is important for detecting early local recurrence or early detection of
developing relapse. Follow-up includes anamnestic data from the last follow-up, locoregional and total
physical examination in 4-6 month intervals for 5 years and once a year thereafter. Mammalogical
examination (MG + ultrasound) is performed once a year. Gynecological examination (palpation +
ultrasound) with hormone therapy (tamoxifen) twice a year. Depending on the severity of the risk of
generalization, examinations (lung x-ray, ultrasound of the liver, skeletal scintigraphy) should be
performed every 12 months during the period of highest risk of relapse, for a maximum of the first five
years after the treatment is over. Examination of tumor markers (CEA, Ca 15-3) is controversial and the
yield of their monitoring is being questioned.

12.10 PROGNOSIS
Survival of breast cancer is predicted by the following prognostic factors: tumor size, axillary node
involvement (number of affected nodes and extent of involvement), histopathological findings (degree
grading), presence or absence of hormone receptors, biological activity - proliferation status (ploidy,
percentage of cells in the S phase).
In general, as the disease progresses, the risk of failure of treatment leading to shortening of the
patient's life increases. At present, the prognosis for the survival of each stage of the disease is reported
as follows: about 80% of patients with T1-3 without axillary node involvement achieve 5-year survival.
Patients with T2 findings and N1 involvement have a 5-year survival of approximately 70%. Patients with
N2-3 findings have a 5-year survival of approximately 40%. The median survival of patients with distant
metastases is 24 months, with the exception of longer survival in those where only generalization to the
bone is found.

108

13 MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE LUNG
Jan Dvořák, Tomáš Blažek

13.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
Malignant tumors of the trachea and lungs are a serious public health problem. In the Czech Republic in
2016 the total incidence of new disease was 64 cases per 100 000 people, which translates to 86/100
000 in men and 43/100 000 in women. Lately, there has been a decline in the incidence in men, however
unfortunately the trend is not the same in women. Mortality in lung tumors is highest of all cancers. In
2016 the mortality was 73 per 100 000 men and 33 per 100 000 women. The median age of diagnosis is
approximately 70 years of age.
We divide Lung Carcinomas into two basic groups:
Each group has similar biological behavior of tumor cell clones, which results in the specific guide of
therapy in each group.
The first group is called Non small cell lung cancer - NSCLC which comprises 80% of lung tumors. It is
characterized by low growth activity and a penchant towards locoregional lymphatic spread. Early stages
of NSCLC are primarily treated surgically with subsequent chemotherapy, while locally invasive stages are
treated with radiotherapy, chemoradiotherapy, or even surgery and chemotherapy
(chemoradiotherapy). Generalized and locally aggressive tumors are treated systemically.
The second group (approximately 20% of diagnoses) is comprised of Small cell lung cancer - SCLC.
They are characterized by fast growth activity and a penchant towards hematogenous spread. The basics
of SCLC treatment is the administration of systemic chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
As of 2015, the newest the WHO Classification of Tumors divides lung tumors into epithelial,
mesenchymal, lymphohistiocytic, and ectopic. More information is found in section 13.6.

13.2 ETIOLOGY
The development of lung carcinomas requires the involvement of a number of factors (multifactorial
theory). The causal relationship between smoking and the development of lung carcinomas has been
clearly established. It is generally accepted that smoking 20 cigarettes a day for more than 20 years
increases the risk of developing the disease 50x. This risk is also seen in non-smokers who spend long
times in smoke infested areas. Tumors are also caused by mechanical particles in the environment (eg
dusty factories), chemical exposure (heavy metals - cadmium, chromium, nickel, asbestos - leading to
mesothelioma, formaldehyde and PVC production) and ionizing radiation (uranium mines - occupational
disease, presence of radon in unventilated areas). Chronic inflammatory lung disease together with a
weakened immune system can lead to the initiation of tumor transformation.

109

13.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
Clinical signs can be divided into local (intrathoracic), advanced (extrathoracic and metastatic) and
paraneoplastic symptoms.
Local signs (intrathoracic)
The most common symptom (reported by 75% of patients) is cough. The cough can be in the form of a
dry cough to a productive cough with expectoration of sputum comprised of mucous, blood and necrotic
matter. Hemoptysis is reported in up to 50% of patients. It range from small streaks of blood in sputum
or up to massive terminal hemoptysis. It is a negative prognostic factor, and is considered an urgent state
in oncology which requires treatment (medication - application of hemostatic and/or irradiation).
Dyspnea is most often seen in advanced stages or in infectious complications resulting in obstruction of
respiratory pathways or with atelectasis due to fluidothorax. Fluidothorax is caused by obstruction of
main lymphatic pathways or due to direct damage to the pleura due to the tumor. (typical recurrent
effusions are a symptom of mesothelioma). The pleural effusions may also be accompanied by irritative
cough and pain. In centrally located tumors, tumor infiltration may cause stridor (wheezing) due to the
narrowing of the main airways. The reason for hoarseness is usually pressure on nn. recurrent in its
mediastinal path, often due a meta process in the lymph nodes. Disorders of swallowing (dysphagia) can
be caused by infiltration or pressure on the esophagus due to enlarged lymph nodes.
Chest pain manifests according to the localization of the tumor infiltration, most often caused by
interfering with the pleura or nervous plexus of intercostal nerves or plexus brachialis. Of all lung tumors,
5% disseminated by direct growth into the thoracic wall. By infiltrating the area of the pleural cupula,
Pancoast syndrome may occur, which is characterized by affection of the brachial nervous and vascular
bundles, and affection of the first ribs (pain in the shoulder region). Sometimes, even sympathetic
nervous bundles can be affected leading to Horner’s Syndrome (ptosis, miosis, enophthalmos).
Advanced tumors in the area of the upper mediastinum can create Superior Vena Cava Syndrome, with
varying forms of manifestation. According to the character of affection/pressure, we can see increased
fill of nodes of the neck with expanded collateral flow on the chest, edema of the eyelids and
conjunctival leakage, swelling of the face and neck, sometimes affecting the entire upper half of the
body. This is also an urgent state in oncology needing treatment, which depends on the overall state of
the patient, histological type and prognosis of the disease. In chemosensitive small cell carcinomas,
treatment is preferred by medication, i.e application of corticosteroids and systemic Chemotherapy, or in
some cases Radiotherapy, after which one can assume a quick onset action due to cytoreduction or
reduction of the tumor mass compressing the vena cava.
On the other hand, in resistant tumors (NSCLC) the onset of the effect of radiotherapy or
chemotherapy is usually very slow, which is insufficient in the treatment of the acute phase of the
disease. Therefore, patients in good overall status with an expected survival longer than 3 months prior
to oncological treatment are indicated to an intervention which includes the introduction of an
expandable stent into the superior vena cava to decompress and restore venous return from the vein.
Advanced signs (extrathoracic and metastatic)
In the locoregional lymphatic tumor propagation, most often the clavicular and cervical scalene lymph
nodes are affected. Neurological problems develop when vertebral bodies are affected by ingrowth.
110

Distant metastatic manifestations most often affect the CNS, bones, liver, and adrenal gland. Metastatic
affection of the brain is often accompanied by headache and nausea, with eventual vomiting, change in
vision,uncertainty during walking, and other neurological symptoms. If distant metastases are identified
as the first symptom of the disease, it is a very serious prognostic factor, with a survival time of several
months. Distant metastases are present in 95% of small cell carcinomas, in 80% of adenocarcinomas and
in 50% of squamous cell carcinomas.
Paraneoplastic symptoms
Most often manifesting in small cell carcinomas. The mechanism of these manifestations is often
complex in nature. General symptoms include fatigue, weight loss, anorexia. Neurological symptoms are
divided into central (brain atrophy, mental degeneration including dementia, psychosocial degradation,
impaired coordination, balance disorders) and peripheral with manifestations of neuropathy.
Coagulation and autoimmune connective tissue disorders may also occur. Myasthenia - muscle
weakness expressed as general fatigue. Endocrine disorders arise depending on ectopic production of
hormones, eg hyponatraemia and water retention (SIADH syndrome), hypercalcaemia, polyuria,
gynecomastia, and Cushing's syndrome may occur.

13.4 DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostic process is usually performed in internal and pulmonary departments.
Anamnestic data
Taking a personal and occupational history may alert us to possible links with risk factors. The
anamnestic data provides us with information regarding the nature of the symptoms, their intensity and
the duration of symptoms.
Clinical Physical Examination
During inspection, we assess the general condition/state of the patient, looking at the posture of the
body, upper limbs and chest. Next, utilizing palpitation, we palpate the supra clavicular and cervical
lymph nodes. We also percuss the chest and spine, and finally we auscultate the lungs bilaterally.
Functional Examination
Functional examination of the lungs is provided by spirometry, which is normally indicated and
performed before radical surgery.
Imaging Examination
A posterior-anterior chest radiograph, while standing is the first examination to be performed. It is able
to show more severe pathological findings, such as atelectasis, fluidothorax or bulky tumors. For an
accurate diagnosis, it is necessary to use a CT of the thorax and adrenal glands, which nowadays is a part
of the standard staging examination, however the area of mediastinal nodes is known for its poor/low
sensitivity and specificity. For more accurate diagnostics we utilize Positron Emission Tomography (PET),
especially in the diagnosis of solitary lesions (distinguishing benign from malignant nodes), as well as to
determine the extent and stage of the disease (mediastinal involvement, indication of surgical treatment
options) and in planning radiation therapy (eg to differentiate tumorous involvement and healthy
structures). Utilization of MRI brain scanning in the staging of the tumor is recommended for SCLC and in

111

more advanced NSCLC tumors. In addition, for complete staging, it is recommended to also perform a
USG of the abdomen (to exclude liver or adrenal metastasis) and skeletal scintigraphy to exclude skeletal
dissemination.
Interventional Examinations
Performing fibrobronchoscopy with a flexible bronchoscope (possibly in combination with endobronchial
ultrasound EBUS) serves as a possible intrabronchial assessment of the lower airways.
During the examination, suspected material is collected for cytological or histological verification
(suction of secretion, brush swab, bioptic excision, transbronchial puncture of mediastinal or hilar lymph
nodes). Performing bronchioloalveolar lavage is used for cytological, bacteriological and microbiological
examination.
Investigations utilizing video assisted thoracoscopy or video assisted mediastinoscopy are carried out
with the aim of obtaining material (most often lymph nodes) for histological verification when it is
impossible to use a less invasive method. A trans-thoracic biopsy under CT control is used to verify
peripheral lesions in the lung parenchyma.
The aim is to obtain sufficient histological material for a detailed examination of the tumor type and
its molecular characteristics, according to which the optimal treatment strategy will be chosen.
Laboratory Examinations
Erythrocyte sedimentation, blood count, biochemical examination of the serum.
Examination of tumor markers is of additional importance only, as the sensitivity of individual markers
varies between 25-70% only. Markers examined for NSCLC include: SCC (for squamous cell carcinomas),
CEA (carcinoembryonic antigen for adenocarcinomas). Markers examined for SCLC include: NSE (neuron
specific enolase), CEA, and Calcitonin.
Examination of Biologic Materials
The goal of histological verification of lung tumors is to correctly classify the disease into specific groups
of carcinomas. A representative sample of biological material for histopathological examination is usually
obtained during fibrobronchoscopy, trans-thoracic biopsy, video assisted thoracoscopy, or eventually
video assisted mediastinoscopy.
It is necessary to determine the histological subtype with the obtained material (possibly repeat
biopsies) for molecular testing,
▪

A: Histological subtypes: adenocarcinoma, large cell carcinoma and NSCLC not otherwise specified NOS.
o Examination of activated mutations EGFR, ALK, (considering ROS, BRAF) or PD-L1 expression
(see immunotherapy)
▪ B: Squamous cell carcinoma - Consideration of EGFR and ROS examinations in non-smokers (never
smokers)

112

In exceptional cases, if it is not possible to obtain sufficient material for histopathological
examination, due to the danger in delay of treatment, the minimum requirement for initiation of
oncological treatment is cytological examination.
Knowledge of the histological subtype of tumor, and the extent of tumor spread with classification of
tumor via appropriate stage is the basis for adequate treatment. Our country most commonly utilizes the
TNM international classification of tumors. The current version of TNM 8 has been valid since 2017.
Stage of the Tumor:
Occult
Carcinoma
0
IA
IA2
IA3
IB
IIA
IIB

IIIA

IIIB

IIIC
IVA

IVB

TX

N0

M0

Tis
T1mi
T1a
T1b
T1c
T2a
T2b
T1a
T1b
T1c
T2a
T2b
T3
T1a
T1b
T1c
T2a
T2b
T3
T4
T4
T1a
T1b
T1c
T2a
T2b
T3
T4
T3
T4
Any T
Any T

N0
N0
N0
N0
N0
N0
N0
N1
N1
N1
N1
N1
N0
N2
N2
N2
N2
N2
N1
N0
N1
N3
N3
N3
N3
N3
N2
N2
N3
N3
Any N
Any N

Any T

Any N

M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M0
M1
a
M1
B
M1
C

From a practical point of view, we divide the stages of lung tumors as follows:

113

NSCLC:
▪ initial stages: T1,2 N1 M0,
▪ locally advanced stages: T1-4 N1-3 M0,
▪ very advanced stages with generalization: M1.
SCLC -in small cell lung cancer, two stages are distinguished:
▪ Limited disease comprises stages I-III (any T, any N, M0) which can be safely treated with radical
doses of radiotherapy. Excluded are stages T3-4 with multiple lung foci or in bulky tumors and
nodes, which prevent dose escalation to radical Radiotherapy (60 Gy).
▪ Extensive disease includes stage IV and T3-4 with multiple lung foci or bulky tumor and nodes
which are too large for radical radiotherapy.

13.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
Differential diagnostics is very demanding in both terms of anatomical and functional context. Careful
consideration of local, advanced and paraneoplastic symptoms should be considered. During inspection,
we assess the general state of the patient (activity, cachexia), patient behavior (psychosocial well-being),
posture and upper limbs, other active symptoms (cough, breathing difficulties, hoarseness of voice) and
chest configuration (bulges in supra clavicular zone in Pancoast tumor).
With palpation, we perform a check of the clavicular and cervical lymph nodes in order to detect
pathological lymphadenopathy. Chest percussion should be symmetrical; if however the percussion is
dull, it may signify effusion. Percussion of the spine which is painful may reveal possible metastasis.
Auscultative findings are often variable: weakened or absent breath sounds may indicate fluidothorax or
tumorous masses, while other findings may include tubular breathing, rales, rhonchi, and wheezing.
Fluidothorax is often accompanied by dyspnoea and pain, with a typical X-ray finding which is usually
indicated by an absent costophrenic angle , which is obscured by the fluid.
The effusions do not only have to be of malignant origin (typical in mesothelioma), but may be caused
by various non-specific or specific inflammations (i.e. tuberculosis). Hemoptysis is most commonly
observed in chronic bronchitis, as well as in bronchogenic carcinomas, but cardiogenic origin should also
be considered. When movement of the upper limb is limited including in the resting position, it is
important to consider Pancoast tumor, however the issue may also be of neurological or post-traumatic
origin. Superior vena cava syndrome with pronounced lymphadenopathy may indicate malignant
lymphoma. If a small lesion is detected in the lung parenchyma, histological verification should be
performed. Benign lesions are predominant, however malignant lesions, whether primary or secondary
(metastasis), should always be excluded. In order to more precisely diagnosis we can utilize PET
examination in solitary lesions (to distinguish between benign from malignant lesions), and to further
verify the possible persistence of the disease after treatment or to assess unclear relapse.

13.6 PATHOLOGY
The lungs are a paired organ located in the chest cavity covered by a visceral pleura. They are part of the
respiratory system, more specifically the lower respiratory tract. Lymphatic drainage goes from the
respective area of the lung into the ipsilateral hilar lymph nodes, then on both sides to the paratracheal,
subcarinal, mediastinal and supraclavicular nodes.

114

Histological classifucation of Lung Tumors: (Currently valid as of the 2015 WHO version)
Histological types and subtypes
Epithelial tumors
Adenocarcinoma
Lepidic adenocarcinoma
Acinar adenocarcinoma
Papillary adenocarcinoma
Micropapillary adenocarcinoma
Solid adenocarcinoma
Invasive mucinous adenocarcinoma
Mixed invasive mucinous and nonmucinous adenocarcinoma
Colloid adenocarcinoma
Fetal adenocarcinoma
Enteric adenocarcinoma
Minimally invasive adenocarcinoma
Non Mucinous
Mucinous
Preinvasive lesions:
Atypical adenomatous hyperplasia
Adenocarcinoma in situMucinous
Non Mucinous
Squamous cell carcinoma
Keratinized squamous cell carcinoma
Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma
Non- Keratinized squamous cell carcinoma
Preinvasive lesions - squamous cell carcinoma in situ
Neuroendocrine Carcinoma
Small Cell Carcinoma
Combined Small Cell Carcinoma
Large Cell Neuroendocrine Carcinoma
Combined Large Cell Neuroendocrine Carcinoma
Carcinoids
Typical Carcinoid
Atypical Carcinoid
Preinvasive lesions
Diffuse idiopathic pulmonary neuroendocrine cell hyperplasia
Large Cell Carcinoma
Adenosquamous Carcinoma
Sarcomatoid carcinoma
Pleomorphic Carcinoma
Spindle cell carcinoma
Giant Cell Carcinoma
Carcinosarcoma
115

8140/3
8250/3
8551/3
8260/3
8265/3
8230/3
8253/3
8254/3
8480/3
8333/3
8144/3
8256/3
8257/3

8250/0
8250/2
8253/2
8070/3
8071/3
8072/3
8083/3
8070/2
8041/3
8045/3
8013/3
8013/3
8240/3
8249/3
8040/0

8012/3
8560/3
8022/3

Histological types and subtypes
Pulmonary Blastoma
Other and Unclassified carcinomas
Lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma
NUT Carcinoma
Salivary gland-type tumors
Mucoepidermoid carcinoma
Adenoid cystic carcinoma
Epithelial-myoepithelial carcinoma
Pleomorphic adenoma
Papillomas
Squamous cell papilloma
Exophytic
Inverted
Glandular papilloma
Mixed Squamous and Glandular Papilloma
Adenoma
Mesenchymal Tumors
Lymphohistiocytic tumors
Tumors of ectopic origin
Germ cell tumors
Teratoma, mature
Teratoma, immature
Intrapulmonary thymoma
Melanoma
Meningioma, NOS
Metastatic tumors

8082/3
8023/

8040/3
8200/3
8562/3
8940/0
8052/0
8052/0
8053/0
8260/0
8560/0

9080/0
9080/1
8580/3
8270/3
9530/0

Histological grading
G1 - Well differentiated, G2 - Moderately differentiated, G3 - Poorly differentiated, G4 - undifferentiated
(anaplastic) tumor.

13.7 THERAPY
13.7.1 Review of Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) Treatment
In beginning stages surgical resection is the only curative method in the treatment of non-small cell lung
cancer. The type of surgery is proportional to the extent of the findings and the state of the patient
(lobectomy, pneumonectomy with lymph node staging, including hilar and mediastinal
lymphadenectomy). After radical surgery, adjuvant chemotherapy is indicated from stage T2 and above.
Also in the case of lymph node involvement, either hilar (N1) or mediastinal (N2). Post-operative
radiotherapy is indicated in cases of mediastinal Lymph node (N2) involvement. In non-radical surgery,
meaning microscopic (R1) or macroscopic (R2) residue, re-resection is primarily indicated, or even
chemoradiotherapy (RT-CHT).
116

In locally advanced stages, it is recommended that up to N1 affection, surgical action be attempted
followed by chemotherapy (see chemoradiotherapy above). In patients with N2/3 affection, radical
chemoradiotherapy is the standard procedure. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy can be initiated in a highly
selected few patients with non-bulky N2 involvement, and radical surgery is then possible if downstaging occurs. If there is no regression after initial chemotherapy, radical chemoradiotherapy (RT-CHT) is
then pursued.
Radiotherapy is the main treatment method in locally advanced disease. It is normally performed via
external radiation - teleradiotherapy. A combination of Radiotherapy and concomitant chemotherapy is
considered a radical treatment approach. Sequential administration, meaning, first, administration of the
chemotherapeutic agent and afterwards radiotherapy, achieves worse treatment results compared to
concomitant administration (RT-CHT). Radical radiotherapy in combination with chemotherapy is a
relatively toxic regimen and cannot be applied to all patients with advanced disease. In case of low
effectivity and numerous comorbidities, radiotherapy is usually indicated independently.
A special modality is called SABRT (Stereotactic Ablative Body Radiotherapy). It is a radical treatment
method, reaching similar respectively only slightly worse results compared to surgical treatment. In
principle, it is a technique of stereotactic radiotherapy (see chapter radiotherapy). Application of a
radiobiologically high dose of radiation in a small number of fractions (4-10) into a precisely defined
volume. This method is used in the therapy of localized staged NSCLC T1-2 NO M0. It is reserved for a
narrowly selected group of patients in whom surgery is contraindicated, ie. patients with severe
comorbidities, who would not be able to undergo general anesthesia, patients with low performance
status (CI 80-70%), or older age. Age is one of the factors, however the exact limit is not defined, it more
often depends on the biological age of the patients. Technically, this method is more demanding due to
the application of a biologically highly effective dose. Therefore, it is important to avoid irradiation of
healthy tissues. Tumor tracking or gating techniques are used in order to achieve this (see the chapter on
radiotherapy). In the case of tracking, X-ray contrast markers (gold seeds) are placed into the tumor area,
their position and movement are continuously monitored during irradiation. This procedure is used in
Cyber knife irradiation. The gating method, on the other hand, uses irradiation only at certain stages of
the breathing cycle (inhalation), when tumor movements associated with breathing are minimized. This
procedure is used in linear accelerators.
Brachytherapy is most commonly used in palliative indications in the treatment of lung carcinomas. It
is performed in patients, with the goal to clear airways, release atelectasis after tumor stenosis, and
improve the patient's respiratory comfort. Technically, the procedure is based on the introduction of a
brachytherapy catheter under bronchoscopic control intraluminally into the tumor region of stenosis,
respectively after it. The HDR after-loading technique (see the chapter on radiotherapy) is used for
irradiation. Complications of the procedure may include massive bleeding from large vessels after
irradiation with terminal hemoptysis. Therefore, this method should not be indicated for centrally
located tumors surrounding main vascular bundles.
An alternative to brachytherapy is laser treatment with insertion of a bronchial stent.

Therapy of very advanced and generalized stages is individualized treatment, all depending on the
general state of the patient. Palliative radiotherapy is used to stabilize local findings, to reduce tumor
foci in the treatment of superior vena cava syndrome, in the treatment of painful Pancoast tumors,
117

during hemoptysis, in the presence of skeletal dissemination, eventually, brain affection and more. In
palliative chemotherapy, careful consideration is given to combination therapy of cytostatics (platinum
based + taxanes or vinca alkaloids) or mono therapy (platinum, gemcitabine, taxanes). In the selection of
treatment, we take into account the general state of the patient, comorbidities and nutritional status. If
however, the airways become constricted/restricted by pressure from the surroundings (tumor/ lymph
nodes), bronchoscopy with implantation of stents can be used to temporarily facilitate breathing into the
lower airways.
External Lung Radiation Doses for NSCLC:
▪ Conventional Radiotherapy with radical (curratiative) approach, 59,4–66,6 Gy/1,8 Gy
▪ Palliative Radiotherapy – usually 30 Gy/3 Gy/10 fractions or 40 Gy/2,5 Gy/16 fractions
▪ SABRT (stereotactic radiotherapy) – 60 Gy in 4–10 fractions, or 50 Gy in 5 fractions
Systemic Treatment of NSCLC
Chemotherapy
The basics of treatment regimens are based on platinum derivatives (complex of cisDiamineDichloroplatinum - cDDP)) or carboplatins (CBDCA), especially in combination with other
cytostatics (etoposide, docetaxel, paclitaxel, gemcitabine, vinorelbine). For adenocarcinomas, the
compound pemetrexed is included in the mix.
Biological (targeted) therapy is currently being used mainly as a palliative and maintenance therapy in
NSCLC. Therapy is targeted to mutated membrane receptors involved in signal transduction. We
distinguish several types of mutations - EFGR, ALK, ROS1. Targeted treatment is chosen according to the
type of mutation. Gefitinib, erlotinib, afatinib, osimertinib (tyrosine kinase inhibitor of EGFR kinase) are
used in histological variants of adenocarcinoma, large cell carcinoma, and non specific NSCLC with
positive activation mutations of EGFR +. These tumors may also show ALK or ROS1 mutations, in these
cases, treatment with crizotinib, ceritinib, alectinib, brigatinib (which is currently under EMA approval),
ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitors and MET kinases are preferred.
In the absence of mutations, a combination of chemotherapy and bevacizumab (blocker of VEGF) may
be used as first line therapy in selected cases.
Recently, immunological therapy targeting programmed death receptor (PD) or programmed cell
death ligand (PD-L1) has been introduced in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer, which play an
important role in the anti-tumor response including the activation of cytotoxic lymphocytes. These drugs,
so-called checkpoint inhibitors, are inherently anti-PD or anti-PDL1 antibodies which modify the course
of the immune response in favor of the immune system (Tc lymphocytes). This group includes
pembrolizumab, nivolumab, atezolizumab, durvalumab. Availability of the drugs depends on the specific
situation, current registration of the drugs and eventual insurance payment options. See more details in
the chapter of immunotherapy. Unlike systemic chemotherapy, both targeted treatment and
immunotherapy have different adverse reaction/side effect profiles (changes in skin adnexa, palmarplantar erythema - hand-foot syndrome, paronychia, stomatitis, pneumonitis, colitis, and thyroiditis).

118

13.7.2 Treatment overview of Small Cell Lung Carcinomas SCLC
Due to the biological nature of this type of tumor which has significant metastatic potential, treatment
should be approached the same as a systemic disease.
Surgical intervention is chosen to a much lesser extent than NSCLC. It usually occurs in small lesions,
when the finding cannot be verified histologically. Planned surgery is indicated in patients with a very
limited stages of the disease (T1 NO M0).
In limited stages of the disease, it is standard to sue combined treatment of chemotherapy and
radiotherapy. Concomitant chemoradiotherapy is more effective than sequential irradiation.
Prophylactic irradiation of the brain lowers the incidence of brain metastases, which improves the
asymptomatic period and long term survival.It is recommended in patients who are in complete
remission or partial remission with doses of 25,2–30,6 Gy/1,8 Gy/fraction.
Patients in primarily extensive stages of disease are treated with systemic chemotherapy.
Independently administered teleradiotherapy with paliative indication is most often used in order to
reduce the tumor mass, improvement of superior vena cava syndrome or irradiation of metastasis
located in the brain and skeleton.
Doses of external irradiation of the lungs in SCLC:
▪ Conventional Radiotherapy with radical (curative approach), 50–60 Gy / 1,8 Gy.
▪ Palliative radiotherapy – usually 30 Gy / 3 Gy / 10 fractions.
Chemotherapy SCLC
The basis of treatment regimens are again based on platinum derivatives (cDDP / CBDCA). The standard
first-line treatment in the limited stages is the use of a platinum derivative and etoposide. In other lines
of treatment, the same regimen can be used in case of a longer duration of response to the first line of
treatment or topotecan, cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide and others.
The treatment of malignant effusions, which can occur in 35% of cases of lung carcinomas, is
presented in the chapter on pleural tumors.

13.8 POST TREATMENT COMPLICATIONS
Complications of Surgical Treatment
Thanks to improvements in diagnostics, postoperative and supportive therapy,postoperative morbidity
and mortality has significantly decreased in the past few years. After pulmonary resection, 25% of
patients are prone to cardiac arrhythmias. The most common complication after operations on lung
tumors includes pulmonary atelectasis (20-30%) with clinical signs of dyspnea, and tachycardia. Its
prevention lies in respiratory rehabilitation and the administration of drugs which lessen bronchospasms.
Complications of radiotherapy
Acute side effects of radiation depend on the amount of absorbed dose (tolerable does in lung tissue =
30 Gy) and the sensitivity of irradiated tissues (radio-sensitivity). The radiation sensitivity of the lung
parenchyma increases from the hilum to the periphery. Radiodermatitis is not a major complication

119

when utilizing multi-field irradiative techniques. Acute esophagitis may be grounds for discontinuation,
or sometimes an exception reason for discontinuation of treatment. Radiation damage of the trachea
and main bronchi, for example after brachy radiotherapy or stereotactic radiation, results in fits of dry,
non-productive cough. Acute radiation pneumonitis is the most common complication of radical
radiotherapy in lung tumors. Manifestation of problems is usually within 1-3 months (median 6 weeks)
after radiation treatment and depends on the total dose, fractionation, and the volume of irradiated lung
tissue. The most common symptoms include pain, fever, cough, and shortness of breath. The
pathogenesis is an inflammatory reaction with vascular congestion of the bronchial and bronchiolar
mucosa, with degradation of lymphatic follicles and subsequent fibrous exudation due to increased
capillary permeability. This will reduce the viable respiratory area. X-ray signs of pneumonitis (blurring
due to atelectasis or effusion, and beginnings of fibrotic changes) are generally confined to the irradiated
area, but may well exceed the target volume limits. In concomitant treatment with chemoradiotherapy,
significant increases of toxic manifestations (pneumonitis, mediastinitis, esophagitis) should be expected.
The treatment of these complications is problematic and requires administration of corticosteroids,
antibiotics and a restful regimen.
Pulmonary fibrosis is a delayed complication during radiation treatment. It usually manifests between
the 6th to 12th months (median 6 months). Typically well defined changes can be seen on x-ray only in
the location of the original target volume. Corticoid therapy does not have any effect anymore.
Complications of chemotherapy
When properly monitored, the most common acute side effects of chemotherapy (hematological
toxicity: leukopenia, thrombocytopenia and non-hematological toxicity: nausea, vomiting) are managed
by supportive therapy.
The co-administration of cardiotoxic cytostatics (doxorubicin) and radiotherapy in SCLC may lead to
the summation of adverse events on the heart and pericardium in those at risk for coronary heart
disease. Acute pneumonitis may also develop following administration of cyclophosphamide. Peripheral
neuropathies (paraesthesia, dysesthesia, and impaired mobility of the lower extremities in particular)
may be associated with paclitaxel administration.
Complications of biological therapy
▪ Anti-VEGF - bevacizumab: hemoptysis, bleeding. A high risk is seen in squamocellular carcinoma
which is why this drug is contraindicated in these circumstances. Take into careful consideration
patients with brain metastases.
▪ Anti-EGFR treatment: most often are skin changes - shown in the picture below

120

▪ Anti ALK therapy: interstitial lung pneumonitis, long QT interval.
▪ Anti PD therapy: most often toxicity is low but it can lead to serious autoimmune inflammations
(myositis, pneumonitis, myocarditis, encephalitis, and more).

13.9 FOLLOW UP
Post treatment follow up is individually based on the type of tumor, stage of the tumor and treatment
progression. The follow up includes health history information from the time from the last visit, including
chest CT and locoregional physical examination, most often occuring every 3 - 6 months in NSCLC for a
period of 2 years after which it is 2x a year for the next 5 years, and finally 1x a year. In the case of SCLC,
where the risk for a timely relapse is higher, the patient is followed up every 2-3 months in the first year,
every 3-4 months in years 2 and 3, every 4-6 months in years 4 and 5, and finally 1x a year after.

13.10 PROGNOSIS
The severity of lung cancer is evidenced by the finding that only 20–25% of patients are suitable for
radical surgery at the time of diagnosis. The vast majority of new cases are diagnosed in advanced and
generalized stages. In NSCLC, the best prognosis is achieved in patients in the initial stages after radical
surgery with the 5-year survival rate being 50-80%. In patients with locally advanced findings, 5-year
survival decreases to 30% and median survival ranges from 18 to 24 months.
Patients with generalized affections at the time of diagnosis have a median survival time of 12-18
months. The worst situation is in SCLC, where the mean survival time in untreated patients is 2-3
months, and with chemotherapeutic treatment the survival time extends to 12-14 months. Patients
treated with combined chemoradiotherapy have the longest mean survival time of 14-16 months.

121

14 MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE PLEURA
Jan Dvořák

14.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
Malignant mesothelioma is the only primary pleural cancer. It is a relatively rare disease with an
incidence of 0.1% of all cancers and with an increasing incidence in recent years. At the time of diagnosis,
the median age is approximately 60 years. Occurrence in men is 5-times higher than in women.

14.2 ETIOLOGY
Mesothelioma occurrence is directly related to the inhalation of asbestos microscopic fibers, especially in
industrial areas. The time from asbestos exposure to disease diagnosis is decades long (20–40 years).
Smoking is also considered a risk factor.

14.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
The disease is predominantly characterized by a protracted course with subtle symptoms and the time
from development of mesothelioma until diagnosis is made may range from months to years. The
symptoms may be similar to those of lung tumors. The most common symptoms in mesothelioma are
pain (infiltration of the parietal and visceral pleura and surrounding structures), dyspnoea and cough
(based on fluidothorax). More than 90% of patients report the presence of fluidothorax, usually
haemorrhagic. Rarely, paraneoplastic symptoms occurs.

14.4 DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostic process is similar to lung cancer decision making.
MRI is important in the first phase of the disease for assessing localized findings´ chest wall infiltration
and subsequent decisions about surgery treatment.
Histological and immunohistochemical verification requires a sufficient amount of biological material,
which is generally obtained by videothoracoscopic biopsy.

14.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
Pain in malignant mesothelioma originates from pleural irritation or infiltration of surrounding structures
(mediastinum, heart, diaphragm). Pleuritic pain often has an inflammatory origin, but may also be a
manifestation in lung tumors. Infiltration in the lung apex area may be similar to Pancoast's tumor
possibly even with symptoms of Horner syndrome. In X-ray, we usually observe the obstruction of the
costophrenic angle due to fluidothorax. CT scans can detect pleural thickening, pleural effusion, lung
atelectasis, infiltration of soft tissues and bones. Most of these symptoms can also be seen in other lung
tumors. Malignant pleural effusion is present in lung carcinomas (35%), breast carcinomas (25%) and in
malignant lymphomas (10%). Pericardial effusion may also be caused by mesothelioma infiltration
(another cause - inflammatory pericarditis)
122

14.6 PATHOLOGY
Mesothelioma derives from mesodermal epithelium and may have mesenchymal or epithelial
differentiation. Immunohistochemical examination can distinguish 3 basic types: epithelioid (50%) is
characterized by direct spreading through the pleura, occurrence of the pleural effusion, moreover,
frequently metastases in the lymph nodes (up to 40%) and infiltration of the surrounding structures
(thoracic wall , mediastinum, pericardium, diaphragm) can be found. For the second type - sarcomatous
(occurring in 15%), distant metastases are typical. The last type is mixed type (occurring in 35%)
combining symptoms of both.
Parietal and visceral pleura spread is typical. In advanced disease, lymphogenic and hematogenic
dissemination is frequent. Lymphogenic metastases to the mediastinal lymph nodes are described in half
of the patients. Hematogenic dissemination affects bones, liver, adrenal glands, brain.

14.7 THERAPY
Surgical treatment
Curative surgery (pleuropneumonectomy or pleurectomy) is only possible in small localized findings that
are usually diagnosed by a coincidence. These surgeries are adjuvantly supplemented by chemotherapy
and radiotherapy.
In more advanced findings it is possible to perform palliative surgery - pleural decortication, which
prevents formation of the pleural effusion.

Radiotherapy
This method does not affect patient survival. Due to very limited radiosensitivity of mesothelioma, it is
reserved for palliative treatment. It is mainly used to affect local pain symptoms.
▪ Postoperative radiotherapy: 50–60 Gy / 2 Gy / 25-30 fr.
▪ Palliative RT - typically 30 Gy / 3 Gy / 10 fractions.
Chemotherapy
Chemotherapy also does not affect patient survival. Systemic chemotherapy treatment also has a
palliative effect due to its limited efficacy (up to 20%). Currently, the preferred regimen is a combination
of cisplatin and pemetrexed.
Treatment of malignant effusions
The impulse for the treatment of malignant effusions is the detection of malignant cells in the
effusion fluid or histological positivity of the material obtained by pleural biopsy. Recurrent effusions are
a frequent manifestation of malignant mesothelioma. The aim of the treatment is to reduce effusion and
/ or prevent atelectasis. We try to achieve this by means of pleurodesis.
Pleurodesis is most often performed by instillation of the following substances into the pleural cavity:
talc, bleomycin, doxorubicin, BCG. In rapid filling effusions, insertion of pleuroperitoneal shunt (a

123

catheter that is placed subcutaneously and drains the transudate into the peritoneal cavity) may be an
alternative to pleurodesis.

14.8 POST-THERAPEUTIC COMPLICATIONS
The incidence of treatment complications depends, similarly to lung tumors, on the treatment applied.
The risk of pneumothorax increases with repeated transthoracic effusion punctures.

14.9 FOLLOW-UP
A similar algorithm as for lung tumors can be used for follow-up of the patients

14.10 PROGNOSIS
Prognosis of the disease is poor. Of the early stage patients who undergo radical surgery, about 20%
survive for 5 years. Median survival from the time of the diagnosis is reported in the range of 8–30
months, depending on the stage of the disease. Patients with an epithelioid type of mesothelioma have a
median survival of 22 months compared to 6 months for the other types.

124

15 ESOPHAGEAL CANCER
Markéta Šejdová, Marián Liberko

15.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
Is considered less common cancer. It is found up to 7 times more often in men (especially squamous cell
carcinoma), and is most often diagnosed in the 7th decade of life. Because of environmental and dietary
factors, variability in incidence is high; it is most common in China and in the Middle East belt. Europe is
one of the regions with a low incidence of oesophageal cancer.

15.2 ETIOLOGY
Esophageal cancer has two major histological subtypes: squamous cell carcinoma and
adenocarcinoma. The majority of esophageal cancers are squamous cell carcinomas (90%), but in recent
years the incidence and mortality of adenocarcinomas has increased.
The incidence of squamous cell carcinoma is influenced by smoking and excessive consumption of
alcohol, especially distillates. These 2 risk factors combined potentiate their negative effect. The risk of
developing adenocarcinoma is increased in gastroesophageal reflux, Barret's esophagus and obesity. A
protein-poor, fat-rich diet and exposure to nitrosamines also increase the risk of developing esophageal
cancer, both squamous and adenocarcinoma.

15.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
Early stages tend to have no significant symptoms. Later, after esophageal lumen is significantly
stenotized, dysphagia usually occurs as a first symptom. Other symptoms are: odynophagia, food
regurgitation, vomiting of undigested food, weight loss, coughing, hoarseness (paresis of recurrent
laryngeal nerves), recurrent bronchopneumonia due to food microaspirations. Metastatic spread may be
manifested by ascites, dyspnoea in fluidothorax, tumor cachexia.

15.4 DIAGNOSTICS
For visualization of esophageal involvement and collection of material for histology,
esophagogastroscopy is a basic diagnostic method. To determine the extent of the disease and especially
if considering surgery, it is also necessary to perform another examination - endosonography of the
esophagus which helps to assess the degree of invasion of the esophagus wall and involvement of
regional lymph nodes. Staging examinations include CT scan of the chest, abdomen and lesser pelvis.
Additionally PET / CT can also be performed. Optionally, bronchoscopy can be added to exclude fistula
formation, especially in tumors located near the tracheal bifurcation. In patients considered for
multimodal therapy, functional examination should be done: spirometry, ergometry, heart sonography,
assessment of the nutritional status.

125

15.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
It is necessary to differentiate malignant and benign disorders- esophageal achalasia, Barett's esophagus.
In case of a malignant finding a biopsy is necessary to detect the exact type of the tumor.

15.6 PATHOLOGY
Squamous cell carcinoma occurs mainly in the upper 2/3 of the esophagus and is the most common
(90%) esophageal cancer. Adenocarcinoma - most often occurs in the lower 1/3 of the esophagus or
gastroesophageal junction. Less common histological types include small cell carcinoma, sarcoma,
primary lymphoma, or metastatic involvement from another primary tumor site. Esophageal cancer most
commonly metastases to lymph nodes, liver and lungs.

15.7 THERAPY
Patients with esophageal cancer are treated within a multidisciplinary team. The extent of the disease
(stage), the patient's performance status and his co-morbidities determine treatment strategy chosen.
The treatment of patients with esophageal cancer also varies depending on the histological cell type.
Early stages - cT1-2 cN0 M0
Patients with early, operable stage of the disease are indicated for primary radical surgery - transthoracic
esophagectomy. Possible alternatives for very early stages (T1a) are endoscopic procedures: endoscopic
mucosal resection and endoscopic submucosal dissection. In patients having early stages of esophageal
cancer who refuse to undergo surgery or in whom surgery is contraindicated due to comorbidities,
definitive chemoradiotherapy is a possible alternative that shows better results than radiotherapy alone.
Locally advanced stages – cT3-4, nebo cN1-3 M0
Surgery alone is not recommended because of low R0 resection rates and shorter survival time when
compared with multimodal therapy.
▪

Squamous cell carcinoma

Non-adjuvant chemoradiotherapy with subsequent re-staging and surgery is a standard course of action
for patients in a good general condition. Cytostatics such a cDDP / fluoropyrimidines, CBDCA / paclitaxel
are given concomitantly with irradiation, possibly potentiated by FOLFOX treatment regimen. An
alternative for patients refusing surgery, or for whom surgery is contraindicated due to comorbidities is
definitive chemoradiotherapy (regimen similar to neoadjuvant therapy) that is having better results than
radiotherapy (with subsequent patient follow-up or with salvage esophagectomy).
▪

Adenocarcinoma

Perioperative chemotherapy is the standard practice in adenocarcinomas of the distal esophagus and
gastroesophageal junction. The options are: 3 cycles before and 3 cycles after surgery (ECF / ECX / EOF /
EOX), or currently preferred FLOT regime 4 cycles before and 4 cycles after surgery, which achieves a
higher rate of complete pathological remissions, R-0 resections and prolongs DFS and OS. The second
treatment strategy option for adenocarcinomas is non-adjuvant chemoradiotherapy with subsequent
surgery. Chemotherapy regimens are similar to squamous cell carcinoma treatment regimes. There is no
direct comparison for the efficacy of perioperative chemotherapy and neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy,
but comparative studies are ongoing now.
126

Metastatic disease and palliative therapy
Metastatic esophageal cancer is an incurable disease with poor prognosis. Most patients die within a
year after diagnosis is made despite proper cancer treatment. Palliative chemotherapy is possible and
slightly more effective in adenocarcinomas than in other types. Regarding the general condition of the
patient, monotherapy or a combination of cytostatics is considered. Targeted transtuzumab (anti-Her2)
therapy in combination with cDDP / fluoropyrimidine may be considered as the first-line in patients with
gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma, assuming Her2 tumor expression. In the second line, a
combination of taxanes and ramucirumab (anti-VEGFR) is possible. Targeted treatment is reserved only
for patients in a good general condition: PS 0-1. Symptomatic therapy alone is indicated in patients with
a worse general condition.
For tumors that bleed and painful metastases, radiotherapy (external or brachytherapy) can also be
used for palliative purposes. Another treatment option is an insertion of the stent into the region of
esophageal stenosis to restore the patency of the esophagus. Due to the frequent progression of the
condition and frequent impossibility for a causal treatment, it is necessary to ensure a way for food
intake. For this purpose, stent insertion, PEG insertion, laser removal of esophageal lung tumor or
radiotherapy (external or brachytherapy) are used.

15.8 POST-THERAPEUTIC COMPLICATIONS
After radical surgical treatment, swallowing disorders and negative effect on food intake may occur.
After radical radiotherapy, fibrous changes of the esophagus and resulting problems (stenosis, occlusion)
may occur.

15.9 FOLLOW-UP
After radical treatment, follow-up should be every 3 months, after 2 years the interval can be longer,
physical examination should always be done. Based on the problems and findings made during
examination - endoscopy, imaging examination, etc should be ordered.

15.10 PROGNOSIS
Over the past 30 years, patient survival has improved, but still, as most of the patients are diagnosed in
late stages of the disease, survival remains very poor. Only about 1/3 of patients after radical treatment
(surgical or chemoradiotherapy) survive for 2 years. 5-year survival is about 10%. Important prognostic
factor is the rate of weight loss, more than 10% means poor prognosis.

127

16 GASTRIC CANCERS
Markéta Šejdová, Marián Liberko

16.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
Gastric cancers are among the most common cancer diseases worldwide with significant differences in
their incidence in different regions. The highest incidence is in China, Japan, East Asia, Eastern Europe
and South America. In Western Europe and the United States, unlike in other cancers, the incidence of
gastric cancer is declining. Another interesting trend is a decrease in the incidence of tumors of the distal
part of the stomach and an increase in the incidence of proximal adenocarcinomas of cardia and
gastroesophageal junction with more aggressive behavior and worse prognosis, the incidence of this
type of cancer increased dramatically in patients under 40 years.

16.2 ETIOLOGY
As for other diseases, risk factors for gastric cancer are obesity, increased caloric intake, a fat-rich and
high-salt diet, fiber-poor diet, and dietary nitrosamines consumption. Insufficient intake of vitamin A and
C, smoking, alcohol abuse, chronic atrophic gastritis, Helicobacter pylori infection and Ebstein-Barr virus
also act as predisposing factors. Barret's esophagus is a precancerosis occuring in patients with
gastroesophageal reflux and later may develop to gastroesophageal junction carcinomas. Carcinomas
also occur more frequently on surfaces affected by polyps and at the site of anastomosis after resection
procedures in ulcer disease. Approximately 1-3% of gastric tumors are part of hereditary cancer
syndromes: hereditary diffuse gastric cancer, Lynch syndrome, familial adenomatous polyposis, PeutzJeghers syndrome.

16.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
Gastric cancer has no typical symptoms. The most common manifestation is non-characteristic pressure
feeling or pain in the epigastrium and sudden or gradual loss of appetite, nausea is also frequent. In
advanced disease processes when pylorus is obstructed, vomiting of undigested food during gastrectasis
occur. Dysphagia may be the first symptom of a cardiac tumor. Bleeding leading to gradual anemization
may also manifest the disease. Weakness, fatigue and weight loss are common general manifestations.
Ascites, fluidothorax and tumor cachexia are manifestations of generalized disease.

16.4 DIAGNOSTICS
Obligatory examinations include esophagogastroscopy with a biopsy of a suspected tumor mass or in a
normal endoscopic findings and suspected diffuse gastric cancer - random gastric biopsy. An important
method to determine the depth of invasion of the stomach wall and to assess regional lymphadenopathy
is endosonography. Prefered staging method is CT scan of the chest, abdomen and lesser pelvis
(especially in women who are at risk of metastases spread to the ovary - the so-called Krukenberger
tumor). It is important to determine the level of tumor markers: CEA, Ca19-9, Ca72-4, which are
important for diagnosis and later for monitoring an effect of the treatment.

128

Facultative examinations include scintigraphy of the bone, PET / CT of the trunk (in suspicion of
spreading and before radical surgery being considered). In some cases, exploratory laparoscopy (possibly
with peritoneal lavage) is performed to exclude serose surface spreading.

16.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
Differential diagnosis clearly depends on the first symptoms that a patient presents with. The most
important is the differentiation of benign peptic ulcer and benign polyp. If the malignancy of the disease
is confirmed, precise histological examination and tumor type determination are required, as different
treatment strategies apply to different diseases. These are mainly GIST - gastrointestinal stromal tumors
(70% have origo in the stomach), primary lymphomas (most often MALT's stomach). Other tumors are
less common: squamous cell carcinoma, small cell ca, undifferentiated carcinoma, carcinoid, sarcomas,
or metastases from another primary tumor (melanoma, lobular-breast cancer).

16.6 PATHOLOGY
90% of stomach cancers are adenocarcinomas. Based on Lauren classification following types of gastric
cancers are recognized: intestinal type (development often on precancerous surfaces- gastric atrophy,
intestinal metaplasia, more often found in men, incidence higher in older age, Helicobacter pylori
infection and dietary habits predispose), diffuse type (unrelated to precancerosis surface, younger age,
more often found in women, hereditary factors contribute, worse prognosis) and mixed type.
Other histological types are GIST, MALT, carcinoid, sarcoma and other rare types.

16.7 THERAPY
Patients with gastric cancer are treated within a multidisciplinary team. The extent of the disease (stage),
the patient's performance status and his co-morbidities determine the type of treatment strategy
chosen. The treatment of patients with gastric cancer also varies depending on the histological type
identified. Surgical resection of early stages is potentially curative, however, most patients have relapse
of the disease after resection. Therefore, a multimodal approach is the standard for stage IB and higher.
Early stages cT1 N0 M0
For tumors T1a and T1b stage, treatment options include endoscopic mucosal resection or endoscopic
submucosal dilation. In early stage tumors not suitable for endoscopic treatment, the method of choice
is subtotal or total gastrectomy with lymphadenectomy.
Advanced stages cT>1 N1-3 M0
In cases of localized disease, with no obvious signs of generalization, in a patient with generally good
health status, we choose a radical treatment strategy - usually a multimodal approach.
Nowadays, ideal way of practice is considered perioperative chemotherapy and then radical surgery.
Either 3 cycles of chemo before and 3 cycles after surgery (ECF / ECX / EOF / EOX), or FLOT regimen of 4
cycles before and 4 cycles after surgery is possible.

129

The second way of managing advanced stages of these cancers is primary radical surgery - partial or total
gastrectomy with removal of pericardial and perigastric nodes - D1 dissection, including larger and lesser
omentum. In order to further radicalize the procedure, it is recommended to also excise lymph nodes
around left gastric artery , common hepatic artery., splenic artery and truncus coeliacus - D2 dissection.
Adequate postoperative care is necessary after the procedure. Based on a definitive histological finding
(depth of invasion into the stomach wall, lymph node involvement, positive resection margins, residual
disease), the patient is indicated for adjuvant chemoradiotherapy or independent chemotherapy usually
using fluropyrimidine-based regimens and platinum derivatives.
Metastatic disease
Due to non-specific manifestations in early stages, a patient is often diagnosed late in inoperable or
generalized disease stage (most often liver, lung and bone metastases). Depending on the patient's main
complaints, we consider palliative surgery - palliative conjunctival surgery (gastroenteroanastomosis),
palliative radiotherapy, or palliative chemotherapy.
The prognosis of generalized disease is poor, most patients die within 1 year of generalization.
Targeted therapy offers partial improvement in the prognosis of patients with metastatic gastric cancer.
For tumors that express Her2, a combination of cDDP / fluoropyrimidine and trastuzumab (anti-Her2) in
the first line is possible. The second line is a combination of paclitaxel and ramucirumab (anti-VEGFR). In
another line, irinotecan use is possible - but must be considered for each patient individually due to the
limited efficacy of palliative chemotherapy in later stages of the treatment ,pre-treatment, and the
patient's general condition. Depending on the patient's general condition, only symptomatic, supportive
care is often provided

16.8 FOLLOW-UP
In the first year after radical therapy, follow-up every 3 months is advised, we check patient´s clinical
status, laboratory values - blood count, biochemical parameters, cancer markers: CEA, Ca19-9, or Ca72-4.
After 6 months we perform gastroscopy; CT scan of the abdomen and lesser pelvis and X-ray of the lungs
once a year. In the 2-nd and 3-rd year of remission, clinical examination, laboratory testing, CEA and
Ca19-9 values should be measured every 6 months. Gastroscopy, abdominal and lesser pelvis CT scan
and lung X-ray should be done once a year. In the following years, all of the above examinations should
be done once a year. In case of new symptoms appearing we proceed accordingly. Long-term vitamin
B12 substitution in patients after proximal or total gastrectomy is fully indicated. It is suitable to
cooperate with the outpatient nutrition clinic for sipping prescription.

16.9 PROGNOSIS
Only in patients after radical surgery with a disease limited to submucosis, the 5-year survival rate is up
to 85%. Unfortunately, at this stage of the disease, there are a few patients found and most of these
cases are likely incidental findings discovered during surgery which was usually indicated for another
reason. Despite radical treatment, in tumor invasion through the stomach wall, only about 50% of
patients survive for 5 years. When locoregional lymph nodes are affected, 5-years survival rate falls
below 20%, and in distant metastases almost no one survives for 5 years.

130

17 MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE LIVER, GALLBLADDER AND BILIARY
TRACT
Markéta Šejdová, Marián Liberko

17.1 HEPATOCELLULAR CARCINOMA
17.1.1 Epidemiology
Europe is not considered an area with a high incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma as opposed to East
Asia, where HCC accounts for up to 50% of all tumors. The incidence coincides with high incidence of
hepatitis B and hepatitis C in these areas. However, there is generally higher incidence of HCC in
developing countries.

17.1.2 Etiology
In up to 90% of cases hepatocellular carcinoma occurs on the background of liver cirrhosis. Major
etiological factors include hepatitis B and C, liver cirrhosis on an alcoholic basis or on toxonutritive
etiology. Aflatoxin in food is considered another etiological factor. Some metabolic diseases such as
hemochromatosis, Wilson's disease and porphyria cutanea tarda also increase the risk of developing
HCC.

17.1.3 Symptomatology
Generally speaking, symptoms of the disease are non-specific. Early stages can be completely
asymptomatic and usually HCC in this stage is discovered during liver examinations ordered for other
reasons. More advanced disease stages manifest as abdominal pain, abdominal discomfort, fatigue,
elevated temperature, anorexia, weight loss, icterus and signs of portal hypertension. Generalized
disease usually manifests as ascites, encephalopathy and cachectization of the patient.

17.1.4 Diagnostics
Ultrasound is the first choice imaging method and can also be used as a screening tool for risk groups. To
more accurately assess the extent of the disease and to consider the possibility of surgery treatment it is
appropriate to scan all the abdomen and lesser pelvis, or order MRI liver examination. Additional
examinations such as CT angiography are to determine the possibility of resectability of the tumor.
Hepatocellular carcinoma is one of the few malignancies in which the diagnosis can be made only based
on the results of imaging methods (CT or MRI) - abnormal arterial oxygen saturation and late (venous)
contrast elution results are typical. In the case of ambiguous findings in imaging examinations, biopsy for
histological verification is necessary to accurately determine the nature of the lesion. Laboratory testing
for high levels of alpha-fetoprotein, which is produced in 70% of hepatocellular carcinomas can be made,
however, lower values, may also be present in simple cirrhosis. To exclude generalization of the disease
we then use CT scan of the chest, skeletal scintigraphy or PET / CT. Before any intervention is considered,

131

important part of the diagnostic process is also examination of the functional status of the liver
parenchyma using Child-Pugh classification.

17.1.5 Differential diagnostics
Other diseases of the hepatobiliary tract (benign and malignant) and in particular the exclusion of
metastatic liver disease from another tumor.

17.1.6 Pathology
Hepatocellular carcinoma types described are multinodular, large, and diffuse type; more detail in
pathology textbooks.

17.1.7 Therapy
Prognostic factors are AFP value, patient performance status and liver function test results (ChildPugh classification). Surgical treatment alone is potentially curative, although only a small proportion of
the patients can undergo surgery (mainly due to the extent of the disease and poor functional status of
the cirrhotic liver parenchyma).
One possible way is to perform a liver transplant - it treats both the tumor and associated liver
cirrhosis, a disadvantage is the subsequent immunosuppression. Indications for liver transplantation
follow so-called Milan criteria. Another surgical treatment option is a liver resection: typical and atypical
depending on the extent of the disease. Contraindications of the surgery, even with surgically accessible
tumors, may be a liver failure, Child-Pugh class B and C and generalized disease.
Other treatment methods only have palliative effect (catheter ablation, microwave ablation,
embolization and chemoembolization, radiotherapy, chemotherapy - of minimal importance). A
possibility for systemic treatment of generalized hepatocellular carcinoma is targeted therapy. For this
type of treatment tyrosine kinase inhibitors are available; in the first line sorafenib, after progression of
the disease -regorafenib.

17.1.8 Complications
Liver transplantation can cause a number of complications, tissue rejection, development of other
tumors due to immunosuppression,etc. Surgery in general may be complicated by bleeding, injury to
surrounding tissues, shock, decompensation of so far non-existent liver lesion. Both chemotherapy and
radiotherapy are accompanied by nausea and vomiting, and in chemotherapy in addition to
haematological toxicity, liver failure may occur.

17.1.9 Follow-up
Patients should be followed up at an interval of 3 months for the first 2 years, followed by an interval of
6 months, hepatic function tests and CT/MRI imaging of liver should be done in patients after radical
treatment. Patients during palliative therapy should be followed every 2 months.

132

17.1.10 Prognosis
Size of the tumor and its differentiation are prognostic factors. Prognosis is worse when cirrhosis,
metastases, worse performance status of the patient, or high AFP values are present. In patients
undergoing curative resection, the 5-year survival rate is about 20%. Generalization of the disease is
common - mostly to the liver, lymph nodes, lungs and bones. Most patients are diagnosed late, when
resection is impossible.

17.2 CANCER OF THE GALLBLADDER AND BILIARY TRACT
17.2.1 Epidemiology
Gallbladder cancer is more common in women, bile duct cancer is equally represented in both genders.
Most often diagnosis is made in age over 70.

17.2.2 Etiology
In gallbladder cancer, cholecystolithiasis (so called porcelain gallbladder) and polyps are risk factors. Risk
factors for biliary tract cancer are biliary tree anomalies, ulcerative colitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, and
primary sclerosing cholangitis.

17.2.3 Symptomatology
Gallbladder cancer: Early stages are usually asymptomatic and can be coincidentally discovered in
cholecystectomy assessment for other causes. Late stages symptoms can be similar to a benign
gallbladder disease: nausea, vomiting, pressure in the right hypochondrium, loss of appetite, weight loss,
in late stage also icterus and recurrent cholangitis can occur.
Biliary tree cancer: painless icterus is the most common symptom in these patients.

17.2.4 Diagnostics
Gallbladder tumors are often diagnosed incidentally in a tissue removed during cholecystectomy
(resecate). Prior to a planned resection procedure of a known gallbladder cancer, liver function tests,
abdominal CT scan and lung CT scan are recommended to determine the extent of the disease. In icterus
patients or in patients with operable cancer of the biliary tract as a preoperative examination, MRCP is
indicated as a surgery feasibility confirmation method. ERCP is a method suitable for obtaining a tissue
sample for histological examination or detailed examination of a stenosis of unclear etiology but also
suitable for invasive solution of obstructive jaundice by the insertion of a stent. Before surgery CEA and
Ca19-9 values should be measured.

17.2.5 Differential diagnostics
It is necessary to distinguish between benign and malignant disease, which is often very difficult due to
the difficulty of biopsy procedure.

133

17.2.6 Pathology
About 85% of gallbladder tumors are adenocarcinomas, the remaining 15% may have squamous or
mixed differentiation. First, the tumor spreads locally, then lymph nodes and liver are frequently
affected - either through direct ingrowth or via the bloodstream spread. The vast majority of cancers of
the bile duct are adenocarcinomas (90%), rarely adenosquamous carcinoma, leiomyosarcoma can occur.
They spread mainly locoregally and metastasize to the liver.

17.2.7 Therapy
Surgery
The only potentially curative method is a surgery. Although cholecystectomy is usually indicated in cases
other than for suspicion for malignant tumor, in about 1-2% of cholecystectomies, a malignant
gallbladder tumor is found. In non-advanced pT1a tumors (spread limited to mucous membranes),
sufficient procedure is a simple cholecystectomy. In advanced disease stages, wedge resection of the
liver bed of the gallbladder and lymphadenectomy in the area of the porta hepatis is also indicated with
the aim to achieve R0 resection. In bile duct carcinomas, resectability is only possible in about 20% of
tumors. Prior to surgery, profound diagnostic process (CT, MRI, MRCP) is required to ensure feasibility of
the surgery. If the finding is to be inoperable also palliative procedures can have a good effect on the
patient. Palliative procedures include endoscopic methods - insertion of a stent into the bile duct or
when the patient is relieved of biliary tract obstruction via ERCP or PTC.
Radiotherapy
The role of adjuvant external radiotherapy is yet not clearly established. It can be considered in more
advanced findings with positive lymph nodes and in R1 resection procedures. In extrahepatic bile duct
cancers (so-called Klatskin tumor), brachytherapy may have a good palliative effect. Radiation source is
inserted via external (percutaneous transhepatic) drainage access into the external biliary tract. Ir 192
HDR gamma emitter is used as the radiation source.
Chemotherapy
Adjuvant chemotherapy based on fluoropyrimidines or gemcitabine has a limited benefit in terms of
prolonging the survival of the patients. 5-year survival rate is reported to be 5-15%. However,
chemotherapy can have palliative and analgesic effect. Slightly better results are achieved by a
combination of both methods, ie chemoradiotherapy. In generalized disease, the cDDP / gemcitabine is a
standard combination used.

17.2.8 Complications
Surgery may be complicated by bleeding and injury to surrounding tissues. Chemotherapy is associated
with nausea, vomiting and haematological toxicity. Liver failure may occur. Brachytherapy via insertion of
external devices can lead to cholangitis.

17.2.9 Follow-up
Patient should be monitored at regular basis on a department where major treatment was provided for
him - surgery, gastroenterology, oncology. Monitoring in patients after a curative intervention includes
oncological markers and CT every 3 months for 2 years, after that every 6 months, and 5 years after
134

intervention, the monitoring interval can be extended to one year. During palliative therapy, follow-up
every 2–3 months is recommended.

17.2.10 Prognosis
The prognosis is affected by a lymph node involvement and a local spread. Gallbladder cancer that only
affects mucosa has a 5-year survival rate of about 80%, while patients with lymph node involvement
have a 5-year survival rate of 0-10%. In patients with bile duct cancer, the prognosis is related to the
extent of disability, patients with distal bile affection have a slightly better prognosis, median survival is
12-20 months.

135

18 MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE PANCREAS
Markéta Šejdová, Marián Liberko

18.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
Malignant tumors of the pancreas are a disease that affects older patients, usually over 70, more often
men. The incidence and mortality curves rise practically simultaneously, due to a late diagnosis time and
chemo- and radio-resistance of the disease. It is one of the most malignant diseases with poor prognosis
even in the early stages. Over 2/3 of new cases are diagnosed in the metastatic stage.

18.2 ETIOLOGY
The main risk factors for pancreatic cancer are smoking and alcohol. The composition of the diet is also
not negligible - the increased amount of fat and meat in the diet means an increased risk, the sufficiency
of fruits and vegetables lowers the risk of developing pancreatic cancer. Other risk factors include
diabetes mellitus I. and II. type (often this may be the first manifestation of pancreatic cancer). A small
percentage of cancers are genetically determined. Carriers of BRCA2 mutation, patients with Lynch,
Peutz-Jeghers, Li-Fraumeni syndrome and individuals with a history of chronic pancreatitis or infected by
Helicobacter pylori are at higher risk.

18.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
In the early stages symptoms are very uncharacteristic and may resemble functional dyspeptic
syndromes. Later on, there is a pain in the epigastrium with propagation to the left side and to the back.
Clinical picture is characterized by a pain, loss of appetite, weight loss and general deterioration of the
patient. In more advanced tumors, the pain is permanent, sometimes the patient assumes a relief
position where the pancreas moves away from the retropancreatic nerve plexuses (bending forward,
prone position, kneeling position). In case of tumors in the head of the pancreas, the first symptom of
the disease may be an obstructive icterus. Ascites and liver metastases are also often present.

18.4 DIAGNOSTICS
Due to the asymptomatic nature of the early stages and the lack of screening, the diagnosis is often
made late. Often (reported in up to 2/3 of the cases), the very first symptoms of the disease may already
be due to metastases, particularly in the liver, or causing obstruction of the biliary tract in tumors of the
pancreatic head. However, it is necessary to obtain a comprehensive picture of the extent of the cancer
spread in order to decide about all therapeutic options. Basic, so-called obligatory examination methods
include ultrasound of the abdomen, endoscopic ultrasound to assess the local progression of the disease
and FNAB for tissue specimen collection. When considering surgery it is necessary to perform CT-scan of
the abdomen and lesser pelvis or MR, MRCP, CT-angiography to assess the involvement of vascular
structures. Other examinations include lung X-ray and tumor marker screening, especially for Ca19-9 and
CEA, which are important both for diagnosis and later for monitoring the effect of the treatment. Other
additional and individually optional methods are ERCP, PET / CT, or explorative laparotomy/laparoscopy

136

(for verification by biopsy analysis). Based on the patient's problems, we also indicate other
examinations, such as skeletal scintigraphy for skeletal pain diagnostics.

18.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
Differential diagnosis clearly depends on the first symptoms a patient presents with to the doctor. In
case of an unclear dyspeptic problems, first, it is necessary to exclude other diseases of the
gastrointestinal tract (malignant, benign). In an obstructive icterus, one needs to exclude stenosis of the
bile ducts caused by a tumor or by an external compression. Possible causes of compression are
lymphadenopathy or cancer of the surrounding organs. Obstruction of the bile ducts also resulting in the
obstructive icterus can be caused by lithiasis.

18.6 PATHOLOGY
95% of all cases of pancreatic cancer are ductal adenocarcinoma of the outlet type originating from
the exocrine part of the pancreas. Typically there is a pronounced stromal response around tumors mass,
which is believed to be the cause of the tumor chemo and radio-resistance. Due to the frequent
perineural spread, severe back pain is also typical. Other types of pancreatic cancer include acinar cell
carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, adenosquamous carcinoma, undifferentiated carcinoma, mucinous
carcinoma, or papillary-cystic carcinoma. Rare diseases include endocrine pancreatic tumors, so-called
neuroendocrine tumors with better prognosis, different treatment and often with the production of
specific hormonal substances (insulin, glucagon, gastrin, VIP, serotonin).
Cystic neoplasm accounts for about 10-15% of all cystic lesions of the pancreas. The most common
cancers of this type are: serous cystadenoma, intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) and
mucinous cystic neoplasm. Mucinous neoplasms have a potential for malignancy or may be malignant at
the time of the diagnosis. Non-mucinous lesions do not have the malignant potential.

18.7 THERAPY
The therapy of pancreatic cancer is dependent on the extent of the disease. In multidisciplinary team
environment it is necessary to cooperate X-ray technician, surgeon, gastroenterologist, oncologist and
radiation oncologist to determine the optimal treatment strategy. The disease can be categorized as
resectable, potentially resectable, locally advanced and metastatic.
Resectable tumor
In general, if technically possible in the early stages of the disease, the patient is indicated for surgery.
However, this is usually true in less than 20% of patients. Pancreatic resection is performed (Whipple,
Traverso-Longmire procedure), resection of collecting lymph nodes and the target is R0 resection.
Adjuvant chemotherapy is indicated after surgery. 6-month gemcitabine therapy is a standard choice.
Presently, a modified FOLFIRINOX regimen, which is commonly used in metastatic disease in patients in
good general condition, has been shown as a possible alternative in adjuvant administration. An
alternative is adjuvant chemoradiotherapy, especially in R1 resection.

137

Potentially resectable tumor
Preoperative treatment is recommended. An option is a non-adjuvant chemotherapy (mFOLFIRINOX for
3 months) then re-staging with resection consideration. Preferred alternative is a non-adjuvant
chemotherapy for 3 months, then re-staging; in response to chemotherapy, chemoradiotherapy is
continued with further re-staging and resection.
Locally advanced disease
Those are only pancreatic tumors that are not considered to be potentially resistant. The treatment
options are similar to those of a potentially resectable disease except for a subsequent surgery.
Metastatic disease
Over 2/3 of the patients are diagnosed in the metastatic stage; most often mets in the liver are present.
The prognosis is poor, most patients die within a year from diagnosis. Overall median survival is
approximately 8–10 months. For a long time, gemcitabine monotherapy has been the standard choice in
metastatic pancreatic cancer. Currently, mFOLFIRINOX is the option for patients in PS 0-1 with normal
liver function tests. It prolongs survival approximately two times when compared with gemcitabine, but
at the cost of higher toxicity. Another new treatment option is the combination of gemcitabine and nabpaclitaxel but also only for patients in a good general condition ,PS 0-1 without abnormalities found in
liver function tests. After progression of the tumor during first-line of palliative chemotherapy, treatment
for the next line may be considered, but usually due to the aggressiveness of the disease, poor patient
status and chemoresistance, it is indicated only in a small proportion of the patients. New treatment
option is also the combination of fluoropyrimidine and nanoliposomal irinotecan. Only symptomatic and
supportive treatment is indicated in patients already in a poor general condition - PS 3-4.

18.8 FOLLOW-UP
After resection procedure and adjuvant therapy, the patient is followed every 3 months for the first year,
then every 6 months. The follow-up examination includes clinical examination, CBC, biochemistry lab,
tumor markers, lung X-ray every 6 months and sonography or CT of the abdomen and lesser pelvis every
6 months for the first year. After palliative treatment in incurable disease stages, follow-up as needed.

18.9 PROGNOSIS
Pancreatic cancer is rarely curable disease. The greatest chance for the patient exists when the tumor is
localized only in the pancreas and is resectable. However, this stage of the disease is detected in less
than 20% of the patients and even in completely resected tumors, the 5-year survival rate is only about
5%. In tumors smaller than 2 cm with no lymph node metastases and no growth through the pancreatic
capsule, the 5-year survival is about 20%. Taking into account patients with all stages of the disease, the
5-year survival is only about 1%, with the majority of patients dying within one year. Unfortunately,
pancreatic cancer is still a very poorly treatable disease with poor therapeutic results, and therefore, the
treatment strategy is always strictly considered, taking into account the extent of the disease, the
patient's general condition, so that it benefits the patient and does not impair his quality of life.

138

19 COLORECTAL CARCINOMA
Markéta Šejdová, Marián Liberko

19.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
Colorectal cancer is the second most common cancer in men (after prostate cancer) and women (after
breast cancer). The incidence is higher in men. The Czech Republic ranks among the leading in the
incidence of this disease worldwide. The risk of developing colorectal cancer increases from about 50
years of age and is most commonly diagnosed around the 70s. Left-sided cancers are more common.

19.2 ETIOLOGY
The specific cause of the disease is unknown, but many factors - especially dietary habits, obesity,
physical inactivity, smoking, environmental influences are associated with the onset of the disease.
Increased risk of development is associated with, for example, a diet rich in fat, sausages and low in fiber,
vitamins. Crohn's disease and a history of ulcerative colitis are also risk factors for colorectal cancer.
Another risk factor is the presence of adenomatous polyps in the intestine. Higher risk of malignant
transformation is found in villous and tubulovillous polyps. Approximately 5–10% of colorectal
carcinomas are genetically determined: Lynch syndrome - hereditary non-polyposis colorectal carcinoma
(HNPCC), familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, carriers of the BRCA1,2
mutation.

19.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
The initial stages of the disease are asymptomatic, sometimes indeterminate abdominal discomfort,
flatulence, change of stool character, loss of appetite; symptoms commonly attributed to other diseases
(gallbladder, gastroduodenal ulcer, irritable bowel). It can be simplified as, the symptoms of right-sided
tumors are: indeterminate pain, abdominal pressure, fatigue, weakness due to the manifestation of
anemia from chronic, occult blood loss. In left-sided tumors it is often alternation of constipation and
diarrhea, sometimes symptoms from intestinal occlusion (ileus) - nausea, vomiting. In the area of the
rectum, apart from bleeding, it is a feeling of fullness, pressure, constraints on the stool, urgency,
tenesmus.

19.4 DIAGNOSTICS
Due to the high incidence of the disease in the Czech Republic, colorectal cancer screening has been
introduced. It can be divided into two parts. In the first group of 50-54 year-olds, a test for blood in stool
is done annually. In case of negative finding, repeat the test once a year. In a positive occult bleeding
test, screening colonoscopy at accredited sites is indicated. In case of a negative finding in colonoscopy,
further colonoscopy is indicated after 10 years. In case of positive tumor finding - surgical and
oncological treatment. If polyps are found, a control colonoscopy according to valid recommendations is
ordered. In the second group of subjects aged 55 years and over, a faecal occult blood test or a primary
screening colonoscopy is possible. The next procedure is selected accordingly to the finding, similarly to
the first group.
139

Per rectum examination is simple and may reveal a lesion within 8-10 cm of the sphincter. The
examination should be an automatic part of the physical examination. It is irreplaceable clinical
examination, the only one that can practically determine tumor fixation.
Colonoscopy provides information on the entire colon mucosa, and is also used to obtain a biopsy
specimen to determine the etiology of a possible lesion. Histological findings are required prior to
initiation of treatment, except in cases where the patient is acutely operated for an ileous condition.
Tests to determine the extent of the disease (staging) include X-ray examination of the chest (in more
advanced tumors, chest CT is preferable), CT examination of the abdomen and pelvis. In rectal tumors,
we complement this with MRI of pelvis and endosonographic examination of the rectum to determine
the extent of the tumor, i.e. the depth of invasion through the intestinal wall. Complete biochemical
sampling, complete blood count, tumor markers (especially CEA, Ca 19-9) are among the basic
examinations.

19.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
It is necessary to exclude other organic disorders of the intestine, non-malignant - Crohn's disease,
ulcerative colitis.

19.6 PATHOLOGY
95 % of the tumors are adenocarcinomas; the rest are small cell carcinomas, squamous cell carcinomas,
carcinoids, undifferentiated carcinomas. Non-epithelial malignancies are lymphomas and sarcomas,
mucosal melanomas.
In addition to classical histology, molecular-biological methods are now used more frequently to
investigate prognostic and predictive disease markers. In stage II it is an MSI examination - examination
of MMR proteins expression in tumor tissue. When considering treatment for stage IV, it is essential to
consider the mutation status of the RAS and BRAF oncogene that are examined by the PCR method.

19.7 THERAPY
Colon
Stage 0 (Tis, N0, M0)
Tis tumors are indicated (unless otherwise contraindicated) for endoscopic procedures (local excision or
polypectomy into healthy tissue) and follow-up by the gastroenterologist; adjuvant oncological
treatment is not indicated.
Stage I (T1-2, N0, M0)
Treatment of localized, but more advanced, intestinal tumors consists of primary resection with removal
of lymphatics (the necessary extent of the procedure is dependent on the location and size of the
tumor). The procedures are performed mostly during laparotomy, newly also by laparoscopy, if the
extent of the finding allows it. Surgical treatment is essential in colorectal cancer and is the first method
of choice. Adjuvant cancer treatment is not indicated.

140

Stage II (T3-4, N0, M0)
Primary surgical treatment. Adjuvant chemotherapy according to definitive histology is possible after
molecular examination of MMR in tumor tissue. Patients of II. clinical stage with MMR defect, i.e. MSI-H,
do not benefit from fluoropyrimidine-based adjuvant chemotherapy. In patients without MMR defect,
i.e. MSS, MSI-L, chemotherapy is indicated for 6 months.
Stage III (T any, N1-2, M0)
Primary treatment is surgery. Adjuvant chemotherapy based on fluoropyrimidines and oxaliplatin
(FOLFOX) is always indicated in patients in good general condition. 6 months of adjuvant chemotherapy
have long been standard. Due to the considerable neurotoxicity of oxaliplatin, often irreversible,
possibilities have been sought to reduce the duration of oxaliplatin administration without adversely
affecting patient survival. A new standard for at least a portion of patients in stage III - in particular pT3
pN1 - is a 3 month adjuvant chemotherapy based on fluoropyrimidines and oxaliplatin (XELOX).
Stage IV (T any, N any, M1)
Patient care is secured through a multidisciplinary team. Colorectal carcinoma is most commonly
generalized into nodules, liver, lung, peritoneum. It is an incurable disease. In the treatment of
metastatic colorectal cancer chemotherapy and targeted treatment (according to the mutation status of
RAS, BRAF) are used. An important part is also cooperation with the surgeon - liver metastasectomy,
pulmonary metastases (primarily or after previous non-adjuvant cancer treatment); methods of
metastasis treatment by catheter ablation or microwave ablation.
Spectrum of cytostatics used in the treatment of colorectal cancer (both adjuvant and palliative)
includes mainly fluoropyrimidines: 5-fluorouracil; or an oral derivative capecitabine, other formulations
widely used are oxaliplatin, irinotecan and combinations thereof. In highly pre-treated patients, a new
cytostatic agent, tipiracil / trifluridine, may be given.
Another possibility of treatment are preparations of targeted (biological) therapy. They are
monoclonal antibodies binding to specific receptors (cetuximab and panitumumab: anti-EGFR,
bevacizumab: anti-VEGF, aflibercept: solubile VEGF receptor), and a family of tyrosine kinase inhibitors
(regorafenib – blocking a number of intracellular kinases and signaling pathways).
For monoclonal antibodies, it is necessary to know the mutation status of RAS and BRAF oncogene,
since anti-EGFR preparations are completely ineffective in mutated RAS and, in addition, their
application is associated with lower survival compared to chemotherapy without monoclonal antibodies,
with the exception of anti-VEGF preparations, which can be administered in both mtRAS and wild type
RAS. The combination of anti-EGFR and anti-VEGF preparation concomitantly is not recommended due
to toxicity and lower survival of patients treated with this combination. Sequential administration, on the
other hand, is standard in the continuous care of patients with generalized colorectal cancer. Due to
advances in imaging, surgery, oncological and supportive care, the median survival of patients with
generalized colorectal cancer is now approaching 30 months.

Rectum
The rectum can be divided anatomically into the lower (up to 5 cm), middle (5–10 cm) and upper (10–15
cm) from the anal verge. For small tumors (T1) local surgical or endoscopic procedures are possible. In
early but more advanced stages (T2) the possibility of primary surgery with postoperative chemotherapy
and radiotherapy according to definitive histology. In more advanced tumors: T3 N1, evaluated according
141

to MRI of pelvis, EUS is recommended for neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery. As rectal
tumors tend to recur locally, the therapeutic effort is aimed at preventing these recurrences.
Neoadjuvant radiotherapy and chemoradiotherapy have proven to be good methods that can
significantly reduce the number of local recurrences. The reason for neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy is
lower toxicity of the treatment to the patient, possibility of tumor downstaging and possibility of more
sphincter-sparing procedures.
Surgical treatment of rectal tumors involves resection of the rectum, mesorectum from surrounding
structures in the lesser pelvis. This procedure is called total mesorectal excision (TME). By introducing
this type of operation in combination with preoperative cancer treatment, the number of local
recurrences of rectal cancer in the lesser pelvis was significantly reduced. If resection cannot be
performed for low tumor placement, rectal amputation (abdominoperineal resection - Miles operation)
with permanent stoma is performed. The alternative in patients refusing surgery, stoma, or surgery
contraindicated for internal comorbidities the possibility is definitive chemoradiotherapy.

19.8 POST-TREATMENT COMPLICATIONS
Post-treatment complications are related to the method of therapy used. Surgical treatment may be
acutely accompanied by bleeding, peritonitis, shock, and injuries to important organs. Of the late
complications, the most common are intestinal stenosis in anastomosis, adhesions and sphincter
disorders. If subtotal or total colectomy is required, rapid peristalsis, frequent diarrhea and weight loss
are typical. As almost always with irradiation of lesser pelvis, radiotherapy is characterized by acute
tenesmus and diarrhea, which disappear after the end of therapy. Late complications may include
chronic enteritis / colitis accompanied by diarrhea or passage disorders due to post-radiation stenosis of
the intestinal loops. Chemotherapy is associated with haematological toxicity, nausea, vomiting and
diarrhea, which are typical of preparations containing 5-FU, neurotoxicity with oxaliplatin and diarrhea
with irinotecan.

19.9 FOLLOW-UP
Regular follow-ups are necessary. Regular follow-up is necessary. Usually every 3 months during the first
two years after treatment, every 4 months during the 3rd year, every 6 months 4-5 years after treatment
and then once a year. In addition to basic examinations, such as clinical examination, blood count,
biochemistry, tumor markers and endoscopic controls are required (control colonoscopy a year after
surgery, in case of incomplete colonoscopy prior to surgery due to obstruction or acute surgery in the
ileum, another colonoscopy is indicated as soon as possible). Imaging examinations are indicated
according to the severity of the disease.

19.10 PROGNOSIS
Prognosis is given mainly according to the extent of the tumor – by determining the TNM classification –
i.e. depth of the invasion through the intestinal wall (T), involvement of the lymph nodes (N) and
presence or absence of metastases (M). Five-year survival rates are reported to be about 90% for stage I,
about 66% for stage II, and only about 10% for stage IV (generalization of the disease).

142

20 ANAL CARCINOMA
Martina Kubecová, Markéta Šejdová

20.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
Anal carcinoma belongs to uncommon malignant tumors, in Czech republic it makes up less than 1-2% of
GIT tumors. It is more often diagnosed in women than in men. Incidence in the Czech Republic is
gradually increasing, but mortality fortunately stagnates.

20.2 ETIOLOGY
Infection with sexually transmitted human papillomaviruses, oncogenic HPV16 and 18 is a key risk factor
for tumor etiology. The prevalence of population is significant and infection is proven in up to 80 percent
of patients with anal cancer. The issue of anal cancer is topical and serious, especially since it has been
shown to be associated with sexually transmitted infection. Latencies in the range of decades from an
infection of oncogenic viruses to the outbreak of cancer can be assumed. In the future, a reduction in
incidence can be expected due to the higher rates of HPV vaccination. Other risk factors include smoking
and immunosuppression of the patient for any cause.

20.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
Symptoms such as bleeding, pain, rectal pressure and anal discomfort are present. The diagnosis is
delayed because these symptoms are mostly attributed to benign affections (whether by the patient or
by the doctor). Shame also plays a role in delayed diagnosis.

20.4 DIAGNOSTICS
The examination includes a thorough examination of the rectum, an endoscopic examination describing
the size of the lesion, an assessment of whether the tumor will grow into adjacent organs and biopsy
collection. In women, gynecological examination as well. An additional examination is an anorectic
endosonography to assess the depth of invasion and determine is peri-rectal nodes are affected.
Ultrasound is used to assess the inguinal lymph nodes; if a tumor is suspected, a biopsy is recommended.
Another examination is pelvic CT to determine the extent of the finding and determine the
involvement of pelvic and inguinal nodes.
To assess and exclude eventual metastatic involvement, the patient should be subjected to CT or
ultrasound of the liver and X-ray of the lungs.

20.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
It is necessary to distinguish a number of benign affections such as hemorrhoids, absceses, fistulae and
peri-rectal affections, as well as malignant tumors, such as rectal adenocarcinoma with ingrowth into
anal sphincter. The final differentiation will be done by histological examination.

143

20.6 PATHOLOGY
Most anal tumors are squamous cell carcinoma, rarely cloacogenic carcinoma, basaloid carcinoma, and
transitional zone carcinoma. Small cell carcinoma, melanoma and adenocarcinoma may be an unusual
finding in the anus.

20.7 THERAPY
Surgical treatment
Previously considered standard, it is now reserved for small superficial lesions. Abdominoperineal
resection with permanent stoma is reserved for local recurrence and tumors poorly responsive to
conservative treatment, i.e. persistence of the tumor with prior radiochemotherapy.
Radiotherapy
It is in most cases a method of choice. External radiotherapy to the lesser pelvis and inguinal lymph
nodes is usually combined with concomitant chemotherapy. Cytostatics include cisplatin, fluorouracil
and mitomycin. Radiotherapy uses a combination of external and interstitial techniques as a boost on
the residual tumor area. Anal carcinomas respond well to this treatment and complete remission is
expected in 80-90% of patients. Anal carcinomas regress gradually, complete remission may occur 3
months or more after the end of treatment.

20.8 POST-TREATMENT COMPLICATIONS
Acute – during and after radiotherapy, the patient feels the urge to defecate and has a diarrhea. Beside
that, acute skin reactions sometimes occur in the form of quite extensive desquamation and
epitheliolysis with secretion in the irradiated area, especially in obese patients. However, this reaction
subsides quickly.
Late complications may include sphincter insufficiency, radiation proctitis and enteritis and possibly
stenosis or ulceration of small intestine loops. However, late-onset side effects are very rare with newly
used radiation techniques and adherence to all treatment recommendations. However, the worst
complication is tumor recurrence, so it is always necessary to use tumoricidal doses of radiation in order
to minimize the number of recurrences.

20.9 FOLLOW-UP
Follow-up serves for early detection of recurrence or generalization of the tumor. It is performed at short
intervals (3 months) for 2 years after treatment, when the disease is most likely to relapse. Later, the
inspection intervals may be longer.
It includes careful per rectum examination (per vaginam in women), palpation of the inguinal area,
anoscopy and biopsy of suspected relapse. Restaging of the disease includes abdominal and pelvic CT
scan and lung x-ray.

144

20.10 PROGNOSIS
Prognosis always depends on the lymph node involvement and the stage of the disease – in T1 and T2
tumors, the 5-year survival is more than 80%. In diseases with a nodal positivity, the 5-year survival is
about 40%.

145

21 KIDNEY CARCINOMA
Eva Kindlová

21.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
Malignant tumors of renal parenchyma account for 1–2% of all malignant tumors in the adult population,
the most common being carcinoma. Incidence in the Czech Republic is steadily rising and is reported to
be the highest in the world. Tumors occur in all age groups, but the highest incidence is in the 5th - 7th
decade. It affects men about twice as often as women.

21.2 ETIOLOGY
Risk factors for the development of kidney cancer are obesity, smoking and antihypertensive therapy.
Hereditary-linked kidney cancer is also known. The best known is the autosomal dominant disease – von
Hippel-Lindau with a familial occurrence of kidney cancer. Cause of this disease is the loss of VHL gene on
the short arm of the 3rd chromosome.

21.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
In about half of the cases, renal cancer is completely asymptomatic and is found accidentally during, for
example, ultrasonographic examination of the abdomen. The clinical symptoms can vary and can be
divided into local, locoregional and generalized.
Local – microscopic or macroscopic hematuria is the most common symptom. Classical, often described
triplet of symptoms (macroscopic hematuria, pain and palpable tumor) occurs in less than 10% of
patients.
Locoregional – these symptoms usually occur in locally advanced tumors:
▪ dilated collateral veins, edema of the lower extremities,
▪ pulmonary embolism in the case of obstruction of inferior vena cava,
▪ acute varicocele.
General – may be present in generalized disease, but are also part of paraneoplastic syndromes in
localized disease:
▪ fatigue, anorexia, fever, weight loss to cachexia,
▪ anemia but also erythrocytosis, hypertension, liver dysfunction (Stauffer syndrome),
▪ hypercalcaemia, amyloidosis,
▪ in metastatic spread, symptomatology depends on the affected site
o

skeleton - pain, pathological fractures,

o

lungs - shortness of breath, cough,

o

CNS - headache, vertigo, nausea, confusion…

146

21.4 DIAGNOSTICS
Diagnosis is set based of the following examinations:
a) physical exam
b) urine examination – chemical + sediment
c) complete blood count, sedimentation, blood biochemical examination
d) ultrasound – basic imaging method – finding solid expansion in kidney parenchyma, its extent,
differentiation from cyst, sometimes finding on renal and inferior vena cava, finding in liver
parenchyma
e) CT with contrast medium administration – clarifies previous findings and evaluates the condition
of regional lymph nodes and adrenal glands and finding on the second kidney
f) MRI does not provide any other significant information compared to CT, however it can be used in
case of allergy to contrast agent or for detailed imaging of thrombus in inferior vena cava
g) angio-CT only in indicated cases when considering the possibility of partial renal resection or
nephrectomy in anatomical abnormalities – e.g. ren arcuatus
h) X-ray of the lungs or lung CT – to exclude metastatic involvement; or lung scintigraphy – to exclude
pulmonary embolism. This should be done for all more advanced findings.
i) Brain CT, skeletal scintigraphy – in case of clinical suspicion of generalization to these organs
j) other specialized examinations according to clinical findings

21.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
In the case of an ambiguous finding for kidney cancer, it is possible to consider another tumor disease
based on other structures of the abdominal cavity, e.g. a benign tumor or a cyst, inflammatory processes
or injuries - all of these can usually be ascertained by previous examinations. The definitive diagnosis will
be clearly determined by histological examination.

21.6 PATHOLOGY
The most common variant of kidney cancer is clear cell renal cell carcinoma, which is based on epithelial
cells of the proximal tubule - it accounts for about 75% of all kidney tumors. Other variants include
papillary renal carcinoma (10-15%), chromophobic renal carcinoma (5%) and other, much rarer tumors.

21.7 THERAPY
The basic and only curative treatment of kidney cancer is surgery. In case of radical intervention in
localized disease, no further treatment is indicated, only follow-up. Kidney cancer can cause
metastases – often to the lungs, CNS, skeleton, liver, skin, subcutis, lymph nodes and adrenal glands or
can cause recurrence in previous tumor site. If possible, surgical removal of metastases and continued
systemic therapy – biological therapy or immunotherapy – is indicated. Radiotherapy may have a very
good palliative effect in metastases located mainly in the CNS, skeleton or recurrence in site.
Symptomatic treatment is also important and can significantly improve the general condition of the
patient.

147

21.7.1 Local treatment
Radical surgical treatment – in localized disease
▪ Radical nephrectomy
▪ Local recurrence

Palliative surgical treatment – in metastatic renal cell carcinoma, in case of local recurrence
▪ palliative nephrectomy is indicated if there are conservatively unsolvable local symptoms such as
non-controllable bleeding,
▪ cytoreductive nephrectomy is indicated individually depending on the general condition of the
patient and the extent of the disease and carried out before systemic treatment is initiated,
▪ in the case of a limited number of operable metastases, their surgical removal is indicated. Surgical
removal of metastases is recommended when affecting at most two organ sites.

21.7.2 Systemic treatment of metastatic kidney cancer
Kidney cancer is chemoresistant, except for the sarcomatoid variant, where chemotherapy can be used
to treat the sarcomas. Even here, however, the response to treatment is very low.
Systemic renal tumor therapy is based on biological (targeted) therapy using tyrosine kinase inhibitors
TKI:
▪ Sunitinib – inhibitor of platelet-derived growth factor receptors, vascular endothelial GF receptors,
stem cell factor receptor - KIT,
▪ Pazopanib – a potent multi-site TKI – at vascular endothelial growth factor receptors – VEGFR, a
platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) inhibitor,
▪ Sorafenib – inhibits the activity of target receptors present in tumor cells and in the vascular
system of the tumor,
▪ Cabozantinib – a selective inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR).
monoclonal antibody:
▪ Bevacizumab - binds to a protein called vascular endothelial growth factor – VEGF – a key factor in
abiogenesis, thereby inhibiting VEGF binding to its receptors on the surface of endothelial cells –
neutralizing receptor activity, leading to regression of tumor vascular network, normalizing of
persistent vascular network and prevention of new tumor formation.
mTOR inhibitors:
▪ Temsirolimus - binds to intracellular protein (FKPB-12) and the protein / temsirolimus complex
binds to mTOR, inhibiting it and preventing its activation, which controls cell division,
▪ Everolimus - selective inhibitor of mTOR.
Another very important systemic treatment suitable for kidney tumors is immunotherapy:
▪ Interleukin-2 - mimics the activity of natural human interferon alpha - antiviral effects. Detailed
mechanism of antitumor activity is not yet known, however known is a significant decrease in
DNA, RNA and protein synthesis with antiproliferative effects of various types of human tumors,

148

▪ Nivolumab - a human monoclonal antibody that binds to the PD-1 receptor (programmed death
receptor) and blocks its interaction with PD-L1 and PD-L2. The PD-1 receptor is a negative
regulator of T-cell activity and participates in the control of the T-cell immune response. Binding of
the PD-1 receptor to PD-L1 and PD-L2 ligands that are expressed on antigen-presenting cells or
may be on tumor or other cells in the tumor microenvironment results in inhibition of T-cell
proliferation and blockade of cytokine secretion. Nivolumab enhances the T-cell response,
including the anti-tumor response, by blocking PD-1 receptor binding to PD-L1 and PD-L2 ligands.
Different scoring systems are used for renal cancer and their result determines categorization of the
patient into his appropriate prognostic group.
The MSKCC scoring system of 2002 (Motzer et al. 2002) – Table 1 is used in the first line of targeted
multikinase inhibitor therapy and bevacizumab, and modified MSKCC criteria (Hudes et al. 2007) for
treatment with temsirolimus – Table 2.
Tab. 1 MSKCC scoring system from 2002: applies to TKI and bevacizumab treatment

LDH > 1.5 times the upper limit of the standard
hemoglobin < lower limit of the standard
corrected serum calcium > 2.5 mmol / l
Karnofsky index ≤ 70 %
interval <1 year from diagnosis to start of systemic treatment
Good prognosis: no factor
Medium prognosis: 1 or 2 factors
Poor prognosis: 3 or more factors
Tab. 2 Scoring system for temsirolimus (Hudes et al. 2007)

LDH > 1.5 times the upper limit of the standard
hemoglobin < lower limit of the standard
corrected serum calcium > 2.5 mmol / l
Karnofsky index ≤ 70 %
2 and more affected organs
interval <1 year from diagnosis to start of systemic treatment
Poor prognosis: presence of 3 or more factors
In patients with a good or moderate prognosis, we have the possibility to start treatment with TKI
inhibitors - sunitinib or pazopanib or a VEGF inhibitor (in combination with interferon alpha). In patients
with poor prognosis, we need to use mTOR or TKI inhibitors. Currently, other drugs can also be used in
the case of progression of the disease - such as everolimus, cabozantinib, axitinib, sorafenib, and recently
also nivolumab.

21.8 POST-THERAPEUTIC COMPLICATION
As with other tumors, the treatment complications depend on the treatment modality used and its
extent. In almost every case of kidney cancer, the patient undergoes nephrectomy and the solitary
kidney can be further damaged by systemic therapy - immunotherapy and biological therapy, which

149

creates a risk of renal insufficiency. This treatment can also cause leukopenia, thrombopenia or anemia,
changes in liver and mineral tests, allergic reactions, hypertension, proteinuria and pneumonia.
Radiotherapy used in the treatment of kidney cancer is always used with palliative intent and
therefore complications due to this treatment should not occur at all.

21.9 FOLLOW-UP
The follow-up of patients after treatment is permanent. Initially twice a year and later once a year, a
follow-up examination, or in the event of complications at any time. In the more advanced stages,
controls are more frequent and in generalized diseases are more frequent as required by the patient's
condition.
Controls include medical history, physical examination, sampling - erythrocyte sedimentation, complete
blood count, biochemistry, urine examination and, at fixed intervals, X-ray of the lungs and abdominal
CT, usually 1-2 times a year.
Other examinations such as skeleton scintigraphy and brain CT are indicated according to the patient's
condition and complaints.

21.10 PROGNOSIS
Clinical stage and disease grading are critical to patient prognosis. Other factors affecting survival are –
general patient status, delayed treatment since the diagnosis, number of metastases and their location,
weight loss and previous cytotoxic treatment. In stage I - II, when tumors are limited to the kidney, 5year survival is about 90 %. Stage III, when tumors do not exceed Gerota's fascia or spread into the vena
cava, 5-year survival is between 30-75 %. Stage IV patients, when tumors spread beyond Gerota's fascia,
metastases are in more than one lymph node or are distant, 5-year survival rate is only 10 %.

150

22 MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE TESTES
Eva Kindlová

22.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
Testicular germ cell tumors (GCTs) are characterized by a significantly different racial, geographical and
age distribution. About 90% of GCTs are found in the white race, 6.6% in blacks and the rest in other
races. The highest incidence is in Denmark, the lowest in the Far East; the incidence is increasing in
economically developed countries. Approximately half of the cases are diagnosed within a narrow age
range of 25–30 years. Occurrence in children and in the older age groups is significantly less represented.
Although rare, for the 25–30 age group, GCTs are the most common cancer and account for
approximately 1% of all malignant tumors in men.

22.2 ETIOLOGY
Cryptorchidism is an important risk factor for the subsequent development of a testicular tumor. Early
orchidopexy is an effective preventive procedure. Pre- and perinatal risks factors are fetal exposure to
diethylstilbestrol and premature labor. There are also genetic risk factors in connection with some
deviations of somatosexual development, such as: Klinefelter syndrome, some forms of gonadal
dysgenesis, etc. The influence of dietary factors - high energy food intake, high amount of saturated fats
and cholesterols in diet is also reported.

22.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
Although testes are easily accessible for a clinical examination, more than 1/3 of patients come in
advanced or disseminated disease stage. The simplest method of cancer detection is a self-investigation,
but sufficient training of population is required because nescience of anatomy and patient's shame often
cause the diagnosis to be delayed for several months.
Local symptoms:
▪ painful testicular enlargement or painful testicular resistance,
▪ pain during rapid growth,
▪ feeling of heaviness and discomfort in the scrotum.
Locoregional symptoms (usually accompany locally advanced tumor)
▪ pain in the lower abdomen or groin.
General symptoms (in generalized disease, but may also be part of paraneoplastic syndromes in a
localized tumor):
▪ gynecomastia,
▪ fatigue, anorexia, fever, cachexia,
▪ anemia, hypertension, liver dysfunction, hypercalcaemia, amyloidosis
▪ algic syndrome in skeletal metastases.

151

22.4 DIAGNOSTICS
It is based on the following examinations:
a) ultrasound examination of the scrotum, groin, mammary gland and cervical and supraclavicular
nodes
b) if a testicular tumor is suspected, surgical revision and orchiectomy from the inguinal approach
are indicated immediately,
c) Lab testing for values of tumor markers - AFP, beta-HCG, LH, biochemistry and CBC,
d) CT - chest, abdomen, pelvis to exclude metastases in the lungs, lymph nodes of the mediastinum,
retroperitoneum, involvement of parenchymatous organs, alternative can be PET / CT
e) Bipedal lymphography for detecting involvement of the lymph nodes of retroperitoneum is a
rarely used and obsolete method.
f) Brain CT and skeletal scintigraphy are only indicated when there is a clinical suspicion for
metastases at these sites.

22.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
We need to consider inflammation, benign tumors, abscesses, etc.

22.6 PATHOLOGY
Germinal tumors represent 92-96% of testicular cancers. According to the histological type, we classify
GCTs into seminomas that originate from partially differentiated seminal canal cells and nonseminomas.
Depending on their origin, we further classify nonseminomas into embryonic carcinomas - derived from
a pluripotent germ cell that is directly transformed into a tumor cell. When the cell is partially
differentiated into trophoblastic elements, the tumor is called choriocarcinoma or yolk sac tumor.
Pluripotent germ cell transformation into somatic cells of ectoderm, mesoderm and entoderm is called
teratocarcinoma. Pure variants containing only one type of tumor tissue are rare. Mixed forms
containing different percentages of seminomas and different types of non-seminomas are more
common.
In case of mixed non-seminoma, although there is only a minimal proportion of non-seminoma
component (eg. 5% of embryonic tumor), treatment and follow-up is always based on non-seminoma
component.
CGCs are most commonly found in testes (more than 90%). Extragonadal occurrence is most common
in retroperitoneum, mediastinum and pineal gland. In 1-2% CGCs may have bilateral incidence.
Carcinoma in situ is a relatively common finding in CGCs.
Prognostic scheme
Seminomas
Good prognosis - tumor in primary localization, except the lungs, without visceral metastases.
Intermediate prognosis - any primary localization with non-pulmonary visceral metastases.
No poor prognosis.

152

Nonseminomas
Good prognosis - primary tumor in testis / retroperitoneum (RP) - and without visceral metastases (not
including lungs) and the following TM values: AFP <1,000 μg / ml, HCG <5,000 IU / l, LDH <1.5 x N.
Intermediate prognosis - primary tumor in testis / retroperitoneum (RP) - and without visceral meta (not
including lungs) and the following TM values: AFP> 1,000 and <10,000 μg / ml, HCG> 5,000 IU / l, LDH
<10 x N.
Poor prognosis - primary tumor in mediastinum or visceral metastases other than pulmonary or
following TM values: AFP> 10,000 μg / ml, HCG> 50,000 IU / l, LDH> 10 x N.

22.7 THERAPY
Therapeutic modalities
▪
▪
▪
▪

surgery
systemic treatment - chemotherapy
radiotherapy
palliative, symptomatic treatment

Treatment strategies differ for seminomas and non-seminomas.
Surgery
- the basic treatment procedure is always radical inguinal orchiectomy (IO). In exceptional cases with T1
tumor, procedure saving testes are possible. The procedure should be performed within 24-48 hours
after diagnosis.

Radiotherapy
- seminomas and nonseminomas are radiosensitive tumors, therefore the radiation doses used are
relatively low - in seminomas 20–30 Gy, in case of recurrence or persistence, then up to 36 Gy; 40 Gy (5
fractions per week, mostly 1.8 Gy per fraction). The extent of irradiation depends on the extent of the
disease - paraaortic LN, ipsilateral and paraaortic LN, pelvic and paraaortic LN, mediastinum, other
metastatic area (CNS, lungs…).

Systemic treatment
- cryopreservation of semen is always recommended prior to systemic treatment, especially in younger
patients. The treatment is always indicated in non-seminomas, the only exception is stage IA and IB
when strict monitoring only, is possible.
Cytostatics used: on the basis of platinum (P), etoposide (E), bleomycin (B) - the "gold standard" remains
the combination of BEP, or EP.
Other cytostatics used - paclitaxel, carboplatin, gemcitabine, oxaliplatin, vinblastine - are used in relapse
of the disease.

153

Treatment of seminomas
Stage IA (pT1, N0, M0, S0), IB - (pT2-pT4, N0, M0, S0)
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪

In 15–20% subclinical dissemination is present , usually in retroperitoneum.
Risk factors include invasion of the rete testis and / or a tumor larger than 4 cm.
IO and subsequent strict monitoring - recommended for the pT1-3 stages without risk factors.
IO and adjuvant CHT (preferred method) - 1-2 cycles of carboplatin.
IO and adjuvant radiotherapy of paraaortic lymph nodes (20 Gy).

Stadium IS
Suspicion for regional node metastases or remote dissemination, not detectable by imaging methods.
▪ IO and monitoring of tumor markers and repeat CTscan every 2-3 months.
▪ IO a CHT – 3 cykly BEP,
▪ IO and radiotherapy of paraaortic lymph nodes (30 Gy).
Stadium IIA – any pT/pTX, pN1, M0, S0
▪ IO and radiotherapy of paraaortal + ipsilateral iliac nodes (30 Gy),
▪ IO and curative CHT – 3x BEP nebo 4x EP.
Stadium IIB – any pT/pTX, N2, M0, S0
▪ IO and radiotherapy of paraaortal + ipsilateral iliac nodes (36 Gy),
▪ IO and curative CHT – 3x BEP nebo 4x EP.
Stadium IIC – any pT/pTX, N3, M0, S1 a III – pT/pTX, any N, M1a,1b, any S
▪ Good risk – IO a CHT – 3x BEP or 4x EP,
▪ Intermediate risk – IO a CHT 4x BEP or 4x VIP (in contraindications of bleomycin).
Treatment of nonseminomas
Stadium IA (pT1, N0, M0,S0), IB (pT2-pT4, N0,M0, S0)
▪ IO and subsequent strict monitoring - recommended for pT 1 tumors, without RF
▪ IO a adjuvant CHT (preferred way) - 1-2 x BEP, in Europe, preferred over RPLND (excluding
teratomas),
▪ IO and primary nerve-sparring RPLND, in pN0- monitoring, pN+ - CHT - 2x BEP or 2x EP, monitoring
only when a mature teratoma is detected.
Stadium IS
▪ IO – 3x BEP or 4x EP, after CHT in neg. TM monitoring.
Stadium IIA – any pT/pTX, pN1, M0, S0 a IIB – any pT/pTX, N2, M0, S0
▪ negative TM – CHT or RPLND,
154

▪ Curative CHT – 3x BEP or 4x EP, after CHT and neg. TM and with no residue - monitoring, when
residue at CT present - RPLND,
▪ Primary nerve sparing RPLND: pN0 monitoring, pN1a2 – CHT – 2x EP or 2x BEP, monitoring only in
case of teratoma, pN3 – CHT – 4x EP or 3x BEP,
▪ Positive TM – primary CHT 3x BEP or 4x EP.
Stadium IIC a III
▪ IIC, IIIA – good risk – 3x BEP or 4x EP,
▪ IIIB – intermediate risk – 4x BEP or 4x VIP,
▪ IIIC – poor risk – 4x BEP or 4x VIP.

22.8 POST-TREATMENT COMPLICATIONS
Posttreatment complications depend on the type of the treatment.
After CHT, toxic lung injury (bleomycin), impaired renal function or ototoxicity (platinum) and
neurotoxicity are common.
Complications after RT are not frequent due to the low dose administered. The problem is that treated
are mostly young patients and especially in case of combined treatment,occurence of secondary tumors
is possible, in worse case scenario also sterility (hence cryopreservation is performed before the
treatment). Other complications may be related to the surgical procedure performed (retrograde
ejaculation, etc.).

22.9 FOLLOW-UP
It should be permanent and includes clinical examination, laboratory testing for tumor markers, CT scan,
ultrasound, PET (necessary especially in case of persistence of the tumor before planned surgery for
detection of viable neoplasia).

22.10 PROGNOSIS
A large portion of testicular tumors can be cured permanently. The extent of the disease according to the
TNM classification determines the prognosis - it is more favorable in T1-T2 tumors than in T3-4 stages.
The presence of peritumoral vascular invasion worsens prognosis as well as histological findings of
embryonic carcinoma. In metastatic tumors, the high level of tumor markers and the presence of extrapulmonary visceral metastases are an unfavorable prognostic factor.

155

23 PROSTATE CANCER
Eva Kindlová, Renata Soumarová

23.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
Prostate cancer (PCCAP) is the second most common malignant disease in men. In men over 50, it
accounts for approximately 16% of all cancers. Prostate tumors have a significantly differrent racial,
geographical and age distribution. PC has the highest incidence in the black population in the US, in the
white race the incidence is a half and the lowest incidence can be found in population in the Far East. In
2005, PC was the most frequently diagnosed cancer. This is explained by an aging of population and
improved diagnostics methods. On the other hand, mortality in the PC is rising only slightly and in 2005 it
even lowered.

23.2 ETIOLOGY
Genetic predispositions are a significant risk factor. Family incidence increases the risk 3x when one
family member affected, 5x and 11x in two or more affected family members. Hereditary dependence is
autosomally dominant and in these cases PC is diagnosed in a younger age groups. Nutrition and dietary
habits also play an important role, with an effect of up to 30-40% being reported. Etiopathogenesis is
unknown.
Prostate adenocarcinoma is a hormone-dependent, dependent tumor, but its parts differ in sensitivity
to androgens. The basic hormonal stimulus for prostate cell replication is testosterone and even more
effective is dihydrotestosterone. DHT is synthesized from testosterone by the enzyme alpha-5-reductase.
A large proportion of prostate tumors, which are classified as a localized disease are undervalued and the
disease is in reality generalized - most often metastases in the skeleton or lymph nodes are present, less
often then mets in soft tissues.

23.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
In early stages of the tumor, the patient is asymptomatic, sometimes the first presentation are distant
metastases. Local or locoregional symptoms are a sign of an advanced disease.
Locoregional symptoms:
▪ macroscopic or microscopic hematuria,
▪ miction problems (both collection and emptying),
▪ hematospermia,
▪ erectile dysfunction,
▪ priapism.
General symptoms may be a symptom of generalized disease, but also part of paraneoplastic syndromes
in localized disease:
▪ algic syndrome in skeletal metastases,
▪ pathological fractures,
▪ myelosuppression anemia in skeletal metastases,
156

▪ fatigue, anorexia, febrile conditions, cachexia,
▪ ileous conditions,
▪ disseminated intravascular coagulation, thrombosis.

23.4 DIAGNOSTICS
All examinations and test performed should always be appropriate to the patient's quality of life, survival
and associated treatment options. There is no point in burdening the patient with an intensive
examination process when it is clear that treatment is no longer possible.
However, it is always necessary to perform general physical examination, including per rectum
examination (the tumor may be palpable from 0.2 ml), in larger tumors we assess the extent of the
disease based on the changes in a gland consistency, borders, consistency, surface smoothness and if the
gland is mobile.

Measuring of PSA values (prostate specific antigen) and other examinations - free PSA values, PSA
density (ratio of prostate weight to PSA values). Recently, kinetics of serum PSA levels (PSA velocity and
doubling time) have also been ascribed great importance. However, PSA is not an unequivocal indicator
of prostate cancer - there is no low PSA threshold to rule out the presence of cancer.
Transabdominal ultrasound - prostate size, bladder filling, liver, urinary and renal ducts assessment,
lymph node metastases in liver or lymph nodes.
Transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) - evaluates the structure of the gland, but without biopsy it is not possible
to clearly distinguish carcinoma from benign hyperplasia; facilitates targeted prostate biopsy, helps to
determine clinical T stage - extraprostatic spread, infiltration of seminal vesicles.
Prostate biopsy - performed transrectally under sonographic control.
Re-biopsy is indicated within range of 3–6 months if the first biopsy is negative and there is an increase
in PSA value; can be done specifically after MR and ultrasound examination.
Lesser pelvic CT scan does not specify diagnosis, but as well as MRI - may be of importance for the
assessment of primary tumor, infiltration of surrounding structures, lymph node finding (definite
assessment of LN involvement can only be determined by a pelvic lymphadenectomy).
Scintigraphy of the skeleton, possibly in combination with X-ray for suspected foci, serves to detect
skeletal metastases.
Choline PET CT – in case of PSA elevation and in cases of undetectable findings by examinations such as
MRI, CT scan or scintigraphy of the skeleton, in suspicion for generalization.

23.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
Due to their symptoms, benign hyperplasia and prostate cancer can often be confused. Also, prostate
inflammation can resemble prostate cancer.

157

23.6 PATHOLOGY
Histopathologically, more than 95% of prostate cancer found are adenocarcinomas, which originates
from luminal cells of prostatic acinar cells (acinous, cribriform, solid pattern). It is usually hormonedependent. On the other hand neuroendocrine cell tumors are primarily hormone resistant. Other
variants - squamous cell, intraductal, endometrial, small cell, mesenchymal tumor and lymphomas are
rare and usually hormone refractory.
In TNM classification, 4 Mostoffi anaplasia degrees are distinguished, but in practice the Gleason
system, which divides tumors based on their anaplasia grade or differentiation into 5 categories is used.
More accurate and commonly used is the Gleason score, which is the sum of the two most represented
degrees of differentiation. The score can then be from 2 to 10, when GS greater than 7 is considered
risky and is associated with poor prognosis and governs the treatment. This usually means use of more
treatment modalities, including hormonal treatment.

23.7 THERAPY
Multiple treatment modalities and combinations are used in the treatment of prostate cancer. The
choice depends on the progress of the disease, age of the patient, his co-morbidities and last but not
least on the patient's wishes. Monitoring or active monitoring, local treatment - surgical treatment,
radiotherapy and systemic treatment - hormonal treatment and chemotherapy can all be used.
Monitoring
▪ watchful waiting – the patient's general condition and prognosis of the disease are important
factors in deciding about proper protocol choice. Unlike "active surveillance", watchful waiting
protocol does not include recommendations for re-biopsies, but only PSA monitoring and a clinical
examination every 4-6 months. This strategy is suitable for patients with significant co-morbidities
limiting their overall survival rate.
▪ active surveillance - a patient with cT1-2a tumor with low PSA (≤ 10 μg / l), low GS (GS = 6) and
smaller tumor size (≤ 2 positive samples) is suitable for active follow-up and delayed local
treatment. Treatment should be initiated at first signs of disease activity (eg. GS progression in
rebiopsy after 4–6 months at PSA doubling time <3 years, at signs of local progression) or as
desired by the patient.
Surgical treatment
▪ radical prostatectomy (RAPE) - in patients with localized disease, life expectancy of at least 10
years, PSA ˂ 20,
▪ pelvic lymphadenectomy - recommended in PSA level ˃10, and GS ≥7,
▪ widespread pelvic lymphadenectomy (obligatory in moderate risk carcinoma with a risk of lymph
node involvement > 5% by nomogram,
▪ surgical approaches - open , laparoscopic, robotic RAPE are comparable in terms of cancer safety,
▪ in indicated cases, nerve sparing surgical procedures.

158

Radiotherapy
▪ Curative radiotherapy with a dose of 76–80 Gy, depending on the size of the irradiated volume. In
localized disease - when limited only to the prostate, low PSA and GS <7, only the prostate and
seminal vesicle bases can be irradiated (in doses of 20 x 3 Gy or 27 x 2.5 Gy, with 27 x 2.35 Gy hypofractionation or normo-fractionation 40 x 2 Gy). For radical radiotherapy it is always
necessary to use the latest radiotherapy techniques including IGRT.
▪ Brachytherapy - in the form of permanent or temporary implantation, alone or in combination
with external RT. The table shows the possible inclusion of BRT into the treatment algorithm in
individual risk groups.

PSA
T stadium
Gleason score
Optimal
management

Low risk
0-10 ng/ml
T+-2a
6 and less
▪ active
surveillance
▪ RAPE
▪ External RT
▪ LDR BRT

Medium risk
10-20 ng/ml
T2b
7
▪ RAPE
▪ External RT +/- HT
▪ External RT + HDR
BRT +/- HT

High risk
20 ng/ml and more
T2c-T4
8 and more
▪ External RT + HT
▪ RAPE +/- adjuvan or salvage
RT +/- HT
▪ External RT + HDR BRT + HT

▪ External radiotherapy - used in locally advanced prostate cancer, when there is an indication for
irradiation of pelvic lymph nodes and prostate and seminal vesicles (doses of RT to the area of LN
of the lesser pelvis - 25-27 x 1.8 - 2 Gy with concurrent application of higher doses to the prostate)
and seminal vesicles 27 x 2.5 Gy and 27 x 2.35 Gy, respectively. RT can be combined with hormone
therapy - neoadjuvant, concomitant and adjuvant in patients at moderate and higher risk.

Hormonal treatment
- (androgen deprivation therapy ADT) the aim is to achieve testosterone levels as in castration. It can be
used with RT, alone as an adjuvant therapy or in palliative therapy.
Hormonal treatments include:
▪ agonists - LH-RH analogues of natural gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) - goserelin
(Zoladex), triptorelin (Dipherelin),
▪ gonadoliberin antagonists (Firmagon),
▪ antiandrogens - bicalutamide,
▪ orchiectomy.
Chemotherapy
▪ docetaxel – a cytostatic promoting the incorporation of tubulin into stable microtubules and
preventing microtubule depolymerization which is resulting in a significant decrease in free tubulin
and thus disrupting microtubular network within cells, which is essential for vital mitotic and
interphase cell functions.

159

▪ cabazitaxel – it induces disruption of microtubule network in cells - leads to stabilization of
microtubules and consequently to inhibition of mitotic and interphase cell functions.
ARTA (androgen receptor target antigen):
▪ abiraterone acetate - (Zytiga) – selectively inhibits the enzyme 17α-hydroxylase, this enzyme is
required for androgen biosynthesis in testicular, adrenal and prostate tumor tissue,
▪ enzalutamide - (Xtandi) – is a potent inhibitor of androgen receptor signaling that blocks several
steps of the androgen signaling pathway.

Treatment of low-risk (cT1-2a and GS 6 and PSA <10) and moderate risk (cT2b and / or GS 7 and / or
PSA 10-20) prostate cancer
Treatment is also chosen according to the preference of the informed patient.
RT - brachytherapy and external radiotherapy, monitoring, active monitoring and surgery (RAPE) are
suitable.
Treatment of high-risk prostate cancer (cT2c-3 a/nebo GS 8-10 a/nebo PSA > 20)
RT with neoadjuvant, concomitant or adjuvant hormonal suppression, individually combined external RT
with interstitial brachytherapy.
RAPE with extended pelvic lymphadenectomy - the patient must be informed of the high probability of
subsequent multimodal treatment depending on definitive histology.
Rarely HT alone - in patients unsuitable for curative treatment
Adjuvant radiotherapy after RAPE – is recommended for patients with risk factors - high GS - more than
7, positive surgical margins, positive seminal vesicles, positive lymph node (s) - hormonal therapy or
radiotherapy both possible, the most common is a combination of both.
Treatment of generalized disease
Hormone-sensitive - indicated hormone treatment, early or delayed, continuous or intermittent.
Combination therapy - HT and CHT shows very favorable results.
After some time, the disease becomes castration resistant, which is defined by castration testosterone
values (˂ 50 ng / ml) and one of the following criteria: (biochemical progression: 3 consecutive PSA value
increases measured at least one week apart, or radiological progression: occurrence of two or more new
bone lesions, or soft tissue progression. All patients have LH RH levels lowered to castration levels by
hormone analogues or surgical castration.
Chemotherapy is also used in the treatment - docetaxel, in the second line cabazitaxel. It is also
possible to use an androgen biosynthesis inhibitor - abiraterone acetate (Zytiga) or an inhibitor of
androgen receptor signaling - enzalutamide (Xtandi).
In cases of skeletal metastases, bisphosphonates can be administered, and in patients with
symptomatic bone metastases without known visceral metastases, radium 223 can be used.
160

In indicated cases it is suitable to use external palliative radiotherapy - in bone metastases or in the
CNS involvement.
Very important is symptomatic treatment - analgesic therapy, nutrition, psychological treatment.

23.8 POST-TREATMENT COMPLICATIONS
Post surgery complications - thanks to the advanced surgical techniques the number of stress
incontinence decreased to about 5–10%, throat stenosis became very rare. Sometimes, however,
depending on anatomical conditions, damage to the peroneal nerve, the lumbosacral plexus or the
femoral nerve is described.
▪ Complications after radiotherapy are early - during or shortly after irradiation - dysuric complaints,
nocturia, diarrhea, exceptionally hematuria. These complications usually resolve very soon.
▪ The second group of complications, which mostly progress slowly, are so-called late complications
related to the GIT and the urinary tract. The most common is radiation proctitis, manifested by
tenesmuses, bleeding, flatulence and radiation cystitis - with hematuria and dysuria. These
complications most often arise after a few years of treatment.
▪ The third group of complications is called very late complications - occurring even decades after
treatment , mainly the development of secondary carcinomas.
Hormonal treatment, in addition to the changes in red blood count and liver function tests also causes
complications related to its therapeutic effect - ie blocking testosterone and can manifest as increased
fatigue, deterioration of sexual functions and libido or gynecomastia.
After chemotherapy treatment paresthesia and changes in blood count may persist for a long time.

23.9 FOLLOW-UP
In only-monitored patients without a treatment, once every 6 months PSA levels are measured and perrectum examination is performed. Biopsy should be performed once a year to determine if there are
new, high GS tumor structures.
Patients after treatment - radical prostatectomy, radical radiotherapy or having hormonal treatment
are followed up initially after 3 months - PSA examination, physical examination, including per rectum,
later once every six months. In disseminated diseases with hormonal treatment, follow up visits are
more often, and depending on the patient's complaints, necessary examinations are performed to
ensure that the necessary treatment is started in time.
Also, CBC and LFTs should be monitored in patients with hormonal therapy.
After radical radiotherapy, renal ultrasound check and renal function check (urea, creatinine) are also
recommended - because of the risk of fibrosis in the lesser pelvis and associated increased risk of
ureteric stenosis with subsequent hydronephrosis and renal insufficiency.
In advanced prostate cancer, as well as during stabilized phase of the disease, examinations are
required to check the condition of the skeleton - skeletal scintigraphy, alkaline phosphatase level
measuring - usually once a year.

161

23.10 PROGNOSIS
Prognosis of the disease is dependent on its extent determined by TNM classification, Gleason score
(GS), and pre-treatment PSA levels. Patient's general condition and age are also important.
In early stages of the disease, 10-year survival rate is reported to be between 75-93%. In case of
generalized disease, survival is usually 18–30 months, but thanks to new preparations it can prolong to
up to 5 years.

162

24 MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE BLADDER
Eva Kindlová

24.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
In the Czech Republic, bladder tumors are the 6th most frequent cancer in men and the 13th in women.
As in other industrialized countries, the incidence is increasing, while mortality remains practically the
same.

24.2 ETIOLOGY
The most prominent etiological factor for urothelial cancer is cigarette smoking. In smokers, the
incidence of bladder cancer is 2-4 times higher than in non-smokers and tumors have a lower degree of
differentiation. Professional risks include contact with aromatic amine substances in the rubber industry,
the textile industry, painters and hairdressers. The most significant risk factor for epidermoid carcinoma
is schistosomiasis, as well as chronic irritation such as chronic cystitis, lithiasis or catheter.

24.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
Symptoms can be divided into local, locoregional and general.
Local symptoms:
▪ microscopic hematuria occurs in almost all patients, macroscopic hematuria – painless and often
intermittent is the most common symptom that warns of disease (75-80% of patients),
▪ various forms of micturition problems – dysuria, stranguria or urgency – are more often
accompanied by advanced disease than early stages.
Locoregional symptoms – usually present in locally advanced disease:
▪ lumbalgia – pain from ureter obstruction,
▪ lymphedema of the lower extremities in massive lymph node involvement.
General symptoms accompanying advanced or generalized disease:
▪ fatigue, anorexia, cachexia, anemia,
▪ algic syndrome in skeletal metastases,
▪ symptoms from affected organs (CNS, hepatopathy, etc.).

24.4 DIAGNOSTICS
If bladder disease is suspected, the following examinations are required:
▪ Clinical physical examination
▪ Urine examination - chemically, bacteriologically and cytologically
▪ Ultrasonography or CT of the bladder and excretory urography
▪ Diagnostic cystoscopy, including evaluation of transurethral resection (TUR)

163

In case of suspicion, it is necessary to perform transurethral resection of suspect site, which will
determine the histological diagnosis including the depth of infiltration of the bladder wall. Subsequent
treatment is then derived from these results. TUR has precisely defined rules – extent, depth of resection
performed, sites which can be resected even in the case of non-mucosal mucosal findings – prostatic
part of the urethra, so-called random biopsy – multiple biopsies from normal-looking urothelium in case
of suspected Tis (tumor in situ), but can be replaced by targeted biopsy using fluorescent cystoscopy with
5-aminolevulinic acid. In indicated cases, a second resection is also performed after 2-6 weeks (in
multiple and large-scale tumors, in high grading, or in the absence of detrusor muscle in the sample)
Evaluation of the extent of the disease includes X-ray of the lungs, complete blood count and
biochemistry, ultrasounds and CT abdomen. In the case of symptoms or demonstrably advanced disease,
which cause suspicion of involvement of other organs, further examinations are necessary to exclude
generalization – CT of the lung, CT or MRI of the brain, skeletal scintigraphy, etc.

24.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
It is necessary to exclude:
▪ chronic inflammation,
▪ acute inflammation,
▪ benign tumors (e.g. papillomas),
▪ hematuria for reasons other than those listed above (post-medication),
▪ clotting disorders.

24.6 PATHOLOGY
A tumor of epithelial origin is typical for the bladder. It is based on the urothelial lining of the bladder.
The most common type is urothelial carcinoma (in more than 90%). Significantly less frequent are
epidermoid carcinoma (infection is a risk factor here) and adenocarcinoma.
Bladder cancer is divided into non-invasive or superficial (does not grow into muscle) and invasive or
infiltrating (grows into muscle) and it is an important factor when choosing the right treatment.
The panurothelial nature of the disease is typical (occurrence is possible in the upper urinary tract,
bladder and urethra) and manifestations of this include multiple findings and frequent recurrence.

24.7 THERAPY
Therapy is different depending on whether the tumor infiltrates the bladder muscle or not.

24.7.1 Treatment of non-invasive bladder cancers
Treatment modalities:
▪ transurethral resection TUR,
▪ intravesical instillation - cytostatics or immunotherapy,
▪ cystectomy.

164

The next course of action, i.e. monitoring or intravesical treatment, depends on the risk of recurrence
and progression, which we estimate based on prognostic factors:
▪ Distinction between Ta (non-invasive papillary carcinoma) and Tis (tumor in situ) T1 (tumor affects
subepithelial connective tissue),
▪ Degree of cell differentiation G1 - 3,
▪ The frequency of previous relapses,
▪ Number of tumors, areal extent and presence of accompanying site Tis.
Treatment procedures for non-invasive urothelial carcinoma after TUR
▪ Only follow-ups – low risk tumors – primary, solitary TaG1 and less than 3 cm,
▪ Intravesical instillation – in patients with moderate risk tumors – Ta(m) (multiple) G1, TaG2, T1G12,
Cytostatics used - mitomycin-C, epirubicin, or BCG vaccine
▪ Cystectomy in superficial bladder tumors is considered in patients with high-risk types of these
tumors when local or intravesical treatment fails.

24.7.2 Treatment of invasive bladder cancers
Treatment modalities:
▪ surgery,
▪ chemotherapy - neoadjuvant and adjuvant,
▪ radiotherapy,
▪ combination of modalities.
stage II – tumor affects muscle, negative LU - T2a, b, NO
stage III – tumor affects muscle T3a, b, infiltrates prostate, uterus, vagina T4a, NO
1. radical surgery - treatment of choice is radical cystoprostatectomy with pelvic lymphadenectomy
in men, in women cystectomy, hysterectomy with adnexectomy and lymphadenectomy with
urine derivation.
2. Systemic treatment
a. neoadjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin before cystectomy - the aim is to eradicate
potential micrometastases or down-staging. Currently, neoadjuvant chemotherapy is
preferred to adjuvant.
b. adjuvant chemotherapy is considered after cystectomy in locally advanced tumors (pT3,
pT4) and in the detection of lymphovascular invasion.
Cytostatics - cisplatin (DDP), methotrexate (MTX), vinblastine (VBL), doxorubicin (DOXO),
gemcitabine (GEM) are used.
3. Multimodal bladder sparing procedure – recently, the use of restorative procedures has been on
the rise in oncology. In this case, the maximum TUR is followed by chemoradiotherapy – cisplatin
and external radiotherapy up to 45 Gy followed by control cystoscopy. If tumor cells are found,
the patient is indicated for surgery. If tumor cells are not found, radiotherapy is finished by going
up to a radical dose of 65 Gy and followed by dispenzarization.
4. Radical radiotherapy – in the case of an operable tumor, if the patient is not able to undergo
cystectomy (for internal reasons or at his own request), radical radiotherapy up to a total dose of
65 Gy is indicated.
165

a. External radiotherapy EBRT is used, intensively modulated by IMRT – target volume
according to the extent of the disease – bladder area or bladder and regional lymph
nodes
b. A 25 -28 fraction mode of 1.8-2 Gy + boost 8-10x 2 Gy is used
c. Fractionation can be shortened in elderly patients, patients in a generally poor condition
or patients with a higher amount of comorbidities.

24.7.3 Stage IV - locoregional advanced tumors Tx N1-3, M0
▪ neoadjuvant chemotherapy,
▪ radical surgical treatment in operable tumors (radical cystectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy),
▪ adjuvant systemic chemotherapy is a considered treatment option, especially if neoadjuvant
chemotherapy has not been administered,
▪ radiotherapy - in the case of a residual tumor after cystectomy, radiotherapy is indicated (if the
patient is in good condition).

24.7.4 Treatment of generalized bladder cancer - Tx Nx M1
In the case of good overall condition, the following procedures are possible:
▪ systemic chemotherapy (cis-platinum, carboplatin, gemcitabine, vinflunine, paclitaxel –
immunotherapy) (check point inhibitors – atezolizumab, nivolumab, pembrolizumab),
▪ surgical treatment – in indicated cases it is possible to use surgery as palliative treatment –
removal of metastases causing pressure on organs or pain; possible orthopedic intervention – e.g.
in case of spine involvement (stabilization, alleviation of tumor pressure on the spinal cord),
▪ radiotherapy – indications similar as in surgery, also bladder bleeding and metastases to CNS –
external radiotherapy fractionated (most often 5x4 or 10x3 Gy), in some cases stereotactic
irradiation may be considered,
▪ palliative – taking care of patients nutrition and treatment of symptoms such as pain, hematuria
(endoscopic coagulation, embolization, radiotherapy) and hydronephrosis

24.8 POST-TREATMENT COMPLICATIONS
Complications arise from the treatment – haematuria, dysuria, infection after TUR or intravesical
applications, classic postoperative complications and metabolic complications after urinary derivation.
After chemotherapy pancytopenia, nausea, fatigue syndrome and paraesthesia. After radiotherapy, we
see complications similar to those of lesser pelvis irradiation in prostate cancer (early and late) – see the
section on prostate cancer.

24.9 FOLLOW-UP
The basis for follow-up of patients with bladder cancer is endo-urological examinations, which are
sufficient in case of superficial bladder cancer. Follow-up intravenous urography (IVU) is indicated only in
poorly differentiated superficial tumors. First follow-up cystoscopy is indicated in 3 months after TUR
and further check-ups depend on findings and prognostic criteria. Regular physical examination,
sampling, CT scan of the lesser pelvis and examinations according to the patient's problems.

166

24.10 PROGNOSIS
The prognosis depends on the stage of the disease. In the case of superficial tumors, the prognosis is
favorable. The greatest risk lies in frequent relapses. The need for careful long-term follow-ups is a
consequence of the risk of progression of superficial carcinoma from non-invasive to invasive, which
significantly worsens the prognosis.

167

25 PRIMARY MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE CENTRAL NERVOUS
SYSTEM
Svatava Urbanová, Ludmila Loukotková

25.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
Primary malignant tumors of the brain and spinal cord, i.e. the central nervous system, represent 1–2%
of all cancers. In Czech Republic there are about 700 new cases per year. Incidence in the adult
population is rising. The incidence curve has two peaks in two different ages. The first is in childhood
(under 5 years) and the other is between 60-80 years of life.

25.2 ETIOLOGY
Risk factors are not known. Approximately 5% of tumors are hereditary, mainly in pediatric and younger
patients (e.g. neurofibromatosis – occurrence of multiple tumors along nerves and subcutaneous tissue).
CNS tumors originate from brain and spinal cord cells, from attached tissues, cerebrospinal envelopes
and from the remnants of mesenchymal and epithelial tissue. The largest group among them are tumors
from support cells (astroglia, oligodendroglia) – gliomas, which account for about 50% of tumors.
Another 20% are tumors from the brain and spinal cord, meningiomas. These tumors are diverse in their
origin, but also in their biological behavior.

25.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
Some tumors can be completely asymptomatic and are diagnosed as a random finding, for example, in a
CT scan done after a fall or a car accident.
Intracranial hypertension syndrome
Under this term we can imagine a set of problems such as vomiting (mostly without feeling sick, more
often in the morning), severe headaches, foggy or double vision, disorders of consciousness ranging from
sleepiness to unconsciousness.
Epileptic seizure
Lighter form may be twitching of some limbs or as a state of short-term absence. If the seizure is
widespread, it may be accompanied by impaired consciousness, twitching of all limbs, wetting, and
severe jaw tightening with the risk of tongue biting.
Site symptoms
They appear to be functional failures of certain parts of the brain that are pressurized or damaged by a
growing tumor. Tumors near the movement center can cause varying intensity of movement disorders,
ranging from minimal disorders (such as shirt buttoning problems) to severe, in the sense of paralysis
throughout the body. Similarly, the center of speech, hearing, sight, etc. may be impaired. A tumor may
also manifest itself through a personality change.

168

25.4 DIAGNOSTICS
Any patient with the above-mentioned, even mild symptoms should be examined by a neurologist.
Further diagnostic procedures are indicated based on neurological examination. Basic imaging methods
with the highest yield include magnetic resonance imaging, in case of impossibility of examination or
contraindication (e.g. pacemaker), computer tomography is indicated. Based on the results of these
examinations, it is possible in most cases to decide on the suitability of the surgical solution. Recently,
the importance of positron emission tomography has been increasing. Electroencephalography and
ocular background examination to exclude congestion are also part of the comprehensive examination.
Stereotactic biopsy is performed in patients with an inoperable tumor to determine the histological type
of tumor.

25.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
Diagnostic indecision in brain tumor diseases is not very common. That is, assuming the first contact
physician does not underestimate the symptoms indicated by the patient and sends him for a
neurological examination where other necessary examinations are ordered.

25.6 PATHOLOGY
Primary brain tumors are a very diverse group. Most often arise from cells of supporting brain tissue
(neuroglia) – gliomas, make up more than 50% of all CNS tumors. According to certain histological signs
and disease behaviors, gliomas are simplified into low-grade gliomas and high-grade gliomas, which is
important for both the choice of therapy and the assessment of prognosis of the patient.
Glioma with low degree of malignancy (oligodendroglioma, astrocytoma) – grows slowly (years), more
often in younger age groups (20-40 years), but its growth is not well limited from surrounding healthy
brain tissue and therefore it is often not completely removed in surgery. It may be the same size over
years or grow slowly. Over time, genetic mutations may cause the tumor to progress into a more
aggressive form of glioma.
Glioma with a high degree of malignancy (anaplastic oligodendroglioma / astrocytoma, glioblastoma) –
can arise in two ways. Either natural development through other genetic disorders from low malignant
glioma or directly from healthy neuroglia. These highly malignant gliomas are characterized by rapid
aggressive growth (weeks or months) with unclear borders, more often affecting older individuals (after
50 years of age). Complete removal is usually impossible. Relapses often occur (regrowth at the site after
surgery).
Of frequent brain tumors, meningiomas should be mentioned – predominantly benign tumors based on
meninges. They are more common in women after 50 years of age. Despite their "benign nature", they
can be dangerous due to their growth and pressure on surrounding structures, which can cause major
health problems.
Furthermore, cerebrospinal nerve tumors – neurinomas, mostly benign. Pituitary adenomas manifested
by disorders of hormonal function. Tumors of predominantly child age are meduloblastomas and
ependymomas that can spread through cerebrospinal fluid (fluid in the cerebral ventricles and between
meninges).

169

Classification
TNM CLASSIFICATION IS NOT APPLICABLE TO BRAIN TUMORS.
The TNM classification of brain tumors adopted in the 4th edition (1987) was removed in the 5th edition
of the TNM classification (1997), as its essential prognostic significance has not been demonstrated.
Tumor size (T) has been shown to be much less important than tumor histology and location.
Age, general and neurological status and extent of resection are also considered to be significant
prognostic factors. Complete tumor resection, the so-called R0 resection, is prognostically more
favourable than R1 resection, where there is a microscopic or macroscopic overlap of the tumor into the
resection margin.

25.7 THERAPY
The therapy procedure should be based on the decision of multidisciplinary team, which includes a
neurosurgeon, neurologist and an oncologist. The basic treatment approach for brain tumors is
neurosurgery. Ideally, complete tumor extirpation (R0 operation). Partial operation always has worse
treatment results. Inoperable brain tumor must be verified by stereotactic biopsy. On rare occasions,
oncological therapy (radiotherapy or chemotherapy) can be indicated in unverified tumors, e.g. at an
intolerable risk of performing biopsy puncture in the area of the brain stem, based on a characteristic
imaging of the brain by CT and/or MRI.
Radiotherapy is one of the basic treatment methods. It can be used as an adjuvant method after surgery
or as a radical method where surgery is not suitable for tumor location, progression or type.
Chemotherapy has a significant therapeutic effect only in some brain tumors (e.g. lymphomas and
germinative tumors), in most tumors it is a palliative method. Post-operative application of
chemotherapy in pediatric and adolescent patients (PNET tumors, ependymoblastomas or
pinealoblastomas) is governed by specialized treatment protocols.
Concomitant chemoradiotherapy is used in therapy, especially in therapy of high-grade gliomas,
provided the patient is in good general condition and there is no other contraindication to
administration.
Stereotactic radiotherapy (Leksell gamma knife) may be used in the treatment of small tumors or minor
postoperative residues (1–3 cm).

25.8 POST-TREATMENT COMPLICATION
We refer to treatment-related health changes as early – during therapy or within 6 months of
discontinuation, and late, which occur after more than half a year. During treatment, neurological
symptomatology may worsen – headache, convulsions, vomiting, sensory disorders or movement
disorders. Postirradiation necrosis of brain tissue is one of the most serious late complications.

25.9 FOLLOW-UP
An integral part of patient care is regular monitoring after the end of therapy, so that early recurrence of
the disease is caught early or possible treatment complications are minimized.

170

Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging and computer tomography belong once again among basic
examination methods, together with neurological and oncological clinical examination. In the first year of
follow-up of a patient with a low malignancy tumor, we perform an MRI examination every 6 months,
and in tumors with a high degree of malignancy every 3 months. In the second year of patient follow-up,
the periods between imaging examinations are doubled.

25.10 PROGNOSIS
Prognostic factors include:
● Age at the time of diagnosis
The age under 40 is usually associated with longer survival in the same tumor type than in the elderly.
● General health status at the time of diagnosis
Survival duration is significantly negatively influenced by a serious intercurrent illnesses.
● Histopathological grading
It significantly affects the prognosis of the disease. In general, tumor malignancy increases with
increasing numbers of mitoses, cellular atypia, and the presence of necrosis.
● Tumor localization and size at the time of diagnosis
Tumors of the brainstem or regions of functionally significant centers of dominant hemisphere may be
inoperable, limited in treatment or may damage vital centers.

171

26 SECONDARY MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE CENTRAL NERVOUS
SYSTEM
Tomáš Blažek

26.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
Secondary malignant tumors of the central nervous system occupy a relatively important position within
CNS malignancies. The incidence of these neoplasms is up to 10 times higher compared to primary brain
tumors. These include metastatic tumors of the brain and cerebral vessels, spinal cord, spinal canal and
vertebral bodies. The occurrence of these neoplasms is closely related to the treatment of primary solid
tumors. In particular, advances in systemic treatment of solid tumors has improved overall patient
survival, however on the other hand, it increases the chances of the surviving patients to develop brain
metastases. The occurrence of these tumors related to the age of patients does not reach a specific
peak.

26.2 ETIOLOGY
Secondary CNS tumors are formed by metastasizing malignant tumors from other regions. Risk factors
include grading, tumor aggressiveness and, in particular, histological tumor type. Breast, lung, melanoma
and kidney cancers have a high affinity to metastasize into the CNS, while prostate, pancreatic, biliary
tract or liver cancers rarely metastasize into the CNS. The stage of disease and tumor location also play a
major role in the development of metastasis. Bulky apical lung tumors or affected supraclavicular lymph
nodes in lung tumors are associated with a higher risk of brain metastasis. A specific case is described in
bulky esophageal tumors or lung tumors localized paravertebrally which can cause spinal compression
through direct ingrowth (per continuitatem) into the body of the vertebral body and thoracic wall. In
histological terms, the most frequent metastases are carcinomas of the breast, kidney, melanoma, and
lung. Metastases of prostate, breast, lung, and kidney cancers dominate the axial spinal skeleton and
dural sac.
Other variants of solid tumors such as colorectal carcinomas, pancreaticobiliary tract tumors or
gynecological malignancies tend to establish visceral metastases. CNS or spinal canal involvement is not
typical of these tumors, but however cannot be excluded.

26.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
The disease is usually manifested by similar clinical symptoms as primary CNS tumors. The course is
usually acute, and in terms of neurological complications, it is associated with intracranial hypertension
and focal disability.
Collapse states, headache, dizziness, double vision, visual field disturbances, motor affection,
disorders of standing and walking, hemiparesis, speech disorders (dysarthria, aphasia) nausea, vomiting,
qualitative disturbances of consciousness (confusion, disorientation of time, person, space) and
quantitative disturbance of consciousness (somnolence, sopor) may occur.

172

Often, the first symptoms are seizures, most often focal, ie. twitching of specific parts of limbs, shortterm loss of consciousness (absence) or with complex symptomatology in the sense of disturbed
consciousness accompanied by tonic-clonic seizures with wetting, biting and eventually sinking of the
tongue.
Pain is among the first symptoms. In particular, vertebrogenic pain syndrome in metastatic
involvement of the spine and spinal canal, it is usually accompanied by numbing pain (neuropathic)
which require intense analgesic therapy. When spinal roots are compressed or infiltrated in the lumbar
spine, root pain can evolve over the course of a few weeks or more months.
Acute spinal cord compression is one of the urgent states in oncology. A timely diagnosis and
strategy of treatment is essential from the point of further progression of the patient. More info below.
The clinical picture often is manifested by acute hemiparesis, paraparesis, hemiplegia, paraplegia
(disorder of movement of limbs influenced by localized affection).

26.4 DIAGNOSTICS
The basis of diagnostics is a full physical examination, including a professional neurological examination,
in order to exclude other etiologies other than oncological. Imaging examinations that specify the extent
of the disease are crucial. CT scans of the brain, spine and targeted X-ray images are readily fast and
available.
The key to a proper diagnosis is a Brain and Spine MRI, and it is indispensable for determining a
proper treatment strategy. It allows for a detailed examination of the tumour invasion into both soft and
hard tissues. In the case of brain tissue, it is able to uncover infiltration of the meninges or even
metastatic locales the size of a few millimeters and their relationship with other important structures
such as the brain stem , chiasma opticum, nn.optici and more.
Invasive methods of diagnosis, such as biopsy or excision of a metastatic lesion is not obligatory and
depends on several factors. In the case of true metastatic involvement, with risk of deterioration or
development of neurological complications after an intervention, the verification process is
contraindicated. The indication of any intervention is consulted with a neurosurgeon.
The diagnosis of leptomeningeal involvement must be based not only on MRI findings, but also on
cytological examination of cerebrospinal fluid from a lumbar puncture. The complete complex
examination also includes an examination of the eye in order to exclude vascular congestion and
papilloedema.

26.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
Often the clinical picture in combination with symptomatology and imaging methods are so convincing
that there is no doubt about the diagnosis. Doubts may arise in patients in complete remission after
radical treatment of primary oncological disease who show unclear findings on imaging (often in cases of
smaller solitary lesions). The differential diagnosis may be non-oncological or oncological. From nononcological disease, it may possibly be a cerebral vascular accident, AV malformation, aneurysm,
neuroinfection (abscess, mycosis, parasite), post traumatic changes, or bleeding into the brain. From
oncological possibilities, it may be a primary tumor of the CNS, which can be differentiated by
histological verification from a resection or biopsy.

173

26.6 THERAPY
In therapy, we are able to distinguish between acute phase treatment and treatment after the
stabilization of the acute phase.
Acute phase of the disease: is typically characterized by neurological symptoms - seizures, diplopia,
visual field disturbances, motor disturbances, disorders of standing or walking, dysarthria, vertigo,
nausea, headache, pain, disorders of consciousness… see above for more.
The therapy is aimed at alleviating the problematic symptoms, stabilization of the patient and
improving the patient's general state so that diagnostic tests can be performed and a further treatment
strategy can be planned. The treatment plan is based on anti-edematous therapy in the form of i.v.
administration of corticosteroids (Dexamed 8-10 mg) at intervals of 6-8 hours, in combination with a 20%
infusion of Mannitol every 12 hours. Concurrently, administration of proton pump inhibitors (Loseprazol,
Helicide, ...) is indicated as prophylaxis against the development of gastroduodenal uclers, which may
occur with administration of high doses of corticoids. The therapy of seizures is carried out in
cooperation with a neurologist, with whom it is possible to prescribe anti-epileptics (valproic acid
derivatives) and in strictly indicated cases anticonvulsants (benzodiazepines), which can be administered
only with subsequent vital function monitoring, due to the possibility of respiratory depression. Antiemetic therapy usually consists of prokinetic therapy, such as metoclopramide (Degan, Cerucal) or more
effective centrally acting drugs such as - thietylperazine (Torecan).
Acute pain therapy is individualized according to the type of pain and etiology. Mild headaches will
respond well to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (Ibalgin, Indometacin, Novalgin, Algifen, Panadol).
In the case of neuropathic pain, usually due to infiltration of nerve roots during metatstatic affection of
the spine with compression of the dural sac, it is advised to use combination therapy of non-steroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs (Diclofenac, Novalgin) and opioids in the form of tablets or transdermal patches
(Palexia tbl., Transtec derm., Fentanyl derm.). Subcutaneous or intravenous administration of opioids is
uncommon.

Post stabilization phase and therapeutic balance: after the acute phase calms and passes, it is necessary
to evaluate the extent of CNS involvement and also to evaluate the activity of the primary tumor
affection. For this purpose, staging examinations are used - MRI of brain and spine, eventually CT, where
it is necessary to search and monitor the number of metastatic lesions, their size and location. Primary
tumorous disease is examined and re-staged using CT or PET / CT, and diagnostic laboratory tumor
markers. When trying to determine the next treatment strategy, it is essential to determine whether the
primary malignancy is in remission or rather progressing in other organs outside of the CNS.
The results of individual examinations, the patient's overall performance status and age are important
factors in determining the next treatment strategy.
These factors are highlighted in RPA Criteria (Risk Prognostic Assessment), in which patients are divided
into 3 groups according to the median of estimated overall survival after treatment. In the 1st group, the
median survival was 7.1 months, while in the 3rd group, the survival time of patients is about 2.3
months. Depending on the level of risk and the group to which the patient is assigned, the treatment
strategy is chosen, reflecting the optimal treatment modality. The treatment plan must have the
maximum benefit for the patient with the lowest possible adverse effects affecting the quality of life.
Taking into account the above-mentioned statistical results of patient survival, the chance of cure is very

174

low. In the vast majority of cases, the treatment is palliative, so it is important that it should not hurt the
patient or impair the quality of life in any way.

26.6.1 Therapy of brain metastasis
There are 3 treatment modalities available in the treatment of brain metastases that can be used
independently or in a combined fashion. When choosing a particular modality, all factors are evaluated
by a so-called multidisciplinary team, which is comprised of a radiation oncologist, neurosurgeon and
radiologist.

Surgical resection: the advantage of this modality is maximum tumor removal, with the ability to
perform accurate histological examination. An important criteria is a patient's good performance status
and ability to under general anesthesia. Resection is optimal for solitary surface deposits with
voluminous vasogenic edema or for those causing cerebrospinal fluid blockage. Contraindications to
surgery are bulky lesions or, on the contrary, smaller lesions located deep, near important centers,
whose damage during resection would cause negative functional results. An independent surgical
resection of a locus is never a definitive treatment for a patient, a must always be supplemented with
postoperative radiotherapy (stereotactic radiation resection or whole brain radiotherapy).

Stereo-radiosurgery (SRS), stereotactic radiotherapy (SRT): is indicated in more cases than when
compared to surgery. It allows for treatment of older patients with comorbidities in whom surgical
treatment under general anesthesia would be risky. Other indications include minor lesions, deep lesions
near risky organs and important centers.
When compared to surgical treatment this method is recommended for oligo-metastatic affection,
which have < 3 lesions. It should always be indicated after resection of the metastasis within the
postoperative inpatient irradiation. Stereotactic irradiation is very accurate but technically demanding.
In principle, it is about delivering a very high dose in a short time to a small, well-defined target
volume. In the case of SRS, it is in the form of 1 fraction, in the case of SRT 3-5 fractions. See the
radiotherapy chapter for more details.
Fixation of the head with a stereotactic frame is necessary to prevent "missed targets" and
subsequent irradiation of healthy tissues. In the case of Leksell's gamma knife, this frame is fixed to the
skull by screws. In the case of Cyber Knife or Linear Accelerator, a non-invasive fixation with a special
thermoplastic mask is used.

Whole Brain Radiotherapy (WBRT): is an effective and proven treatment modality. Together with
surgical resection it belongs to historically older modalities compared to SRS and SRT. The irradiation
technique is very simple and fast - irradiation of the skull from two opposite fields. It is used especially in
patients with worse overall status (low performance status), lower expected overall survival (life
expectancy). It is clearly preferred in patients with non-oligometastatic involvement; meaning in all
patients contraindicated for surgical resection and in patients with > 4 metastases. A post-operative
indication after resection of metastasis has been slowly replaced by stereotactic radiotherapy (SRT). This
175

is due to lower toxicity of SRT compared to WBRT. Studies have shown a decline in cognitive functions,
particularly short-term memory on average 4 months after completion of radiotherapy of the entire
neurocranium. If SRT is not possible, then WBRT is always standardly indicated after the operation.

Summary:
▪ surgical resection is preferred for solitary metastases, larger in size, and superficially located.
Patients in good overall condition, and able to tolerate surgery. Ideally in patients with better
prognosis, as in lung or breast cancer. Radiotherapy (SRT or WBRT) must always be indicated
postoperatively,
▪ stereo radiosurgery or stereotactic radiotherapy (SRS,SRT) jis indicated for oligometastatic
involvement (<3-4 metastases), in patients unsuitable for surgery, and in lesions located close to
important centers. Currently preferred and indicated in postoperative radiotherapy after resection
of metastasis. SRT + WBRT is not recommended becasuse of higher toxicity.
▪ Whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) is the gold standard in patients with multiple metastatic foci,
poor overall states, poor overall prognosis and shorter estimated survival times. It is indicated
postoperatively if SRT is not possible

The radiation doses applied with WBRT are most often 30 Gy / 10 fractions or 3 Gy eventually 20 Gy /
4-5 fractions, 12 Gy / 2 fractions with a weekly pause between Fraction 1 and Fraction 2. In the case of
stereotactic radiation, doses are individually tailored to tumor size, localization and risk organs. Examples
of SRS fractionation schemes are 24 Gy / 1 fraction, 18 Gy / 1 fraction and for SRT 3-5 fractions with a
dose of 8-10 Gy per fraction.

26.6.2 Systemic therapy of brain metastasis
Treatment of brain metastases with the help of chemotherapy is very difficult to handle and poorly
effective. This is due to the low permeability of most chemotherapeutic agents through the blood-brain
barrier. As an exception, a combination of carboplatin with etoposide, which is widely used in the
treatment of small cell lung cancers, may be used.

This is not the case for targeted therapy and immunotherapy, where results are noticeably better.
Her2-neu positive breast cancers with metastasis affecting CNS can be treated with lapatinib, which is a
dual tyrosine kinase Her2 receptor blocker that freely crosses the blood-brain barrier. The results of new
studies show a relatively significant effectiveness of targeted therapy in metastatic non-small cell lung
cancer with ALK + mutation. Similar results are shown by studies of metastatic malignant melanoma
therapy using immunotherapy. In both cases (pulmonary carcinoma and melanoma) the patients were
not irradiated. Systemic therapy was highly effective. Thus, it can be assumed that for this narrowly
specified group of patients, radiotherapy can be omitted at least in the initial phase of the treatment
algorithm.

176

26.6.3 Prophylactic Brain Irradiation
Whole brain radiotherapy is specially indicated in a select group of patients.The treatment aims to
reduce respectively prevent the development of metastatic disease in the CNS. It is part of the small cell
lung cancer treatment protocol and is also used in hemato-oncology. In the case of small cell lung cancer,
it reduces the risk of developing metastases by 50%, and according to some studies by up to 80%, which
positively correlates with patient survival. The applied dose is 25 Gy / 10 fractions.
In hemato-oncology, the indications of brain radiation after inductive systemic chemotherapy in the
therapy of AML and ALL. The applicated does is approximately form 12-18 Gy 5x a week and 1.5-1.8 Gy
per fraction.

26.6.4 Therapy of leptomeningeal metastasis
Metastatic meningeal involvement is less common than focal brain involvement. However, the clinical
course of the disease is all the more serious and patients' prognosis worse. It manifests with various
symptoms ranging from vision disorders, diplopia and intense headaches, which is poorly responsive to
analgesics, to qualitative and quantitative disorders of consciousness. MRI is essential in the diagnosis,
and is made to show meningeal infiltration. CT is not advantageous in this case. Diagnosis must be
confirmed cytologically from cerebrospinal fluid. Early therapy is similar to therapy of brain metastasis
where antiedematous therapy, analgesics, etc. are indicated. After stabilization of acute symptoms,
palliative radiotherapy (WBRT) at 30Gy / 10 fraction is indicated. After the last radiotherapeutic fraction,
cerebrospinal fluid is collected once more and evaluated. The next steps depend on the general
condition of the patient and cytological findings in cerebrospinal fluid.
In the case of negative cytological findings and good performance status, intrathecal administration
of chemotherapy (methotrexate) through an implanted Omayo reservoir is indicated. Alternatively it is
possible to continue radiotherapy in the craniospinal axis and escalation of dose (boost) to the
meningeal infiltration sites. Both options are relatively risky in terms of unwanted side effects. In the
case of intrathecal administration, up to 50% of patients are at risk of developing arachnoiditis.
Irradiation of the craniospinal axis, on the other hand, is accompanied by myelotoxicity and general
worsening of the state of the patient, therefore this variant is preferred in radiosensitive tumors
(lymphomas, germinal tumors). In other cases, intrathecal administration of chemotherapy is therefore
more preferred.
Worsening of the general condition (CI <60%), positive findings in cerebrospinal fluid or multiple
disabilities are important factors of poor prognosis. Further therapy is therefore limited. Usually, the
patient can be offered a limited field radiotherapy to the greatest affected area with a dose escalation
attempt. In most cases, however, the progression is symptomatic, and supportive therapy is the final
step, with the disease progressing rapidly and death following shortly thereafter.

26.7 METASTATIC SPINAL CORD COMPRESSION
Spinal cord compression is one of the acute conditions in oncology. The prognosis of patients with this
condition is highly dependent on early recognition of symptoms, accurate diagnosis and initiation of
treatment. Time plays a very important role, any delay in starting treatment can lead to fatal
consequences.

177

Etiology
Metastatic spinal cord compression manifests in approximately 5-14% of all cancer patients. It depends
on the type of malignancy respectively, histological findings. The most common diagnoses to cause
compression include breast carcinomas (29%), lung carcinomas (17%) and prostate carcinomas (14%).
Cord compression can occur due to 2 mechanisms:
▪ expansion and in growth of metastatic vertebral masses into the dural sac,
▪ expansion into intervertebral foramina by tumor mass,
▪ destruction of vertebral bodies by tumor lysis with pathological fractures causing the expansion of
fragments into the spinal canal.
All three mechanisms can be combined in the pathogenesis.
Symptomatology
Typical symptoms include pain and irritative neurological symptoms. Symptoms can be expressed
individually to varying degrees. The pain is usually localized at the site of the affliction, but infiltration of
the lumbo-sacral roots may manifest in the root dermatomes. The intensity of pain varies, from slight
post-exertional vertebralgia to severe pain syndromes with a neuropathic component of pain requiring
combined analgesia or analgosedation.
Irritative neurological symptoms manifest themselves as paresthesias, dysesthesias, and
proprioception disorders. Patients report impairment of stability and confidence when walking (feelings
of walking on moss, loss of solid ground under their feet…) Loss of feeling phenomena are typical in the
development of paresis or plegias. Generally, the intensity of symptoms and their rate of onset is directly
proportional to the volume of metastatic involvement.
Diagnostics
Diagnosis must never be delayed. In spinal compression, "every minute" is valuable. The base for proper
diagnosis is an expert neurological examination, which helps to identify the location of the lesion and,
above all, is able to distinguish non-malignant causes of the problem.
The gold standard for diagnosis is MRI of spine. Only MRI provides adequate soft tissue resolution and
tumor infiltration pictures. If MRI is not possible for reasons other than time (cardiac pacemaker,
claustrophobia, obesity), a CT scan with i.v. contrast medium must be made. The finding must always be
consulted with a neurosurgeon! (see therapy below). From a neurosurgical point of view, MRI imaging
allows for visualization, assessment of the severity of the lesion and determination of technical
possibilities in possible surgical intervention.
Prognostic factors related to spinal cord compression
One of the most important prognostic factors is the rate of onset of symptoms. The time from the first
symptoms of the ailment to the development of motor deficits is the strongest predictive factor in
maintaining mobility after oncological respectively neurosurgical treatment..
We are able to divide into 3 groups of patients (Rades et al):
▪ Group A – loss of mobility within 1–7 days = movement after treatment is 35 %
▪ Group B – loss of mobility within 8–14 days = movement after treatment is 55 %
▪ Group C – loss of mobility within > 14 days = movement after treatment is 86 %
As stated above that rapid diagnosis is essential to achieve the best treatment results.
178

Therapy
as mentioned above, time plays a crucial role in therapy. Acute spinal compression is an urgent condition
and must be treated within 24 hours at the latest! As with brain metastases, corticotherapy is of great
importance in spinal cord compression. It must be started as soon as possible; as suggested by the first
signs and suspicions of such diagnosis. Dexamethasone (Dexona) at a dose of 10 mg i.v. bolus followed
by 6-8 mg every 8 hours, with concomitant gastric protection of Proton Pump Inhibitors (loseprazol,
omeprazole…). Analgesic therapy is individual according to the intensity of the pain. Mild pains respond
well to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (Diclofenac, Indometacin, Novalgin, Algifen).
Combination therapy with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (Diclofenac, Novalgin) and opioids in
the form of tablets or transdermal patches (Palexia tbl., Transtec derm., Fentanyl derm.) Is required for
intense pain with a neuropathic component or for nerve root infiltration. Subcutaneous or intravenous
administration of opioids (Morphine) is uncommon.
Each patient must be consulted with a neurosurgeon as part of the diagnostic-therapeutic standpoint.
Surgical Intervention
It should always be preferred in symptomatic patients, meaning those with neurological deficit. Surgical
results are clearly better than when compared with independent radiotherapy.
According to a randomized phase III study, Patchel et al showed a significant improvement in motor
skills when decompression (laminectomy with resection of TU masses) and postoperative radiotherapy
were combined. Surgical treatment is indicated in those with signs of rapid neurological deterioration,
localization of the lesion in the upper levels of the cervical spine and in the case of unilateral
compression
Radioresistance of tumors (melanoma, renal Ca) is another factor for surgical intervention. Instability of
vertebral body and fragments of pathological fractures are high risk factors and may cause the need for
surgical intervention and stabilization, even though the patient may be asymptomatic.
Radiotherapy
Radiotherapy as an independent modality of treatment is effective in asymptomatic patients, meaning
patients with newly diagnosed metastatic spine involvement without neurological deficit. Both
conventional radiotherapeutic techniques and stereotactic irradiation may be applied. Neurosurgical
intervention may be omitted in radiosensitive tumors (lymphomas, leukemia, multiple myeloma,
germinal tumors) or in patients in whom systemic therapy is planned and life expectancy is > 3 months.
The condition is that the neurological deficit must not last longer than 24 hours!
However, if there is a significant worsening of the neurological deficit and pain intensity during
radiotherapy, re-consultation of the neurosurgeon and consideration of a surgical intervention may
occur. This may be a sign of progression of a radioresistant tumor during treatment.
In all other cases, including contraindications to neurosurgery, multiple disabilities, massive
infiltration, poor patient prognosis and marked progression of primary cancer, palliative radiation of
symptomatic areas is indicated in order to produce an analgesic effect.
The usual fractionation regimen used in spinal compression therapy is 30 Gy / 10 fraction and 3 Gy. In
patients with life expectancies <3 months, doses of 20 Gy / 5 fractions may be administered or 4 Gy or 8
Gy in one session.

179

26.7.1 Intramedullary spinal cord metastasis (ISCM)
Is a relatively rare group of approximately 1% of intramedullary tumors con-siting of most commonly
metastases of lung carcinomas (54%) and breast carcinomas (11%). The most noticeable difference
between intramedullary and extramedullary metastases is the high incidence of synchronous brain
metastases (41%) in ISCM patients. The diagnostic and therapeutic procedures are the same as in those
for acute spinal compression.

26.8 POST-TREATMENT COMPLICATIONS
Complications during treatment of secondary CNS tumors are not uncommon. Oncological disease
progresses frequently in the form of new metastatic lesions. The blockage of cerebrospinal fluid
circulation in tumors obstructing CSF pathways or even bleeding into the ventricular system are clinically
serious complications. A ventriculotomy is performed as therapy. Another relatively common
complication is an infection in the form of arachnoiditis, occurring in up to 50% of patients receiving
intrathecal chemotherapy. Skeletal or brain tissue radionecrosis is a complication of hypofractionated
stereotactic radiotherapy (SRT, SRS) regimens. Less common are the general risks of perioperative and
postoperative complications.

26.9 FOLLOW UP
The rules of follow-up are closely related to the primary malignancy, respectively evaluation of its
activity. When the primary disease is in remission, the focus is on secondary CNS involvement. Similarly
as in diagnostics, MRI, CT, and even X-ray are also used for imaging examinations of follow up patients.
The basis of indication to re-staging of the disease is the patient's general state, prognosis and.
treatment options that could be offered to the patient. If the patient's general condition is poor, the
disease progresses and treatment options are limited, then further patient care is symptomatic and restaging. examinations are indicated only in case of new symptoms and problems.
On the contrary, in patients with oligometastatic involvement after radical treatment of metastases
and good general condition with unlimited possibilities of cancer treatment there is a tendency to
actively monitor the development of the disease. For this reason, re-staging examinations (MRI, CT) are
indicated with the intention of excluding or respectively. catching early progression, in order to initiate
another line of treatment.

26.10 PROGNOSIS
The prognosis of secondary CNS tumors is unfavorable. Median survival is between 2-10 months despite
intensive treatment. The predictive factors of a good prognosis are as follows:
▪ Solitary foci affection,
▪ Tumor with favorable histology – Breast cancer, Lymphomas, Germinal tumors, Prostate Cancers,
Lung cancers with positively activated mutations (EGFR +, ALK+),
▪ In the case of spinal cord compression with a very gradual onset of symptoms that can be
neurosurgically removed,
▪ Primary disease in remission or partial regression.

180

On the contrary, leptomeningeal metastases, multiple CNS involvement, bones of the spine, acute
spinal compression with rapid onset of neurological symptoms within a few days or even hours, are
prognostically unfavorable. Histologically, metastases of carcinoma of kidney, lung carcinomas without
mutations, and melanoma, are all unfavorable. The overall prognosis is significantly limited by
progressive underlying cancer.

181

27 NON-MELANOMA SKIN CANCER
Jan Dvořák

27.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
They are the most common malignant tumors. The incidence in 2016 reached 267 new cases per 100,000
persons, 284 in men and 251 in women per 100,000. The highest incidence is in the high age groups. E.g.
in women over 80, the incidence is 1,522/100,000 women.

27.2 ETIOLOGY
Significant risk factors for skin cancer are:
a) chemical carcinogens:
▪ 3,4 benzpyrene,
▪ polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (tar, paraffin oil),
▪ arsenic,
▪ tobacco.
b) physical factors:
▪ UV radiation (component B),
▪ ionizing radiation (X-ray),
▪ chronic irritation (fistula, scars, burns, pressure sores, lupus).
c) viral carcinogenesis:
▪ HPV – 5 (human papilloma virus).
d) endogenous causes:
▪ genetic predisposition phototype I, II,
▪ congenital syndromes (xeroderma pigmentosum, nonlinear basalioma syndrome called Gorlin
syndrome),
▪ induced immunosuppression (after transplantation, CLL or AIDS).

27.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
Skin affections that do not heal, itch, bleed, increase in size, have a rough, rough surface or scale, should
be examined at a dermatological workplace.

27.4 DIAGNOSTICS
The high percentage rate of detection and early diagnosis is possible thanks to the surface localization of
skin cancer and good accessibility for examination. Nevertheless, patients, especially the elderly, come in
advanced disease stages.
Diagnosis can only be made on the basis of histology. The patient should undergo a basic clinical
examination, including a physical examination to rule out another lesion. Complementary examinations
such as X-ray of the lungs, US of regional nodes, laboratory examinations are indicated in cases of larger
tumors.
182

27.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
It is necessary to exclude inflammation, abscesses, other skin affections or precanceroses, ie skin
changes, which can lead to malignant tumors after some time.
The most common precanceroses are keratoses:
▪ solar (actinic) keratosis, which occurs in older people on senile degenerated skin, in a place
exposed to light - on the face, back of the hand, etc.
▪ radiation keratosis in the field of chronic X-ray dermatitis,
▪ thermal keratosis - after burns, in scars,
▪ keratoses resulting from the action of chemical carcinogens - tar, arsenic, mineral oils,
▪ leukoplakia that occur on the lip, oral cavity, genital,
▪ dysplastic nevi (non-cellular),
▪ condylomata accuminata.

27.6 PATHOLOGY
Classification of skin tumors is based on their histological and pathological structure. We divide them
according to the structures from which they originate:
Epithelial
▪ benign - verrucas,
▪ malignant - basaliomas, spinaliomas, Bowen's disease (chest), Erythroplasia of Queyrat , Paget's
disease, keratoacanthoma.
Adnexal
▪ trichoepithelioma (from hair follicles),
▪ syringoma (sweat glands)
▪ cylindroma (from sweat glands or hair follicles).
Mesenchymal
▪ benign - hemangiomas, fibromas, leiomyomas, lipomas,
▪ malignant - sarcomas, dermatofibrosarcoma, fibrosarcoma, liposarcoma, Kaposi's sarcoma,
malignant fibrotic histiocytoma.
Neuroectodermal
▪ benign - neurofibroma,
▪ malignant - neurofibrosarcoma, malignant melanoma, Merkel cell carcinoma.
The most common malignant neoplasms of the skin are epithelial carcinomas: basaliomas and
spinaliomas, as well as Merkel cell carcinomas and dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans.

Basal cell carcinoma (basocellular carcinoma) originates from basal cells of the epidermis and from the
terminal follicle, accounting for 75-80% of all skin cancers, 85% of which are located in the head and neck
area.
Clinically we distinguish superficial basalioma, nodular, scarring, sclerodermiform, ulcus rodens,
pigmentary, cystic and hyperkeratotic form. Metastasizes exceptionally, has locally destructive growth.

183

Spinalioma (squamous cell carcinoma) originates from keratinocytes. It develops intraepithelially and
gradually becomes a destructively growing tumor with a tendency to metastasize. Perineural spread is
also common. Spinalioma accounts for 20–25% of all skin cancers. It is located most often on the face on the nose, auricles, cheeks, the back of the hand, as well as the skin and mucous membranes - on the
lower lip, on the glans penis, vulva and anus, where the prognosis is much worse. Metastasizes to
regional lymph nodes and hematogenously mainly to the lungs.
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans is a rare low-grade sarcoma derived from fibroblasts. Very rarely
metastasizes. It's radiosensitive.
Merkel cell carcinoma is a rare disease derived from neuroectoderm tissue. It is characterized by
aggressive growth with the ability of rapid lymph nodal or distant generalization.

27.7 THERAPY
The high curability rate (up to 97%) of basocellular, squamous cell carcinoma and dermatofibrosarcoma
protuberans is due both to the low aggressive nature of growth and to their surface localization
facilitating early diagnosis. The aim of treatment is to achieve full local control, good cosmetic effect
while maintaining full quality of life. Worse results are seen in Merkel cell carcinoma, where multimodal
treatment is always required.
Surgery
▪ local wide excision with safety edge,
▪ in cases of lymph nodes involvement (assessed by ultrasound, CT, MRI) their extirpation with
histological verification needed.
Radiotherapy is indicated in cases when surgery is not suitable or when there are positive surgical
margins (except for Merkel's cancer - even in negative surgical margins, often irradiated together with
tumor-draining lymph nodes).
Can be used:
▪ teletherapy (X-ray, electrons, photons),
▪ brachytherapy (superficial, interstitial).
Superficial brachytherapy has very good results and is used for flat surface lesions preferably on flat
terrain. It is performed using so-called moulage (Fig. 1, 2), where a special carrier with catheters for the
radiation source is placed directly on the tumor. For irradiation Ir192 HDR source is most commonly used.
For tumors bigger than 1 mm, we have to choose another method of radiotherapy, either external or
interstitial brachytherapy, where the needles or plastic tubes for the radiation source are inserted
directly into the tumor (Figs. 3 and 4). The procedure should be performed under general or local
anesthesia or analgosedation. The daily dose and fractionation schedule depends on the size of the
tumor, its location, histology, age and general condition of the patient.
Both methods, surgery and radiotherapy provide similar treatment outcomes.

184

Fig 1 Surface Brachytherapy - Moulage

Fig 2 Applying moulage to the arm

Fig 3 Patient with lower lip tumor

185

Fig 4 Interstitial application in lip tumor

Radiotherapy is preferred in absence of loose skin, in large infiltrating and fixed tumors, in
contraindications of anesthesia, or as post-operative irradiation when there are positive margins of the
tissue excised (unless reexcision can be performed) and in lymph nodal involvement.
Example of radiotherapy and treatment effect:

1/2017 patient with a 20-year history of repeated resections of spinalioma and basalioma on
the face at the start of radiotherapy. In the places of foci - squamous cell and basocellular
carcinoma.

186

Surgery is preferred in young patients, when localization of the tumor is in the hairy part of the head, in
recurrence or persistence of the tumor after irradiation, in localization on the eyelids and when the
patient has already been irradiated and radiotherapy options are exhausted. The advantage of surgery is
a shorter time interval of this therapy.
Other treatment modalities are used more in palliative treatment, after exhaustion of surgery and
radiotherapy. Cryotherapy, laser, photodynamic therapy, local chemotherapy - fluorouracil ointment,
local ointment with imiquimod.
Another treatment option in palliative therapy is palliative chemotherapy in squamous cell cancer,
especially in the case of generalized disease. Anti-PD 1 and anti CTLA-4 immunotherapy agents are now
undergoing testing for this indication. It is believed that efficacy is similar to that of squamous cell
carcinomas at other sites.

In basaliomas without the possibility of local treatment or when generalization is present, it is possible to
use biological treatment - vismodegib (inhibitor of the SMO-Hedgehog pathway) with excellent results.
In dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans after failure of local treatment, it is possible to administer imatinib,
or palliative chemotherapy.
In Merkel cell carcinoma, systemic treatment by chemotherapy (platinum derivatives, etoposide) or
recently, there has been introduced possibility of administration of anti-PDL1 preparation avelumab.

27.8 POST-TREATMENT COMPLICATIONS
Depend on the treatment provided. In connection with radiotherapy, acute skin reactions in the form of
erythema, rash, dry desquamation, up to wet desquamation (lysis of epithelial cells), rarely also ulcus can
occur. Chronic radiation changes include telangiectasias, fibrosis, atrophy, alopecia and rarely radiation
ulcus. After surgery, scars occur, often with keloid transformation and with dehiscence, fibrosis of the
skin and hypodermis.

187

Complications of vismodegib treatment are usually mild and non-serious. Undesirable complications
of chemotherapy are identical to chemotherapy in other locations. Treatment with avelumab has a
similar toxicity profile to other antiPDL1 agents.

27.9 FOLLOW-UP
It is permanent in all malignant tumors, with the exception of small solid basaliomas removed radically
by surgery. The basis of follow-up is a clinical examination. At a certain interval, blood count and
biochemistry, rarely also tumor markers (SCC) measuring (if initially elevated) should be performed.
Other examinations include US of the lymph nodes, X-ray of the lungs and US of the liver, CT scan
examinations - especially in sarcomas. Visits every 3 months for two years are then gradually prolonging
the visits period to up to 1 year. When patient presents with complaints, the examination should be
focuses on the symptoms.

27.10 PROGNOSIS
Skin cancers of the basalioma type have a good prognosis because they practically never metastasize.
They endanger the patient by local progression and destruction of surrounding tissues. As with other
cancers, the patient's prognosis worsens with disease progression. Good illustration shows the table with
the probability of local control after radiotherapy .(Tab. 1)
Tab.1 Local control after radiotherapy
Tumor size
up to 1 cm
1 – 5 cm
more than 5 cm

Basalioma
97 %
87 %
87 %

188

Spinalioma
91 %
76 %
56 %

28 MALIGNANT MELANOMA
Jan Dvořák

28.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
Currently, malignant melanoma is considered a tumor with a fast growing incidence. Geographically, the
highest prevalence of malignant melanoma is among the Nordic Caucasian population living in countries
with high sunshine (Australia, New Zealand, South America). In 2016, the incidence of invasive
melanoma in the Czech Republic was 24.69 per 100 000 inhabitants. In men, the incidence is slightly
higher than in women. The incidence of malignant melanoma is shifting to younger age groups and its
incidence at prepubertal age is no exception.

28.2 ETIOLOGY
The cause of malignant transformation of melanocytes is unknown. It may be spontaneous, especially
when the tumor is present at rare anatomical locations. But, most skin melanomas and probably also
ocular forms of melanoma are caused by UV-induced changes in predisposed individuals. The greatest
risk is in the population with skin phototype I, II.
Excessive exposure to UV radiation, received in a short period of time (beware of sunburn with solar
dermatitis), is considered the most dangerous.
Genetic factors are also important in its pathogenesis. Several hereditary syndromes, such as familial
atypical multiple mole (FAMMM) dysplastic nevi syndrome, xeroderma pigmentosum, are also playing
roles in melanoma development. Approximately 5–10% of melanomas occur in families with genetic
predispositions.
Other predisposing factors are: presence of large congenital nevi, drug-induced immunosuppression,
or HIV disease.

28.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
Most patients present with complaints that the pigment nevus has become larger, it is bleeding,
discolored, itchy or flaky.
The ABCDE criteria are set to identify suspicious lesions:
Asymetrie – irregular asymmetric shape
Bordeline – border irregularity, crimped edges with projections and notches
Colour – irregular speckled discoloration
Diameter – diameter over 5 mm and continuous enlargement
Evolvement – tendency to melanoma development

28.4 DIAGNOSTICS
Primary skin melanoma is in most cases diagnosed clinically, visually, but long-term experience and
practice is required. Classical or computer dermatoscopy can also be used in differential diagnosis.
189

The clinical examination must include palpation of lymph nodes areas (groin, axilla, clavicle and
cervical lymph nodes), or ultrasound examination. Histological examination is required when complete
lesion removal (not biopsy) is required.
Staging examinations include X-ray of the lungs, ultrasound of the liver, CT of the chest, abdomen and
lesser pelvis. Based on the symptoms, examinations may also include bone (scintigraphy), brain (CT, MR),
FDG CT / PET, blood count and biochemistry testing.

28.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
It is necessary to exclude benign lesions such as verruca, fibroma, hemangiomas, onychomycoses as well
as other malignant skin tumors (spinaliomas, basaliomas).

28.6 PATHOLOGY
Malignant melanoma is a melanocyte-based neuroectodermal tumor. Theoretically it can arise in any
tissue. In the vast majority of cases it occurs on the skin, in the tissue of the eye and rarely on the
mucous membranes. The most common form is skin melanoma. Nowadays, it is essential to investigate
the presence of activation mutation BRAF 600 to decide on further treatment options.
From clinical and pathological point of view melanomas can be divided into several types:

Superficial spreading melanoma (SSM) - represents about 58% of all. It is the most common form with
the highest causal effect of UV radiation. Grows slowly, occurs most often on the trunk and limbs.
Nodular malignant melanoma (NMM) is present in about 21%. From the beginning it is a vertically
growing tumor with a high probability of metastases.
Lentigo maligna (LMM) represents about 9% of all melanomas. It is a slowly growing form, often located
on the face, and especially found in old age groups.
Acrolentiginous malignant melanoma (ALM) is a special form of melanoma that occurs on the distal
parts of the finger, usually subungally. It causes considerable diagnostic problems because it can be
mistaken for subungual hematoma or onychomycosis. It also occurs on the palms and soles of the lower
limbs.
Mucosal melanomas account for less than 1%. UV rays are not involved, the incidence is the same for all
races. They occur in the vagina, perianally, orally, in paranasal sinuses, etc. Usually they are diagnosed
late, which worsens their prognosis.
Eye melanomas are the most common intraocular tumors in adults. They may originate from various
intraocular structures, from choroid, cilia or iris.

28.7 EXTENT OF THE DISEASE
TNM classification version 8 was issued in 2017 and is currently used. It is relatively complex and
biochemical criteria such as LDH levels are also included in the stage assessment.

190

However, following criteria are still used when assessing tumor size by a pathologist: invasion depth
through histological skin layers (Clark I-V) and vertical tumor thickness in mm (Breslow).
Prognostic risk factor is the presence of ulceration, angioinvasion, lymphangioinvasion, high mitotic
activity and elevated LDH levels.

28.8 THERAPY
Surgery - early total excision with sufficient edges of healthy tissue is the only curative treatment
method. Currently, there exist a recommendation - excision with a 1 cm edge of healthy tissue for T1 and
T2 and a 2-3 cm edge for T3 and T4. The excision depth should be at least equal to the melanoma height
(up to the muscle fascia). If the tumor has not been excised “in toto”, insufficient safety margin was not
respected, or surgical incision has passed through the tumor, re-excision is recommended. Re-excision
should be performed within 4 weeks of the primary procedure. In case of metastatic involvement of
regional nodes, lymph nodes block dissection is indicated.
Sentinel node method is used to detect clinically undetectable metastases. It follows the assumption
that in lymphatic metastases, lymph nodes are drained via the lymph from the primary tumor site to a
tumor-draining nodes present in a relevant regional area and where metastases are most likely to be
detected. If this sentinel node is affected, exenteration of the relevant tumor-draining area is considered.
If not affected, the tumor has not yet metastasized and exenteration is not performed.
Adjuvant therapy: Immunotherapy with interferon alpha is used. It is used in clinical stage IIB - IIIC
according to AJCC classification 2011. However, its effectiveness is questionable, since it does not
improve OS (overall survival). Currently, promising data for adjuvant combined administration of BRAF /
MEK inhibitors dabrafenib / trametinib in patients with BRAF V 600 activation mutation or
immunotherapy with anti PD antibodies nivolumab or pembrolizumab in patients with BRAF negative
tumor are already available.
In cases of positive lymph nodes, adjuvant radiotherapy is indicated.
Palliative treatment is indicated for generalized or recurrent disease. Nowadays, new treatments
methods are prefered and chemotherapy use is declining.
Tumors with BRAF and V600 mutations can be treated with BRAF inhibitors: vemurafenib, dabrafenib,
optionally by combining the BRAF inhibitor with the MEK inhibitor dabrafenib / trametinib, or
vemurafenib / cobimetinib. In addition, patients with generalized malignant melanoma can be treated by
immunotherapy with ipilimumab (anti-CTLA-4 receptor antibody) or with anti PD antibodies:
nivolumab, pembrolizumab.
It is also possible to use radiotherapy, especially in lymph node involvement or when metastases are
present (to the bone, brain, etc.).
Intralesional treatment with Talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) is an interesting option for local
affections or recurrent lymph nodal disease.

191

28.9 POST-TREATMENT COMPLICATIONS
Depend on the type of treatment performed. After surgery, keloid scars and dehiscence may develop.
Acute skin reactions may occur after radiotherapy: erythema, rash, edema, lysis of epithel, or chronic
changes such as: fibrosis, telangiectasias, lymphedema. Immunotherapy is associated with high
temperature, flu-like symptoms, mucosal toxicity (colitis, enteritis) and other immunological problems.
Significant photoprotection is required when using BRAF inhibitors.

28.10 FOLLOW-UP
It is permanent and includes clinical and physical examination of scars, regional lymph nodes, lung X-ray,
liver ultrasonography. Further examinations are indicated based on the patient's symptomatology. Visits
are regular - once every 3 months, after 2 years then twice a year.

28.11 PROGNOSIS
It depends on the time of diagnosis and the size of the tumor. When the tumor is removed in the radial
spread phase, metastatic process is practically prevented and these patients are cured by simple
excision. The vast majority of cases can be detected through education and prevention, and most skin
melanoma deaths are completely unnecessary.
For isolated primary malignant melanoma, is a number of prognostic factors: age, associated internal
diseases, Clark's stage (skin invasion level), vertical tumor thickness (histopathological measurement of
maximum tumor thickness in mm- Breslow's stage), ulceration, angioinvasion, lymphangioinvasion, and
mitotic activity.

28.12 PREVENTION
It is related to population education - information about harmful effects of UV radiation and necessity to
use creams with high UV protective factors, especially for phototypes I and II. The so-called tertiary
prevention is also important, ie permanent follow-up of patients who have already been treated for
melanoma in order to prevent or detect progression of the disease on time.

192

29 SARCOMAS
Marián Liberko

29.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
Soft tissue sarcomas form a heterogeneous group with more than 80 histological types. Most sarcomas
are based on soft tissues 75%, gastrointestinal stromal tumors account for 15% and bone sarcomas 10%.
The most common are liposarcomas and leiomyosarcomas. Overall, these are rare cancers, which
account for less than 1% of malignant tumors in adults, but are very common in children and account for
about 10% of all pediatric malignancies - ranking third after haematological malignancies and CNS
tumors. Predilection area are limbs - almost 50%, most often in the thigh area. Sarcomas occur on the
trunk and retroperitoneum in 40% of cases and in the head and neck area in 10%. Sarcomas metastasize
predominantly hematogenously to the lungs; lymphogenic metastasis is rarer. Synchronous metastases
occur in 20–25% of patients.

29.2 ETIOLOGY
Sarcomas are tumors of mesenchymal origin. The cause of malignant transformation of mesenchymal
cells is unknown. Congenital genetic abnormalities or deletions of key genes such as p53 in Li-Fraumeni
syndrome may be involved in pathogenesis. Many sarcomas exhibit specific chromosomal
rearrangements and mutations that are detectable by molecular-biological methods and allow for
further subcategorization of sarcomas. Another risk factor is ionizing radiation. Therapeutic irradiation
can lead to secondary malignancies of both bone sarcomas and soft tissue sarcomas.

29.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
Symptoms of the disease are influenced by the location and size of the tumor. When tumor is localized
on limbs, there is palpable resistance. Other manifestations are pain, especially nocturnal in bone
sarcomas, limitation of limb movement or pathological fracture in bone involvement. In tumors on the
trunk and retroperitoneum, symptoms are often minimal or nonspecific. With slow growth, the
surrounding tissues and organs have long adapted to expansion. Thus, even large tumors can be an
accidental findings during examinations for other diseases. The most commonly reported symptoms are
pressure, abdominal pain, abdominal tension, emptying disorders, back pain and weight loss. In
gastrointestinal stromal tumors, the first manifestation may be blood in stool, hematemesis, abdominal
pain or acute abdomen.

29.4 DIAGNOSTICS
Numerous examinations are used in the diagnosis of soft tissue sarcomas. Ultrasound examination can
be considered to be a basic diagnostic method, which can already lead to a suspicion of a tumor. CT scan,
or better yet, MRI, provides better information on the extent of the disease and the relationship of
tumor site and surrounding structures. Histological examination provides additional information
necessary for the choice of treatment. Further distinction of individual subtypes is possible by means of
immunohistochemical examination and molecular biology methods. If malignancy is confirmed, staging
193

examinations are indicated to determine the extent of the disease and to select the optimal treatment
procedure - skeletal scintigraphy or PET / CT. However, there is no specific marker for sarcomas that
would allow monitoring of response to treatment and possible relapse of the disease after treatment is
over.

29.5 THERAPY
The treatment of sarcomas, as well as other malignancies, takes place via multidisciplinary teams. All
oncological treatment modalities (surgery, radiotherapy, brachytherapy, chemotherapy, biological
therapy, hormonal therapy and hyperthermia) may be used, depending on histology, extent of the
disease (staging) and patient's condition.

Surgical procedure
The quality of the operation is crucial for the patient's further fate. The goal is to achieve R0 resection,
i.e. with histologically negative edges. There are three basic types of resection: marginal excision, broad
local excision and radical resection.
In marginal excision, the tumor is removed only with its pseudocapsule at high risk of leaving a
subclinical microscopic residue. Resection margins are smaller than 1 cm. The risk of local recurrence in
this case is 80%. In the case of re-resection, a residual tumor was described in 50% of cases.
In broad local excision, the tumor is removed with more than 1 cm border of healthy tissue within one
muscle compartment. The risk of local recurrence varies between 30% and 60%. This method of excision
can provide effective local control of superficial limb tumors.
Radical resection removes the tumor with the entire muscle compartment in one block up to the
insertions and in the fascial boundaries. The risk of local recurrence is described as 10–20%. Often, the
neurovascular bundles and affected part of the bone must also be removed. Replacement of nerve and
bone grafts is a part of this resection. Large defects can be replaced by stalk lobes or loose tissue
transplants. A conservative, limb-saving approach is always preferred. Amputation is acceptable only in
the case of irreversible damage to the limb and neurovascular bundles by the tumor, which, despite the
performance of the limb sparing performance, would result in no limb function. Contrast clips should be
placed in the tumor site area for radiotherapy planning purposes.
Surgery in addition to resection of the primary tumor is also indicated in the context of
metastasectomy of lung metastases - the oligometastatic disease; either alone or in combination with
non-adjuvant or adjuvant systemic treatment. Combination therapy extends the symptom-free period
and overall survival. There is less evidence for liver metastectomy.

External radiotherapy
It is applied in the form of preoperative, intraoperative or postoperative, alone or in combination with
systemic treatment. Sarcomas are among the more radioresistant diseases requiring application of high
doses of radiation, which is often limited by the presence of risk organs near the irradiated volume.
Pre-operative radiotherapy is an option with the aim of reducing the size of the primary tumor,
improving operability and “sterilizing edges”. The advantage of preoperative radiotherapy is lower

194

overall dose (45–50 Gy) and also the presence of the tumor itself, which to a certain extent pushes
neighboring radiosensitive structures further away. After surgery, radiotherapy is indicated for deepseated tumor in biologically younger patients, R1 resection, marginal resection, high grade tumor and
tumor size above 5 cm. Doses administered postoperatively are higher (60-65 Gy) and the irradiated
volume is larger, because of postoperative changes and scars.
Brachytherapy
Brachytherapy is another option used in the treatment of sarcomas. It can be administered alone or in
combination with external radiotherapy to increase dose delivered to the tumor site, or to treat
recurrent tumors in an already irradiated volume. Treatment with interstitial brachytherapy may be
initiated in a relatively short period of time after surgery, as opposed to external radiotherapy, which
may be initiated only after the resection wound has healed, meaning in 3-4 weeks. The principle is based
on the introduction of plastic catheters into the tumor bed during surgery and subsequent postoperative
irradiation of the bed in the form of interstitial brachytherapy using the afterloading technique.
Intraoperative radiotherapy
Intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT) allows single-dose irradiation of the target volume with a high dose
while leaving critical healthy tissues intact as much as possible. Pre- or post-operatively, the dose may be
supplemented by external irradiation. Dose escalation increases the possibility of local control. Mobile Xray irradiators or a linear accelerators (mobile linear accelerators are used or patient is transported to
the irradiation facility) are used to perform the IORT. The disadvantage is the necessity of single
application and difficult determination of radiation dose. IORT is mainly used in retroperitoneal
sarcomas.

Chemotherapy
Sarcomas are generally classified as chemoresistant tumors. Chemotherapy can be indicated in adjuvant,
non-adjuvant and palliative administration. The most effective cytostatics are anthracyclines
(doxorubicin, epirubicin), ifosfamide, with less response dacarbazine, gemcitabine and taxanes.
Possibility of administration is monotherapy or combination.
Adjuvant chemotherapy
The aim is to improve local control and extend the time to disease relapse. In adjuvant administration,
chemotherapy may be considered for high-grade tumors greater than 5 cm in depth, in younger patients
and in chemosensitive histological types (liposarcoma, synovial sarcoma and partially leiomyosarcoma).
Clear-cell sarcoma and alveolar sarcoma are considered chemoresistant.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy
It can facilitate tumor operability, allow for conservative solutions without mutilating consequences and
reduce the risk of dissemination. At the same time it may identify patients who could benefit from
adjuvant therapy, based on the tumor response. The percentage of tumor necrosis found after
neoadjuvant treatment is considered to be an independent predictive factor in soft tissue sarcomas.
Palliative chemotherapy
Used for metastatic diseases, which are most often the lungs. Prognosis of generalized sarcomas is poor.
The aim is to slow progression of the disease and alleviate the symptomatology of metastatic spread.

195

Most commonly, doxorubicin or ifosfamide are used as monotherapy. Combined regimens lead to
prolonged asymptomatic period but do not prolong overall survival.

Biological treatment
A tyrosine kinase inhibitor, pazopanib, is available for the treatment of selected subtypes of soft tissue
sarcomas (except liposarcoma). It is indicated in the 2nd line of metastatic disease with improved
symptom-free period and overall survival against chemotherapy. A novelty is monoclonal antibody: antiPDGFR alpha - olaratumab.

29.6 OTHER TYPES OF SARCOMAS
Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) – the most common type of sarcoma with a significantly better
prognosis compared to soft tissue and bone sarcomas. Its typical attribute is expression of the CD 117
marker. The most common sites are the stomach, duodenum, jejunum, ileum, colon and rectum. Basic
treatment is surgical resection with the aim of R0 resection. Possible adjuvant therapy is indicated
according to the presence of risk factors in the histological preparation. In case of metastatic disease,
palliative treatment is indicated. GISTs are completely chemoresistant tumors. In their treatment, both
adjuvant and palliative, targeted treatment with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor – imatinib – is used.
Bone tumors – very rare in adulthood. High grade osteosarcomas and chondrosarcomas; in these cases,
multimodal treatment of a chemotherapy, surgery and radiotherapy is utilized. A specific type is Ewing's
sarcoma, which is most common during puberty; however, it can be encountered later in life. It is a bone
tumor with a pronounced extraoseal component and early hematogenous dissemination to the lungs
and bone marrow. Treatment is multimodal according to international protocols and combines induction
chemotherapy, surgery, radiotherapy and consolidation chemotherapy.

29.7 POST-TREATMENT COMPLICATIONS
Acute side effects are most often wet desquamation of the skin in irradiated fields. Late adverse effects
of radiation after conservative surgery may significantly affect function of the preserved limb. These
include limiting the extent of movement due to fibrosis, muscle and joint contractures, edema, chronic
pain and bone fractures. Long-term rehabilitation is required after the end of treatment. Risk of
developing secondary malignancies is particularly high in children treated for soft tissue sarcomas with
expected long-term survival. The most common secondary malignancies include osteosarcomas, brain
tumors and leukemia.

29.8 FOLLOW-UP
The aim of post-treatment follow-up is to detect any recurrence of the disease in time to the extent that
subsequent intervention may have a curable effect. A follow-up examination should take place every 3
months for at least 3 years. Regular monitoring of the primary focus site using imaging methods is
necessary to detect very frequent locoregional recurrence. Part of the follow-up is also examination to
assess the presence of metastases. The risk is highest for the first 2–3 years after treatment of the
primary tumor.

196

29.9 PROGNOSIS
Five-year overall survival is 50–60%. The main prognostic factors are tumor size, placement depth in
relation to superficial fascia, presence of metastases in distant organs, degree of differentiation and
radicality of surgery. Adverse factors include higher age and poor general condition of the patient.
Response to preoperative treatment in advanced forms and the duration of asymptomatic period for
relapse are also of prognostic importance. Even after radical tumor removal, distant metastases occur in
50% of cases within 5 years. In primary inoperable and metastatic forms, only 10–30% of patients
experience a response to combination therapy, resulting in a low 5-year survival rate of 8%.

197

30 MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE CERVIX
Martina Kubecová, Klaudia Regináčová

30.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
There are large regional differences in the incidence of this tumor. It is highest in South America, the
lowest in Israel, Finland, Luxembourg and Ireland (less than 5 per 100,000 women). In the Czech
Republic, 15 new cases / 100,000 women were recorded in 2016. We are even able to recognize large
differences within the country. The mortality rate for this cancer is low, in the Czech Republic in 2016 it
was calculated to be 6.9 / 100,000 women. The problem is the diagnosis of early stages. In the Czech
Republic, only 50% of cases were diagnosed in stages I and II, while in other EU countries the number is
around 75%. The highest incidence is seen in women between the ages of 40 and 49. Screening for
cervical cancer is extremely important for diagnosis of early stages. As of 2008, cervical cancer screening
has been occurring in the Czech Republic, offered to women during gynecological examinations, the
process includes cytological collection once a year, aimed at detecting precancerous lesions and early
stages of the tumor.

30.2 ETIOLOGY
The role of human papillomaviruses (HPV), particularly HPV 16 and 18, in the development of cervical
cancer has been confirmed. Factors contributing to the transmission of these viruses include promiscuity,
early commencement of sexual life and poor personal hygiene. Smoking also plays an important role.
Vaccination plays an important role in preventing HPV-associated tumors and is recommended in girls
between 13-14, around 1 year before commencement of sexual activities.

30.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
The most common symptoms which cause a woman to come to the doctor include vaginal bleeding,
especially after intercourse, and discharge. Abdominal and sacral pain with weight loss occurs in more
advanced stages. Uremia caused by blockage of ureters by the pelvic tumor is a symptom of very
advanced tumors.

30.4 DIAGNOSTICS
The basis of proper diagnosis is a gynecological examination (vaginal and rectal) and collection of
cytology. Histological verification by biopsy or endocervical curettage is required. Basic staging
examinations include lung X-ray, ultrasound examination of kidneys and lower pelvis, vaginal ultrasound
and pelvic magnetic resonance imaging. CT examination of abdomen/pelvis and PET, and sometimes.
cystoscopy or rectoscopy are indicated in more advanced tumors. Magnetic resonance imaging is
extremely important in the early stages when there is uncertainty as to whether the tumor is confined to
only the cervix or invading the parameteria. In squamous cell carcinoma, a tumor marker SCC is also
examined for.

198

30.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
It is necessary to distinguish the possible infiltration of another malignant tumor (uterine carcinoma or
rectal carcinoma) into the cervix.

30.6 PATHOLOGY
In the beginning, there are changes in the cervical epithelium, such as dysplasia, which we call CIN
(cervical intraepithelial neoplasia). We distinguish 3 levels: CIN I - mild, CIN II - moderate, CIN III - severe.
Cancer can develop directly (without dysplasia), and dysplasia does not have to turn into cancer. The
term carcinoma in situ refers to a stage where the malignant tumor has not yet broken through the basal
membrane.
Invasive carcinoma is histologically 90% squamous cell, 9% adenocarcinoma and 1% other subtypes of
malignant tumors (undifferentiated carcinoma, sarcoma, neuroendocrine carcinoma, etc.). The tumor
may have a different degree of differentiation, which is designated by so-called tumor grading (G1 - well
differentiated, G2 - moderately differentiated, G3 - slightly differentiated, undifferentiated).
Prognostically worse tumors are less differentiated.
The tumor may grow on the surface of the cervix (exophytic) or within the cervix (endophytic).
Endophytic growth usually allows for the disease to be detected at a more advanced stage because it is
asymptomatic for longer periods of time.

30.7 THERAPY
Depends on the stage of the disease.
Stage I - the tumor is limited to the uterine cervix.
Stage I tumors may be microscopic (referred to as Ia1 and Ia2), but also very bulky, for example in excess
of 4 cm in length (labeled Ib3 according to the new classification as of 2018). Surgical treatment is the
treatment method of choice. Microscopic tumors can be resolved by conization (excision of the cervix
while saving the body of the uterus), which allows for possible subsequent pregnancies. In older women
and larger stage I tumors, a hysterectomy is performed with resection of borders, with removal of
uterine vessels, bilateral adnexectomy and lymphadenectomy. Postoperative irradiation is sometimes
necessary.
Stage II - the tumor spreads from the cervix to the parametria: IIb (not up to the pelvic wall) or to the
upper third of the vagina - IIa.
Surgical treatment can only be used in stage IIa if the tumor affects only the upper third of the vagina
and when the upper third of the vagina is also resected in addition to the cervix. For other tumors,
radiotherapy (RT) enhanced by chemotherapy is indicated.
Stage III - the tumor spreads from the cervix to the pelvic wall or into the lower two-thirds of the vagina,
or causes hydronephrosis (blockage of the ureter and preventing urine outflow from the kidney). The
method of treatment choice is radiotherapy potentiated by chemotherapy.

199

Stage Iva - the tumor grows into the bladder or rectum. The method of treatment choice is radiotherapy,
often only palliative.
Stage IVb - the tumor produces distant metastasis. The treatment is most often only palliative.
In the early stages of disease, the results of radiotherapy and surgery are the same, however
radiotherapy has more complications.
Radiotherapy is always used in combination, for example as external radiotherapy and brachytherapy.
We irradiate the area of the lower pelvis, which includes the uterus with the tumor, as well as the lymph
nodes (nodes of the pelvis). Irradiation is performed in linear accelerators utilizing high energy braking
radiation, and using the multiple field technique (most often called IMRT), where we try to salvage as
much healthy tissue as possible (Fig. 1). The dose of radiation to a lower pelvis does not usually exceed
45 Gy applied over 5 weeks, irradiating daily in small doses (1.8–2 Gy).

Figure 1 Irradiation of the lower pelvis using IMRT technique
Brachytherapy (BT) is irreplaceable in the radical treatment of cervical cancer because it allows us to
apply a high dose of radiation (up to 85-90 Gy) directly into the tumor without damaging the surrounding
healthy tissues. BT applicators are inserted directly into the vagina, cervix and uterine body, known as
uterovaginal BT (intracavitary). We use Ir 192 (gamma emitter) with high dose rate (HDR) as a radiation
source. If BT cannot be performed for any reason, the chances of tumor curability are significantly
reduced. Postoperative irradiation involves vaginal (intracavitary) BT, where the applicator is inserted
into the vagina, which ends as blind scar.
Chemotherapy is a complementary method used in cervical cancer. It is used as
▪ Concomitant, ie potentiation of RT, most often cisplatin once a week,
▪ Neo-adjuvant: preoperative, for large so-called bulky tumor Ib2 (tumor > 4 cm) or IIa, when
ifosphamide and cisplatin are most commonly administered - 3 series at an interval of 10 days
followed by surgery. The goal is to reduce the tumor and improve operability.
200

▪ Palliative: in recurrent and metastatic tumors, most commonly cisplatin and paclitaxel, ifosfamide.
Biological therapy is used in cervical cancer in combination with chemotherapy for metastatic disease.
The preparation avastin (bevacizumab) - VEGF inhibitor (vascular endothelial growth factor), acting on
newly formed vasculature, is used.

30.8 POST TREATMENT COMPLICATIONS
Critical organs for radiotherapy are loops of the small intestine, rectum and bladder.
Acute complications may be seen after irradiation, occurring a few weeks after stopping RT.
▪ GIT: diarrhea, flatulence, bleeding (rarely),
▪ urological tract: dysuria, polakisuria, hematuria (rarely),
▪ skin, mucosa: erythema, exanthema, edema, epitheliolysis.
Delayed complications may be seen 6 or more months after stopping RT, and are usually incurable:
▪ GIT: enteritis, proctocolitis, proctitis, bleeding, intestinal stenosis, ulceration, fistula (rectovaginal),
▪ urological tract: stenosis of the ureters and urethra, cystitis, incontinence, hydronephrosis,
ulceration, fistula (cystovaginal),
▪ skin and mucosa: dryness, hyperpigmentation, depilation, telangiectasia, fibrosis, necrosis,
stenosis of vagina or even blockage

30.9 FOLLOW UP
Regular and lifelong; 1st and 2nd year, follow up is performed every 3 months, 3rd to 5th year every 6
months, then once a year. We always perform a gynecological examination, and in certain intervals renal
ultrasound, blood count and biochemistry, ultrasound of lower pelvis, X-ray of lungs, SCC (Tumor marker
specific for squamous cell carcinoma), and eventually CT or MRI

30.10 PROGNOSIS
The main prognostic features include the size of the tumor itself and lymph node involvement. Prognosis
is worsened by: high grading, histological type - adenocarcinoma, endophytic growth, secondary anemia,
worse general state of the patient, etc.
5- Year survival: St. I – 90 %, St. II - 60 – 75 %, St. III - 25 – 48 %, St. IV - 5 - 10%.

201

31 MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE UTERUS
Martina Kubecová, Klaudia Regináčová

31.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
It is the most common gynecological tumor and the second most common tumor in women (after breast
cancer, not including skin tumors). The incidence is particularly high in developed countries, estimated to
be around 20–35 new cases per 100,000 women. In the Czech Republic, the incidence was 36/100 000
women in 2016, while mortality was comparatively low, 8/100 000. Most patients are postmenopausal
(75%).

31.2 ETIOLOGY
Risk factors for endometrial cancer include obesity, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, family history,
infertility, nulliparity, Stein-Leventhal syndrome, estrogen exposure, and high animal fat intake.

31.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
The most common symptom is vaginal bleeding during menopause. Bleeding may be caused by
endometrial cancer in 1/3rd of the cases, myoma in the next 1/3rd and unknown cause in final 1/3rd (it
is probably a hormonal imbalance). Other symptoms such as abdominal pain, back pain, disorders of
urinations and weight loss are signs of advanced disease.

31.4 DIAGNOSTICS
The basis of proper diagnosis is a gynecological examination (vaginal and rectal). Histological verification
by endocervical curettage or hysteroscopy is required. Basic staging examinations include X-ray of the
lungs and ultrasound examination of the kidneys and lower pelvis. Special importance is given to vaginal
ultrasound examination, which shows us not only the size of the uterus and its relationship to the
surrounding structures, but also the height and homogeneity of the endometrium, and depth of tumor
penetration into the uterine wall, etc. Additional examinations include CT scan of the abdomen and
lower pelvis, magnetic resonance imaging, and PET, etc.

31.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
It is necessary to distinguish the infiltration of another tumor in the uterus, such as cervical cancer,
bladder cancer or rectal cancer.

31.6 PATHOLOGY
90% of these are adenocarcinomas (endometrioid, clear-cell, serous papillary, etc.), and 2-4% are
sarcomas (leiomyosarcoma, endometrial stromal sarcoma, etc.), which are prognostically unfavorable. In

202

addition, adenoacanthomas may arise from squamous metaplasia. Tumor differentiation is based on
grading (G1, G2, G3), and is of great importance in the prognosis of the disease.

31.7 THERAPY
Therapy depends on the stage of the disease. The method of treatment choice is surgical intervention in
stages I - III. The extent of the procedure depends on the extent of involvement (depth of tumor growth
in the uterine body), tumor differentiation and lymph node involvement. Most often hysterectomy with
bilateral adnexectomy is performed. Lymphadenectomy is indicated in more advanced and less
differentiated tumors. Omentectomy is indicated in serous papillary carcinoma. We must not forget that
the lymph nodes of the uterus not only drain into the lower pelvic nodes but also paraaortic lymph
nodes.
Depending on the extent of the surgical findings, postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy (RT) is
indicated in some cases.
Post-operative RT can be combined, ie tele-therapy and brachytherapy (BT), or independent vaginal
BT can be used, which is administered by insertion of the applicator for BT into the vagina and
subsequent irradiation of the upper third to half the vagina. (Fig. 1)
Figure 1 Adjuvant brachy radiotherapy in Uterine cancer

a) applicator for vaginal HDR brachy
radiotherapy - linear emittor
b) image of the applicator with source
mockup, with rectal marker and
contrast filled bladder

A

B

c) isodose plan

C

For external irradiation, high-energy X radiation of linear accelerators is used. Irradiated areas include
drainage lymph nodes, the dose does not exceed 45 Gy for 5 weeks, multi-field technique (most
commonly called IMRT) is used.
Independent Radiotherapy is indicated in the case of advanced disease, or if the patient is
contraindicated for surgery due to internal medicine criteria. In advanced diseases, we use combination
therapy: teletherapy and brachy radiotherapy (uterovaginal). In early stages, endometrial cancer can be
cured by independent uterovaginal brachytherapy. There are several possible techniques that may be
used. The most successful way in irradiating the uterus by the so-called Heyman tamponade (Figure 2),
when the uterus is filled (under general anesthesia or analgosedation) with the brachytherapy
applicators. The disadvantage is that we require high-quality X-ray imaging of the application, which is
nearly impossible in obese women, who also happen to be most likely to suffer from endometrial cancer.
Therefore, the most commonly used method is the Y probe (Figure 3), where the brachytherapy
applicator is inserted into each of the corners of the uterus and joined into a Y-shape in the cervix. This
203

application also gives a very good dose distribution. The simplest method is utilization of a linear emitter
(Figure 4a) where a simple applicator (probe) is inserted into the uterus. This method can be used for
radical brachytherapy in the case of a small uterus or as a palliative method.
Figure 2 Brachy Radiotherapy used in inoperable uterine cancer
a) applicator for HDR brachy radiotherapy –
Heyman’s tamponade
b) image of the applicator with source
mockup, with rectal marker and contrast
filled bladder,

A

B

c) isodose plan

C

Figure 3 Brachy Radiotherapy used in inoperable uterine cancer
a) applicator for HDR brachy radiotherapy – Y
probe,
b) image of applicator with source implants,
rectal marker and urinary bladder filling with
contrast,

A

B

c) isodose plan

C

Figure 4 Brachy Radiotherapy used in inoperable uterine cancer
a) applicator for HDR brachy
radiotherapy,
b) image of the applicator with source
mockup, with rectal marker and
contrast filled bladder,
c) isodose plan.

A

B

C

Chemotherapy is used only in very advanced tumors, in younger patients, in massive lymph node
involvement and especially in serous papillary carcinoma. The combination of carboplatin and paclitaxel
is most commonly used.

204

Hormonal therapy is particularly important as a palliative method. Up to 33% of patients respond to
hormonal therapy with gestagens at the time of metastatic spread. In particular, pulmonary metastases
of mature endometrial cancer respond very well to this type of therapy and often with a long-term
effect.

31.8 POST-TREATMENT COMPLICATIONS
Are identical to those found in cervical cancer.

31.9 FOLLOW UP
Regular, lifelong; 1st and 2nd year checkups every 3 months, 3rd to 5th year every 6 months, then once a
year. We always perform gynecological examination, at a certain intervals also renal ultrasound,
biochemistry panel, ultrasound of lesser pelvis, vaginal ultrasound, lung X-ray, Ca 125 level measuring
(marker often indicating disease progression).

31.10 PROGNOSIS
Significant prognostic factors include the depth of uterine wall penetration, grading and lymph node
involvement. Five-year survival varies greatly in stage I. In stage Ia, when the tumor affects only the
endometrium or extends superficially into the myometrium and is well differentiated (G1), survival rates
reach 98%. Survival decreases to 87-90% if the tumor is moderately differentiated or grows to serosa. 3
grade further reduces survival to 70-78%. In stage II, when the tumor grows into the cervix, the five-year
survival rate is 65%. In pT3, when the tumor grows outside of the uterus, the survival rate is 15–30% and
only 5% when it infiltrates into the rectum or bladder. 5-year survival of patients treated with
independent radiotherapy stages I/ II reaches 74-78%.

205

32 OVARIAN CANCER
Martina Kubecová, Klaudia Regináčová

32.1 EPIDEMIOLOGY
It is the second most common malignant gynecological cancer, incidence in 2016 reached 18 new cases
per 100,000 women in the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, the disease has a very high mortality rate,
almost 12/100 000 women. The highest incidence is in western countries, the lowest in Japan. Most
often occurs in the 6th decade.

32.2 ETIOLOGY
Its etiology is not known, but ovarian cancer is more common in women who have not given birth and in
women with fewer pregnancies. It is often associated with breast cancer and in 5–10% genetic-familial
factors are involved. Genetic predisposition is proved mainly in high grade serous ovarian carcinoma
(BRCA mutation I or II), therefore a large part of the patients with confirmed diagnosis of ovarian cancer
is send for a genetic examination.

32.3 SYMPTOMATOLOGY
Early stages are completely asymptomatic. In up to 70% of cases, the tumor is only symptomatic in very
advanced stages (IIIc). Symptoms occur due to the compression of abdominal organs by the tumor and
by a growing ascites. However, the main presentations are digestive problems, nausea, vomiting,
passage disorders, abdominal enlargement, pain, weight loss, etc.

32.4 DIAGNOSTICS
Diagnostic process is very difficult due to the anatomical location of ovaries inside the abdominal cavity.
Early stages can be diagnosed by ultrasound examination. Other basic examinations include
gynecological examination (vaginal and rectal), vaginal ultrasound examination, CT-scan of the abdomen
and lesser pelvis and measurement of levels of tumor markers, especially Ca 125. This marker is elevated
in 95% of malignant ovarian epithelial tumors. In mucinous carcinoma, Ca 19-9 is elevated, in granulosa
cell tumors, beta-HCG and alpha-fetoprotein levels rise. Other staging examinations include lung X-ray.
Laparotomy with subsequent histological verification is a diagnostic but also a therapeutic process.

32.5 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSTICS
It is necessary to distinguish benign tumors and ovarian cysts, endometriosis and in advanced tumor
exclude its origin from the gastrointestinal tract. In breast cancer, metastatic spread to ovaries should be
considered.

206

32.6 PATHOLOGY
90% epithelial tumors (coelomic epithelium):
▪ Serous,
▪ Mucinous,
▪ Endometrioid,
▪ From clear cells (mesonephroid),
▪ Brenner's tumor,
▪ Mixed epithelial,
▪ Undifferentiated.
10% other:
▪ Dysgerminomas,
▪ Granulosa cell tumors
▪ Teratomas,
▪ Embryonic carcinomas,
▪ Choriocarcinomas and others
Histogenetic classification by tumor origin:
▪
▪
▪
▪

From coelomic epithelium: epithelial, undifferentiated, carcinosarcomas,
From germ cells: teratomas, germinomas, embryonic carcinomas, choriocarcinomas,
From gonadal stromal cells: from granulosa cells,
From non-specific mesenchymal cells: lipomas, fibromas, leiomyomas, angiomas, lymphomas,
sarcomas.

32.7 THERAPY
The method of choice is surgery. Only rarely in very advanced diseases with wide metastatic spread such
as to the liver or CNS and in patients in very poor general condition it is possible not to perform
laparotomy and diagnose the disease by biopsy, extremely rarely cytologically from ascites. In these
patients palliative (most commonly chemotherapy) or symptomatic treatment is initiated. In a small
percentage of patients with such an advanced tumor, response to chemotherapy is a significant
regression of the disease. In these cases, chemotherapy can be considered a neoadjuvant treatment and
radical laparotomy is indicated.
Basic surgical procedure include lavage of the abdominal cavity, when present, evacuation of ascites,
hysterectomy, bilateral adnexectomy, uterine tube removal, omentectomy, commonly appendectomy,
and in some cases also lymphadenectomy (pelvic, paraaortic lymph nodes). The effort is always zero
macroscopic residual disease, which doubles overall survival and is the most important for disease
prognosis.
Debulking surgery (surgery reducing tumor mass - cytoreductive) is also of the great importance
because subsequent treatment is then often more effective. In primary inoperable tumors, where only
explorative laparotomy with histology is performed, successful systemic chemotherapy is followed by socalled interval debulking surgery - an operation that in the second phase removes the remaining tumor
including ovaries, uterus, omentum, etc.

207

Chemotherapy (CHT) is a systemic treatment method based on platinum derivatives and taxanes. The
combination of carboplatin and paclitaxel is most commonly used. It is given as one day infusions at
regular three-week intervals. It can be administered as adjuvant (postoperative), neoadjuvant
(preoperative) or palliative method. Other cytostatics may be used but are less effective. Cytostatics can
also be applied directly to the abdominal cavity.
Radiotherapy (RT) is only used in individual cases. Whole abdomen radiotherapy (WART technique) is
indicated, when the treatment is limited by a radiation dose - maximum of 30 Gy with covering the liver
and kidneys. RT is indicated, especially in cases of microscopic disease, in tumors smaller than 2 cm and
more commonly in mature tumors (G1).
Palliatively we can irradiate, for example, tumor recurrence in the lesser pelvis, paraaortic lymph nodes
and other metastases.
Hormonal therapy is hardly used, although 50% of the tumors are positive for estrogen and
progesterone receptors. The effect of hormone therapy is small, maximum 5–15%, it is used only as a
palliative treatment (tamoxifen - antiestrogen, aromatase inhibitors, Megace - Medroxyprogesterone
acetate - gestagen - it only has a supporting effect).

Targeted treatment has become increasingly important in recent years. Treatment with bevacizumab
increases time to relapse, but unfortunately has no impact on overall survival. In BRCA positive patients,
the addition of PARP inhibitors (olaparib) to treatment of relapsing disease significantly prolongs overall
survival. PARP inhibitors interfere with cellular repair processes and interfere with the DNA strand breaks
repair process.

32.8 POST-TREATMENT COMPLICATIONS
Perioperative and postoperative complications consist of bleeding, intestinal perforation, complicated
and prolonged healing, postoperative adhesions with intestinal passage disorders, etc. CHT has typical
side effects - nausea, vomiting, alopecia, haematological toxicity up to febrile neutropenia, neurotoxicity,
etc., RT of the whole abdomen can also be accompanied by nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, severe anorexia
and passage disorders. Chronic complications also occur - especially passage disorders due to a bowel
stenosis.

32.9 FOLLOW-UP
Is regular and lifelong - 1st and 2nd year visits every 3 months, 3rd to 5th year every 6 months onwards
once a year. Gynecological examination, blood sampling for Ca 125 levels should always be performed, at
certain intervals then also abdominal CT scan, ultrasound, biochemistry testing, X-ray of the lungs, or
metabolic PET / CT.

208

32.10 PROGNOSIS
Prognostic factors include: extent of disease, tumor residue after surgery, tumor grading, histological
subtype, patient's age.
There are three prognosis groups:
1. stage I, II, tumor completely radically removed, eventually with a microscopic residue,
2. stage I, II, minimal tumor residue (less than 2 cm),
3. bulky tumor, st. III, IV.
Five-year survival rate: within prognosis groups there are major differences in survival. For example in
stage I, stage Ia (tumor within one ovary) having a survival rate of 90%, Ib (tumor inside both ovaries) of
only 65% and Ic (tumor on the surface of the ovary, tumor ruptured or ascites present) only 57%. For
stage II survival is 45% and for stage III, which is very advanced, 5-year survival is reported to be
relatively high, up to 20-40%, in stage IV where distant metastases are present (eg liver, lung, bone, CNS)
etc.) then only 5%.

209

