What Is
is Malignancy
Malignancy??

1

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Prevalence of cancer
› Benign and malignant tumours
› Dangers of malignant tumours
› What causes malignancy

A malignant growth is characterised by a continuing, purposeless, unwanted,
uncontrolled and damaging growth of cells that differ structurally and functionally from the normal cells from which they developed.
The commonly used term for a malignant growth is a cancer – cancer is Latin
for crab. The condition was called cancer in ancient times because an advanced
cancer was thought to resemble a crab, with “claws” reaching out into surrounding
tissues.
All living plants and animals are composed of living cells that often need to
divide to produce more cells for growth and development, and also to replace
cells that have been damaged or have died. The process of cell proliferation (cell
division and cell growth) is controlled by genes in the DNA of the cell nucleus.
The genes are inherited from parents and bestow particular features in the offspring, including height, colour, weight and countless other distinctive features
and functions of the tissues. The process is normally under remarkably wellbalanced control. A cancer forms when this genetic control is damaged or lost in
one or more cells, which then continue to divide and divide again producing more
abnormal cells that continue to divide and increase in number when and where
they should not. The masses of unwanted dividing cells cause damage to other
cells and tissues in the body. They are no longer controlled by normal genes that
stop division after normal body needs have been met. They just go on dividing
in spite of causing damage to other tissues and body functions. This is a cancer.
All the causes of cancer are now known to directly, or indirectly, damage these
normal genes that regulate cell division.

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_1, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

Cancer is Latin
for crab.

3

4

1 What Is Malignancy?

1

In the normal
genetic
make-up there
is a braking
mechanism
to stop cell
division when
the need for
more cells has
been satisﬁed.

One obvious factor is that the longer we live the more chance there is for the
genes that regulate cell proliferation to become damaged by exposure to agents
that damage the genetic blueprint, DNA. So most cancers become more common
the longer we live; most cancers are more common in old age. Another factor
is the rate of division for growth and replacement of tissues. Tissues like skin,
bowel lining or lining of air passages (especially in the lungs), and blood cells are
constantly being shed and replenished. Breast cells are constantly changing due
to hormone activity over a woman’s years of fertile life. With all this constant cell
proliferation there is more likelihood of mistakes being made in the process of
copying the genetic blueprint to daughter cells, especially as the process becomes
less accurate as we get older. A mistake or error in copying the genetic blueprint
is called a genetic mutation. These then are the tissues most likely to undergo
malignant change. Bone growth is greatest in growing young people and testicular activity is greatest in young adult males and these are the periods of life most
prone to cancers of these tissues. As men grow old the slow but constant changes
in the prostate gland make it more likely that factors causing a change in cells
might go wrong after years of exposure to the driving force of male hormones.
So prostate cancer becomes increasingly common in old age.
The remarkable thing is not that something goes wrong from time to time in
the delicate process of cell division but that things don’t go wrong more often. In
all life there is a continuous delicate living process involving countless generations of cell division. The better we care for our bodies with good living practices
the greater the likelihood of preventing something, possibly uncontrollable, from
seriously going wrong.
These good living practices include having good nutrition, healthy exercise,
safe sex and avoiding exposure to potentially damaging agents in our environment. All of these practices serve to reduce the exposure of the genetic material
in cells to agents that could cause changes in the genetic blueprint.
Whilst most normal body tissues are composed of cells that have the ability
to grow or reproduce, they normally only do so when there is a need. When this
need has been satisfied they stop reproducing. In the normal cell there is a braking mechanism to stop cell division when the need for more cells has been satisfied. Cells in such tissues as the skin or blood or the lining of the mouth, throat
or alimentary tract, wear out quickly and are constantly being replaced. They
are normally replaced only to meet the immediate need of the body, after which
reproduction stops. Also, after injury or cell death, surrounding cells reproduce
to replace and repair damaged tissues but there is an in-built mechanism that
stops the cell reproduction once the injury has been repaired and the wound has
healed. The “switch on” and “switch off” mechanisms are governed by two
different types of genes, whose functions are either to promote or to suppress
cell division and cell growth. These are called proto-oncogenes and tumour suppressors. Proto-oncogenes respond to growth signals and are positive regulators
of cell proliferation, only in the presence of appropriate growth signals. Tumour

1.1 Nature of a Malignancy

suppressor genes conversely act as negative regulators of cell growth and suppress or check the unregulated growth of cells. So in the normal cell the “switch-off”
mechanism is the response to the absence of specific growth signals.
Some, but not all, body tissues retain a lifelong ability to replicate themselves
to meet the body needs. For example, after surgical removal of as much as three
quarters of a normal liver, the remaining liver will grow back to its original size
within about 6 weeks and then stop. The nature of the “switch off” mechanism
is not fully understood – but it is clearly a critically important process that is
normally under genetic control.
In the case of a malignancy there is no “switching off” mechanism. Some of
the proto-oncogenes have now acquired mutations that mean they promote cell
growth even in the absence of appropriate growth signals, i.e. they become oncogenes (cancer promoting genes) and some of the tumour suppressor genes are
inactivated, such that abnormal growth goes unchecked. Abnormal and unwanted
cells then invade into surrounding tissues and possibly blood and lymph vessels,
or body cavities, thereby spreading to other parts of the body, where they establish new damaging colonies of unwanted growing cells. These colonies are called
secondary or metastatic cancers, known as secondaries or metastases.

1.1

Nature of a Malignancy

A malignancy is therefore totally different from an infection, which is caused by
organisms from outside the body invading body tissues and causing damage. The
body defences recognise invading organisms as foreign and protective measures
are set in train to destroy them. Invading cancer cells, on the other hand, are
abnormal cells that have developed from the body’s own cells and are therefore
allowed to further develop and infiltrate other tissues without the control normally provided by natural body defences.
Cancer cells also have different features and take on a different microscopic
appearance from the cells from which they developed. Cancer cells become
bizarre in size, shape and other features. As a rule, the more bizarre they become,
the more aggressive and malignant is their behaviour. Cancer cells are usually
derived from a single original cell, and are said to show a clonal origin. The
nucleus is often irregular, larger and darker in colour and may even be duplicated
in the one cell. The cytoplasm is often relatively smaller, irregular in size and
shape and without the special features of the cell of origin. There may be cells
not only of different sizes and shapes but also with different staining properties
(pleomorphic). These changes are brought about by changes in the tumour suppressor genes and oncogenes that are responsible for the control of cell division.

5

6

1 What Is Malignancy?

a

1

b

Fig. 1.1. Photomicrographs showing (a) breast cells of normal appearance aspirated from
a benign breast lump and (b) highly malignant anaplastic breast cancer cells aspirated
from a breast cancer (400×)

EXERCISE
Study the cells in Fig. 1.1. In what ways do cells differ in Fig. 1.1a, b?

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

1.2

What is the Prevalence of Cancer?

Cancer is known to occur in all societies and in all parts of the world. It affects
animals as well as man. In humans, cancer is known to have been present in
ancient times as well as in modern communities. However, the types of cancer

1.3 Tumours Benign and Malignant?

most prevalent in a community will vary with the age, sex distribution and race
of people in the community, as well as the geographical situation, the economic
and environmental situation and habits of the people including their diets. (See
Appendix showing incidence of different cancers in different countries.)
In developed countries cancer is responsible for about 25–30% of deaths. It
is second to cardiovascular disease as a cause of death. Young people in developed societies are much more at risk of dying from causes other than cancer
such as infectious diseases (including AIDS) or as a result of trauma (especially accidents in homes or on the roads, gunshot wounds or suicide), than
from cancer. Although cancer can occur at any age it is relatively uncommon
before the age of 40 years but as people grow older the risk of cancer progressively
increases.

1.3

Tumours Benign and Malignant?

Non-malignant or benign tumours are much more common than malignant
tumours. A benign tumour is a limited growth of cells that seems to be under
some sort of control. Although there is no apparent purpose in the growth,
the cells are more mature and closely resemble the cells from which they
developed. Once the growth reaches a certain size, it usually slows or stops,
such as a mole on the skin. All the cells of a benign tumour stay together as
a lump or swelling that is usually confi ned by a capsule or lining of fibrous
tissue. They do not spread to other parts of the body and are generally easily
removed by surgery.
There are two broad groups of solid tissue malignant tumours, commonly
called cancers. They are carcinomas and sarcomas. Carcinomas are malignant
tumours of epithelial origin, such as lining cells of skin, the alimentary tract,
respiratory tract, bladder or glands such as pancreas, thyroid or salivary glands.
Sarcomas are malignant tumours of connective tissue such as bone, cartilage,
muscle, fat, fascia, nerve or blood vessel. Carcinomas are much more common
than sarcomas.
In a malignant tumour the cells look less like the cells from which they
developed. The term anaplasia is used to describe cells that have lost their
distinctive features. The multiplication of cells also continues without control
(Fig. 1.2).
Very occasionally benign tumours can be life-threatening simply because
of their size and location. An example is meningioma, which is a benign,
slowly growing tumour that arises from the meninges covering the brain. It
can eventually prove fatal if not removed because it compresses the surrounding normal brain tissue and eventually interferes with vital brain functions.
A meningioma is nevertheless classified as a benign tumour because its cells
do not invade surrounding tissues or spread to other parts of the body via
the bloodstream or the lymphatic system and its removal by surgery should
result in cure.

7

8

1

1 What Is Malignancy?
Fig. 1.2. Illustrations of degrees of
cell degeneration into cancer

1.4

Dangers of Malignant Tumours

If a malignant tumour is detected while it is still small and before it has metastasised, it can usually be completely removed surgically or destroyed by radiotherapy or other means, before any serious damage has been done. The danger
it poses will have been eliminated and the patient will have been cured.
Malignant tumours become dangerous when they damage surrounding tissues
and when they establish metastases in other organs and tissues. To metastasise
cancer cells have an ability to break away from where they arose and penetrate or
spread into other tissues including blood and lymph vessels. Some cancers, like
basal cell cancers (BCCs) of skin have a low grade of malignancy. They almost
never metastasise but others, like some melanomas, produce malignant cells with
much greater ability to invade, break free and penetrate into blood and lymph
vessels relatively early in the disease. Such cancers become highly aggressive
and high grade and may establish early metastases. The ability of some cancers
to metastasise is not completely understood. It appears to be related to imperfect
intercellular cementing substances and is acquired through alterations in genes
that cause proteases, angiogenic factors and dysregulation of adhesion factors.
Proteases allow penetration of cells through tissues, angiogenic factors promote
development of new cancer capillaries for nutrition of the malignant cells and
dysregulation of adhesion factors “set cells free” to allow individual cell penetration rather than being held together as one tissue. The more of these factors associated with a cancer, the greater will be its malignancy and degree of spread.
Cancer cells have been likened to seeds of a weed growing in a garden. Just as
some seeds will grow in some soils and some need special soil conditions, so too,
some cancer cells tend to grow more readily in some tissues as opposed to other tissues. Some tissues seem to be disposed to different types of metastatic cell growth.
For example breast and prostate cancer cells are very likely to form metastases

1.5 What Causes Cancer

9

in bone; sarcoma cells and kidney cancers seem to grow preferentially in lung;
and alimentary tract cancer cells are most likely to grow as metastases in the liver.
Lymph nodes are the most common sites for metastatic spread of most cancers but
are not often the site of metastases of sarcomas. Other tissues appear to have general
resistance to metastases. The spleen and muscles are rarely the site of metastatic cell
growth except for melanoma cells, which seem to grow readily in virtually any tissue including lung, liver, brain and bone as well as lymph nodes. Squamous cancers
from skin and other tissues spread most often to nearby lymph nodes, then to more
distant lymph nodes but further spread seems to be delayed. However sooner or later
they will metastasise further to lungs or other organs or tissues.
Metastatic growths damage and destroy the organ or tissue in which they
are growing. For example, metastases in the liver interfere with the function of
the liver, metastases in the lung block air passages leading to lung infection or
pneumonia and metastases in the brain often result in headaches fi rst and eventually convulsions or coma. Bone metastases often cause pain and weakness of the
bones that may then collapse or break.

1.5

What Causes Cancer

1.5.1

Is There a Single Cause Or a Single Common Pathway?

For generations doctors, researchers, other health workers, philosophers, unconventional practitioners and sometimes “quacks” have been trying to fi nd a single
cause for all cancers, and consequently a single cure. No such cause has been
found and probably none exists. Many different factors initiate changes in cells
that lead to cancer. Current evidence would suggest that all causes of cancer
act by generating damage to the genetic blueprint of cells, specifically causing
mutations in proto-oncogenes and tumour suppressor genes. In many cases the
mutations in such genes can be linked directly to the types of DNA damage
associated with the agents that cause cancer e.g. UV-light and tobacco tar, and
each has its own signature form of DNA damage, providing evidence of “direct
cause and effect”. Even tumour viruses cause cancer by altering the cell’s
genetic blueprint, either by directly altering the expression of proto-oncogenes,
or indirectly, through the inactivation of tumour suppressor proteins, in effect,
over-riding the genetic blueprint. Today it is believed that cancer arises from a
single cell that has acquired 6–12 genetic changes (mutations) in key tumour
suppressor and proto-oncogenes. This explains the clonal origin of cancers, and
why cancer incidence increases with age, due to the sequential accumulation of
these mutations; and also why some familial cancers are inherited at an earlier
age, as such individuals would already have one of these pre-disposing mutations
at birth. While we can minimise our own risk of cancer by adopting a healthy
life-style, we cannot completely eliminate the risk, as within all our cells are
natural metabolites that can potentially cause such mutations.

Smoking is a
major cause of
many health
problems and
in modern
societies it is
the foremost
preventable
cause of
cancers.

10

1 What Is Malignancy?

1.5.2

1

Apoptosis

While so far cancer has been discussed simply in relation to uncontrolled cell
proliferation, there is another important counter-balance to cell growth, namely
that of cell death. Cell death is a natural feature of cells that occurs in damaged
cells, and also during development, for example, in the foetus the development
of our fi ngers arises from the death of the web of cells between the fingers. This
process of cell death is known as apoptosis. It is a highly regulated and biochemically defi ned process, distinct from simple necrosis (where cells simply spill out
their contents). Cells that have extensive genetic damage often spontaneously
undergo apoptosis, and in effect “commit suicide” for the greater good of the host.
This is an important mechanism for suppressing tumour development. Indeed,
the main aim of chemotherapy and radiotherapy is to induce such extensive
genetic damage in tumours that the cancer cells undergo apoptosis. Cells that
escape, or evade, this apoptotic process form tumours that are more resistant to
chemotherapy and radiotherapy, and are associated with poor prognosis.

1.5.3

Carcinogens

There are many known cancer causing agents (carcinogens) but whatever the
end result of their actions they all cause genetic mutations resulting in different
types of cancers.

1.5.4

Tobacco Smoking

Smoking is a major cause of many health problems and in modern societies it is
the foremost preventable cause of cancers. Tobacco smoking is responsible for
an increased incidence of cancers of the lung, mouth, throat and larynx as well
as cancers of the oesophagus, stomach, pancreas, kidney, bladder, cervix uteri
and in the long term even the breast.
EXERCISE
Study Fig. 1.3 and list the potential long-term effects of cigarette smoking.

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

1.5 What Causes Cancer

a

b

Fig. 1.3. (a, b) Tobacco smoking is responsible for many health problems including
many cancers

1.5.5

Alcohol

The association between alcohol and cancer is not so clear. There is an obvious
association in heavy drinkers, especially of strong spirits, with cancers in the
oesophagus. The incidence of oesophageal cancer is significantly increased in
both heavy drinkers and tobacco smokers in any of its forms (whether it be cigarettes, pipes or cigars). However people (especially males) who are both heavy
drinkers and heavy smokers have a much higher incidence than with just alcohol
alone or tobacco alone. Such an increased risk association is seen in cancers of
the alimentary tract from pharynx to colon and including the pancreas.
There is a secondary association between alcohol and primary liver cancer.
Alcohol causes cirrhosis of the liver and cirrhosis sometimes predisposes the
patient to primary liver cancer.

1.5.6

Betel Nut

In some countries a locally grown nut, betel nut, is cheaply produced and is
often chewed. It may become habit forming rather like chewing gum rather than

11

12

1

1 What Is Malignancy?

in itself being addictive. When not being chewed, betel nut is often held in the
cheek area of the mouth, lined by buccal mucosa. It has carcinogenic properties that commonly cause cancers of the mucous membrane lining the mouth,
especially in the buccal mucosa. When mixed with tobacco leaf or lime, or both,
the carcinogenic properties are increased.
The habits of chewing betel nut or tobacco leaf are responsible for a considerably increased incidence of cancer in the mouth of people who live in India,
Pakistan, South East Asia and New Guinea, where these habits are common.

1.5.7

Sunshine

Excessive ultra-violet light from sunshine is predominantly responsible for a
greatly increased incidence of skin cancers, especially in fair-skinned people
who live in sunny tropical or sub-tropical climates. UV light of solariums can
be equally damaging in even shorter periods of time (Figs. 1.4 and 1.5).

1.5.8

Other Forms of Irradiation: X-rays and Atomic Irradiation

Increased incidence of cancers in the skin of the hands in people who held X-ray
plates in their hands during the early use of X-ray machines was the fi rst evidence
that irradiation with X-rays would cause certain cancers. An increased incidence
of other cancers, including thyroid cancer and leukaemias, followed the atomic
irradiation exposure after the World War 2 atomic bomb explosions at Hiroshima
and Nagasaki and the atomic energy plant accident in Chernobyl (Russia) in 1986.
This confi rmed the risk of these forms of irradiation in causing cancer.

Fig. 1.4. Diagram illustrating simple preventive
measures to protect against skin cancers. People
and communities should be encouraged to adopt
such lifestyle practices as a routine. Note the hat,
protective-cream and long sleeved shirt

1.5 What Causes Cancer

a

13

b

c

Fig. 1.5. (a– c) Photographs showing early, late and extremely late effects of sun damage
with increasing hyperkeratoses, BCCs and SCCs

1.5.9

Industrial Irritants and Carcinogens

The first cancer in Western countries found to be caused by a chemical agent was
cancer of the scrotum. This cancer commonly developed in chimney sweeps in
Britain in the eighteenth century. The cause was found to be soot that collected in
the scrotal area. Later, certain dyes used by German workers in chemical factories
and excreted in the urine were found to be associated with an increased incidence
of bladder cancer. People using phosphorus to paint luminous dials on clocks and
watches were also found to have a high incidence of bone cancer (osteosarcoma).
The phosphorus was absorbed from the habit of the workers wetting the tips of
their paintbrushes with saliva by putting the brushes in their mouths.

1.5.10

Chemical Carcinogens

A number of chemical agents can cause cancer in experimental animals. Similarly chemical agents are known to be present in tobacco tars and in products
of the petroleum and other industries.

1.5.11

Hormones

Increased hormones or prolonged hormone exposure can be associated with
increased risk of some cancers. There is an increased risk of breast cancer in
women having hormone replacement therapy (HRT) for postmenopausal symptoms. Prostate cancer in men is known to be an androgen dependent tumour.
Without androgens prostate cancer will not grow. Other cancers that are sometimes linked to hormones include cancer of the body of the uterus.

14

1

1 What Is Malignancy?

1.5.12

Viruses

Viruses have been extensively studied as possible causes of human cancers.
These investigations have been stimulated by evidence that certain viruses cause
cancers in animals and that human warts, which are benign tumours, are known
to be caused by a virus. A “human papilloma virus” (HPV) may also sometimes
cause wart-like papillomas in the skin of people and these can become malignant.
One form of HPV is sexually transmitted and can cause cancer of the uterus,
vagina or vulva in women or cancer of the penis in men. HPV is now known to
be the most common cause of cancer of the cervix.
There is now evidence that some other viruses appear to be responsible for
some other human cancers. For example, there is cancer that arises in the back of
the nose, most common in Chinese who live in or near the Quantong province of
China near Hong Kong. In these people there is a high incidence of infection with
the Epstein-Barr virus that probably plays a part in the development of this cancer. The malignant tumour Burkitt’s lymphoma, most common in certain parts
of Africa and New Guinea, is also associated with a high incidence of infection
with the Epstein-Barr or a similar virus.
Convincing evidence that viruses play a role in the development of some
cancers comes from analysis of the incidence of cancer in patients who have
received solid organ transplants (e.g. kidney, heart, liver). These patients receive
lifelong immunosuppression to prevent rejection of their transplanted organ, and
apparently as a result of this have an increased incidence of cancers but especially
of those cancers known to be associated with viral infections. In Australian renal
transplant recipients, for example, the incidence of squamous cell carcinoma is
100 times that in the rest of the population – and a clear association with HPV
has been demonstrated. Similarly increased is the incidence of carcinoma of
the cervix (also known to be associated with HPV), hepatoma (associated with
the hepatitis B and hepatitis C viruses), non-Hodgkin lymphoma (sometimes
associated with the Epstein-Barr Virus) and Kaposi’s sarcoma (associated with
Cytomegalovirus infection). Similar tumours are seen in patients with AIDS
whose immune systems are damaged, not by drugs, but by the virus that causes
immune-deficiency.
1.5.12.1 Recent studies of viruses at a molecular level

At a molecular level viruses have been shown to cause cancer in a number of
ways. Firstly, many viruses encode proteins that directly target and inactivate
host tumour suppressor genes such as the p53 and retinoblastoma (RB) tumour
suppressors. This allows the virus to kick start cells into dividing so they can
replicate their genetic material using the host replication machinery in S-phase of
the cell cycle. Viruses through having to compete with the host cell have strongly
expressed genes to assist their propagation, and sometimes they inappropriately
activate the expression of host proto-oncogenes, or are indirectly associated

1.5 What Causes Cancer

with chromosomal re-arrangements that place the host proto-oncogenes under
the genetic regulation of the virus.

1.5.13

Bacteria

Evidence of a direct link between bacteria and cancer is unclear although prolonged
inflammation of ulcers caused by prolonged bacterial activity can predispose to
malignant change. Perhaps the most apparent association of a link between bacteria
and cancer is the common finding of helicobacter organisms in gastric cancer.

1.5.14

Pre-Existing Abnormalities

It is a common observation that congenitally abnormal tissues, chronically irritated tissues, chronically atrophic or degenerate tissues, chronically inflamed or
ulcerated tissues, or severely scarred tissues are more likely to develop malignant cells than are normal tissues. Examples include cancer that develops in an
undescended testis, and squamous cell cancer that develops in a chronic ulcer
resulting from a severe burn. Also, pre-existing benign tumours such as polyps,
papillomas and adenomas have a propensity to undergo malignant change; some
types more than others.

1.5.15 Nutritional Deﬁciencies and Food Habits
Deficiencies of certain vitamins, trace elements, anti-oxidants, naturally occurring plant hormones and other plant products including natural fibre have been
linked to increased risk of several cancers of different types, in different body
systems and in different communities and racial groups often living in different
parts of the world. High animal fat content of food appears to be associated with
increased risk of some cancers; whilst a diet rich in fresh fruit and vegetables
appears to be protective. Details of these associations are discussed later in
this chapter under the heading diet and in the chapters of the various cancers
concerned, especially Chaps. 12, 13 and 16.

1.5.16

Estimate of Known Risk Factors and Associations with Cancer

The association of the most common skin cancers with ultraviolet light is clear.
Of the other known and potentially avoidable cancer risk factors it has been
variously estimated that food, alcohol and tobacco might be associated with about
70%, viruses and bacteria about 10%, heredity about 10%, physical factors (e.g.
chemicals, irradiation, chronic trauma) about 5% and other factors about 5%.

15

16

1

1 What Is Malignancy?

The largely unknown factor is of inevitable degeneration especially associated
with old age. If all the known factors could be avoided how many people would
eventually develop a cancer, as part of the inevitable degeneration of tissues
associated with old age, is quite unknown. However, it is certain that with less
cancer in younger people many more people would be living longer and healthier
lives, but malignant cells would eventually develop in most old people after so
many years of repeated cell reproduction in so many tissues.
EXERCISE
What genes might contribute to an increased risk of breast cancer?

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

2

Epidemiology

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Comparative cancer incidence
› People most at risk
› Viral and other infection associations
› Heredity and genetic factors
› Age
› Predisposing and pre-malignant risk factors
› Gender
› Diet
› Race
› Geographic associations
› Environment
› Occupation and cancer
› Habits and lifestyle
› Possible psychological factors
› Cancer registries

2.1

Comparative Cancer Incidence

The incidence of cancers is very different in different countries (see Appendix).
The most obvious differences are between developed and developing countries.
Cancers of the lung, prostate, breast, colo-rectum and pancreas are all much more
common in developed countries and cancers of oesophagus and liver are much
more common in developing countries. Other cancers that are at least twice as
common in developed countries are cancers of skin, uterus, ovary, bladder, kidney,
testis, brain, the lymphomas, leukaemias and multiple myeloma. Nasopharyngeal
cancers are more than twice as common in developing countries.
Table 2.1 shows the year 2001 incidence of the most common internal cancers
in the United States and the incidence of death rates from these cancers.

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_2, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

The incidence
of cancers is
very diﬀerent
in diﬀerent
countries (see
Appendix). The
most obvious
diﬀerences
are between
developed and
developing
countries.

17

18

2

Epidemiology

Table 2.1 The year 2001 incidence of the most common internal cancers in the United
States and the incidence of death rates from these cancers

2

Cancer

Incidence

Deaths

Prostate

198,100

31,500

Breast

193,700

40,600

Lung

169,500

157,400

Colon and rectum

135,400

56,700

2.2

People Most at Risk

Although the risk of developing cancer is much lower in young people cancer
can affect people of any age, race or occupation in any part of the world. People
who have been cured of one cancer often ask about the risk of developing a
second cancer. Whilst it is true that some people have an increased predisposition towards developing cancer, in most cases people who have already had one
cancer cured have only a slightly greater risk of developing a second cancer
than do people who have never had a cancer. For example, a woman who has
been cured of breast cancer has an increased risk of developing cancer in the
other breast and a somewhat increased risk of developing cancer of the uterus or
ovary, but the majority of these people never develop any other serious cancer.
Again, people who have been treated and apparently cured of one bowel cancer
do have an increased risk of developing a second cancer elsewhere in the bowel
but most do not. It is also true that people who have been cured of one type of
cancer have a slightly increased risk of developing a second cancer, not only of
the same system but of another system of the body, but the increased risk is small.
However, the risk of developing a second cancer is increased if they continue
to indulge in an obviously cancer-causing habit such as cigarette smoking or if
they inherit a mutation in a tumour suppressor or proto-oncogene. There is also
an increased risk of developing a leukaemia in some people 20 years or so after
treatment of another cancer with a prolonged chemotherapy program.

2.3
In the normal
course of events
cancer cannot
be passed
directly from
one individual
to another.

Viral and Other Infection Associations

In the normal course of events cancer cannot be passed directly from one
individual to another. The present day worldwide scourge of acquired immune
deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is caused by a virus infection that can predispose
to cancer but AIDS is not itself a cancer. In this disease the sufferer’s natural
immune defences against infection and cancer are damaged, resulting in a higher
incidence of cancer developing in affected people. Several cancers are now
commonly associated with HIV infection or AIDS. These include a sarcoma of

2.4 Heredity and Genetic Factors

19

soft tissues called Kaposi’s sarcoma, lymphomas of the central nervous system,
non-Hodgkin lymphoma and cancer of the cervix. Each of these is described
and discussed in Part 3 of this book.
Similarly, liver cancer is not infectious but a common precursor of liver cancer
is the chronic inflammatory changes in the liver due to hepatitis B or hepatitis
C infection. These hepatitis infections do spread easily from person to person,
mainly from food or intimate contact. In the case of hepatitis C, blood transfusion
or sharing of intravenous needles is also a common method of spread. Liver
cancer therefore develops more commonly in people who have been infected.
However in many cases the liver cancer doesn’t develop until at least 20 years
after infection. This is known as “the latency period” and is consistent with
the clonal origin of cancers and that five to eleven other genetic alterations are
required for cancer to develop.
The human papilloma virus is sometimes responsible for papillomas or
squamous cell carcinomas of skin or genitals of either sex. It is often transmitted
during the sexual intercourse and is particularly associated with cancer of the
cervix. The latency period for the development of cervical cancer from human
papilloma virus is 5–30 years.
Viruses can act by modulating the function of proto-oncogenes and tumour
suppressors. These original fi ndings provided initial molecular insights into the
genetic basis of cancer.

2.4

Heredity and Genetic Factors

Molecular biology and studies of association of genes with cancer is one of the
most stimulating, challenging and exciting fields of cancer research.
At this stage information about three genetic concepts is important. These still
evolving concepts are about cancer proto-oncogenes, tumour suppressor genes
and cell cycle regulation genes. It is certain that these concepts will be modified, changed or added to fairly rapidly as more information is gathered in this
relatively new but exciting area of study being carried out in many laboratories
in many parts of the world. It is not known whether all the different carcinogenic
factors already described all activate “biological triggers” in cells. Whatever the
mechanism or combination of mechanisms, it seems that cancers are ultimately
caused by changes in tumour suppressor genes or proto-oncogenes that convert
them into oncogenes, i.e. genes that can cause cancer.

2.4.1

Tumour Suppressors, Proto-Oncogenes and Cancer-Oncogenes

The many functions of our body cells are controlled by genes. Genes are coded in
the DNA that makes up the chromosomes or genetic library of our cells. Like the
genes that determine features like eye colour and blood group, we inherit these

About 10% of
breast cancers
result from
breast tissue
changes due to
one of several
speciﬁc genes
that have been
inherited from
a parent.

20

2

2

Epidemiology

controlling genes from our parents. There is a link between genetic make-up
and some cancers.
Different genes are associated with different cancers for example the BRCA1
gene is often associated with either breast cancer or ovarian cancer. The BRCA2
gene can be associated with either breast cancer or pancreas cancer. Recent
studies have also shown a link between the BRCA2 gene and prostate cancer,
particularly prostate cancer in younger men.
The p53 gene is the gene most commonly associated with a broad spectrum of
cancers. This gene is responsible for coordinating the cellular response to DNA
damage, be it a transient growth arrest to allow the cell to repair the DNA damage,
or to instruct the cell to commit suicide via apoptosis if the damage was too
great. p53 protein is a transcription factor that switches on expression of genes
that regulate the cell cycle and cause growth arrest and apoptosis. Accordingly,
it has been called the guardian of the genome because of its role in indirectly
maintaining the coding integrity of the genetic blueprint. Approximately half
of all cancers carry an abnormal (mutated) p53 gene, and have lost the other
normal copy. Every normal cell has two copies of every gene (except some genes
of the Y chromosome in males). The mutation of one p53 gene, leaves the other
one potentially active and able to regulate cell growth and apoptosis. However,
the mutant p53 gene makes a protein that inactivates the normal p53 by binding to
the normal protein and inactivating the normal p53 protein. Since the protective
role of normal p53 protein is now overcome the genetic material is unstable and
the remaining normal p53 gene is deleted from its position on chromosome 17.
The mutation of one gene followed by the loss of the remaining normal gene is a
common feature of tumour suppressor genes. The mutant p53 gene by indirectly
promoting cancer behaves as an oncogene, so the p53 gene, can behave as both a
tumour suppressor or an oncogene depending on whether or not it is mutated.
BRCA1 and BRCA2 are also tumour suppressor genes and like the p53 gene
make a protein that has a role in switching on gene expression, and is involved
with DNA repair and regulation of the cell cycle.
All tumour suppressor genes, play a modulating or inhibitory role in cell
growth and differentiation. Factors that impair or damage these genes can therefore be carcinogenic.
Cells also contain special genes called proto-oncogenes. These proto-oncogenes
are responsible for programmed growth in development or repair. They play a
major role in co-ordinating our growth from a single fertilized egg cell into an
adult with 1013 cells. When development or tissue repair is complete, the cell
growth is switched off. Cancer-causing agents or spontaneous genetic mutation
change the proto-oncogenes into potentially cancer-causing oncogenes, as they
promote growth where and when they should not. Spontaneous genetic mutation
increases as we get older as our DNA repair processes become less efficient.
When an oncogene is active in a cell, the cell doesn’t require growth signals
to grow so that the “switched-on” mechanism of growth and repair continues
instead of being “switched off ” as it should be, and the cells that are produced do
not later undergo apoptosis (self destruction) when they are not wanted. Unlike

2.4 Heredity and Genetic Factors

tumour suppressors only one genetic change is associated with these genes
becoming oncogenes, as a mutation leads to the activation of the gene function
in the absence of the appropriate cell growth signal. Proto-oncogenes or oncogenes
are genes that encode proteins involved in all aspects of the cell signalling pathway
that promote the social behaviour of cells and their growth.
Cancer causing oncogenes or defective tumour suppressors may be inherited;
or result from cancer-causing agents changing proto-oncogenes into oncogenes;
or result from accidental genetic mutation caused by errors in copying the genetic
material in dividing cells or by genetic damaging agents within the cell (e.g.
oxygen free radicals) or by external agents such as UV irradiation of sunlight.
Occasionally, these errors allow cells to divide without correctly partitioning the
genetic complement of cells equally between the daughter cells, such that cells
now have multiple copies of the genetic material contributed by both parents, and
become polyploid (have more DNA content per cell). This is a typical feature of
cancer cells at times of rapid cell growth in some tissues or after the many years
of cell division during the course of a normal life.
In colon cancer, molecular oncologists have identified the sequential genetic
changes in specific oncogenes and tumour suppressors that lead a normal cell
into becoming a cancer cell.
From breast cancer studies it has been shown that about 10% of breast cancers
result from breast tissue changes due to one of several specific genes that have
been inherited from a parent. Most of the remaining 90% are probably the result
of an accidental genetic mutation after constant and repeated changes in breast
tissue over many years during cyclical hormonal stimulation.

2.4.2

Tumour Suppressor Genes

As opposed to proto-oncogenes or cancer-oncogenes these inherited genes,
tumour suppressor genes, play a modulating or inhibitory role in cell growth
and differentiation. Factors that impair or damage these genes can therefore be
carcinogenic.

2.4.3

Cell Cycle Regulatory Genes

In laboratory culture cancer cells can grow and divide every 24 h, however, in
patients regulatory processes restrict cell doubling times to between 5 and 700
days depending on the cell type and tumour stage. The control of cell growth
and division has been well studied. The cell growth cycle consists of five stages.
Stage 1 starts at the end of mitosis (M) and ends at the point the genetic material is copied, and is called the G1 phase (G = gap). This copying of the genetic
material defi nes the next phase, known as the S phase (S = synthesis). The next
stage starts at the end of DNA synthesis and ends with the cell starting mitotic
division into daughter cells. The gap between the S phase and mitosis (M) is

21

22

2

Epidemiology

2

DNA SYNTHESIS
RNA SYNTHESIS
PROTEIN SYNTHESIS

RNA SYNTHESIS
PROTEIN SYNTHESIS

S

G2

M

G1
RNA SYNTHESIS
PROTEIN SYNTHESIS

Fig. 2.1. Diagram illustrating the cycle of cell division and the sites of controlling genetic
and molecular biological activity. Normal cells and cancer cells divide in a similar way
but normal cells stop dividing when sufficient new cells have been made. Cancer cells
keep dividing uncontrollably. The new abnormal and unwanted cells become invasive and
dangerous, damaging other cells and tissues. Because they are constantly dividing, they are
therefore more constantly exposed to anti-cancer drugs that predominantly affect dividing
cells when they are in one or more of the stages of cell division (see Sect. 8.3.4 in Chap. 8)

known as G2. Cells not in cycle or undergoing differentiation, are said to be in
G0, as they are no longer in cycle.
The cycle cannot proceed without a series of successive events occurring. If
an event fails, then the cell arrests at defi ned checkpoints to allow adjustments
to be made. The most notable checkpoints occur at the G1-S and G2-M transition
points. The G1-S checkpoint allows the cell to repair any DNA damage before it is
copied in the S-phase, to prevent mutations becoming fi xed in the genetic material. The second, G2-M checkpoint allows the cell to ensure that the chromosomes
are arranged correctly prior to segregation to the daughter cells (Fig. 2.1).

2.5

Molecular Biological Changes in Controlling Cell Division

The cell cycle control system is based on two partners, cyclins and cyclindependent kinases. Cyclins, are regulatory proteins expressed at specific
stages of the cell cycle, that interact with specific cyclin-dependent kinases.

2.5 Molecular Biological Changes in Controlling Cell Division

The partnerships between the cyclins and the kinases they specifically activate,
ensure that environmental factors and the cell’s readiness to divide directly influence progress through the cell cycle. The basis of the G1-S checkpoint is well
understood. Cells can enter S phase only if a certain protein (called the retinoblastoma protein after the eye cancer it is associated with) is phosphorylated by
a specific cyclin activated kinase. The multiply phosphorylated RB protein then
releases specific transcription factors, previously bound in an inactive form to
itself, to allow them to switch-on genes involved in DNA synthesis.
In times of genetic damage, p53 tumour suppressor protein blocks the G1-S
transition by switching on expression of a protein, p21, that inhibits this kinase
to block DNA synthesis, and stop the cells entering the S phase.
Since cancer cells exhibit unregulated growth it is not surprising that they
have been shown to have genetic changes in cyclins, cyclin-dependent kinases,
p53 and RB protein, to allow the cancer cells to proliferate. The nature of the
genetic changes varies from cancer to cancer, which is why it has been difficult
to identify the mechanisms of how cells become cancer cells.
More recently discovered are genes that inhibit or stimulate cell reproduction
according to need. Impairment of these genes and their active roles in cell reproduction management can also lead to cancer.

2.5.1

Inherited Cancer Genes: Inherited and Familial Cancers

From an immediate practical and clinical point of view in some relatively
uncommon cancers there is a strong hereditary factor while in other cancers,
there is a less obvious hereditary factor, but for most there is no evidence of an
hereditary factor at all. Among the most obvious cancers with a strong hereditary
factor as a condition called familial polyposis coli in which, by transmission
of a responsible oncogene, half the children of an affected parent are likely to
develop the condition of multiple polyps in the large bowel. All those affected
who do develop these particular polyps will eventually develop cancer in the
bowel, usually by the age of 40.
With a rare but inherited familial condition called Xeroderma pigmentosa
there is a high incidence of development of skin cancer.
Another rare but most often inherited condition is called the Li-Fraumeni
syndrome. This syndrome is caused by germ-line mutations in the p53 gene.
This condition has provided a model to understand further the pathogenesis of
genetic cancers. Patients with this syndrome are defective in one allele of the
p53 (“the guardian of the genome”) or were born with one non-functional allele
of it. Therefore if the other p53 allele is affected during their life, cancer will
develop.
Among the more common cancers with an increased familial incidence are
cancers of the breast, stomach and bowel. Although the increased risk for relatives of sufferers is not great in most families, occasionally it may be considerable.
For example there have been rare reports of families in which about half the
female blood relatives have developed breast cancer. What is responsible for this

23

24

2

2

Epidemiology

apparent increased risk in a few families was largely unknown until recent
discoveries of inherited genes called BRCA1 and BRCA2 (the names are derived
from BR of Breast and CA of cancer). The BRCA1 gene is on chromosome 17
and the BRCA2 gene is on chromosome 13. These genes behave as oncogenes on
breast cells (see hereditary and genetic factors). Families with a high incidence
of breast cancer may carry one or both of these genes, alternatively it may be
simply that members of these families have similar lifestyle habits and have been
affected by similar environmental factors.
Cancers of the stomach, colon or rectum have a significantly increased risk
of developing in relatives of sufferers from these conditions, but this risk is very
high only in patients with an obvious genetic predisposing cause such as familial
polyposis coli. In most cases it is likely that members of these families had similar
diets and other environmental factors.
Another indication of the genetic influence in association with stomach cancer
is the fact there have been reports of a slightly higher risk of people with blood
Group A developing cancer of the stomach than there is of people of other blood
groups. Such information is well documented but the risk is so small that it is
of little practical value to anyone other than statisticians and scientists studying
cancer. The fact is that thousands of people of different blood groups had to be
studied before any difference in cancer incidence could be substantiated and
some studies have indeed not detected any difference. For the individual with
blood group A the risk of being any more likely to develop stomach cancer is
almost negligible.

2.6

Age

In general, the risk of developing most cancers increases with age but there
are exceptions. For example it is a feature of familial cancers that they usually
present at an earlier age and are more likely to be bilateral or multiple than
cancers without a familial association. Also, although cancer in young people
is uncommon, no age group is entirely free from risk.

2.6.1
Cancers that occur
in younger age
groups are often
in those tissues
that tend to divide
and grow more
in early life.

Infants

An uncommon cancer of the kidney, known as a Wilm’s tumour (or nephroblastoma)
occurs almost exclusively in infants less than 5 years of age, and may, in fact,
even be present at birth. Other malignant tumours, which although uncommon,
are more likely to occur in infants and young children, are retinoblastomas
(eye), neuroblastomas (nerve tissue), rhabdomyosarcomas (voluntary muscle)
and medulloblastomas (brain).

2.6 Age

2.6.2

25

Children, Adolescents and Young Adults

The acute leukaemias, especially acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, are more likely
to occur in children and adolescents than adults. Teenagers and young adults
have the highest incidence of osteosarcomas as well as the highest incidence
of the lymphoma known as Hodgkin lymphoma or Hodgkin disease. Burkitt’s
lymphoma is a tumour that predominantly affects the jaw of children most
commonly in tropical Africa and New Guinea.

2.6.3

Increasing Age

Malignant tumours of the testis are not common but when they do occur it is
most often in men younger than 40 years with a peak incidence at about 25
years for germ-cell testicular cancers of the teratoma (or non-seminoma) type.
For seminoma type germ-cell cancers of the testis the peak incidence is at about
35 years of age. Ovarian cancer and cancer of the cervix most commonly affect
women between the ages of 40 and 60 years, but cancer in the endometrial lining
of the uterus, is more likely to occur in women over 60 years.
Lung cancer has become increasingly common in communities where cigarette smoking is prevalent. It most frequently occurs between the ages of 40 and
60, because it takes some years for the damaging effects of tobacco carcinogens
to cause changes in the air passages that lead to cancer.
Breast cancer may affect women of any age but it is uncommon in women
under the age of 30. Thereafter it increases in incidence with increasing age,
having a mean of about 60 years.
The incidence of stomach and colo-rectal cancers increases with age, reaching a peak between 60 and 75 years.
Cancer of the prostate gland is essentially a disease of increasing age. It is not
often seen before the age of 50 but other than skin cancer it is the most common
cancer affecting men over the age of 65 and almost all men who reach the age of
90 years will have at least some low-grade prostate cancer cells.
Skin cancers and head and neck (mouth and throat) cancers become more
common with increasing age. Although the sun damage to skin may have occurred
many years previously and, in the case of mouth and throat cancers, the most
common association is with smoking that began many years before. Melanoma
is rare before puberty but after puberty it affects all age groups. It then becomes
a little more common with increasing age. Unlike other skin cancers that most
often occur in the skin of the face (because that skin is most constantly exposed
to the sun), melanoma is not so directly related to prolonged sunlight exposure.
Melanoma occurs most commonly on the trunk, thighs and lower limbs; sites
not constantly exposed to the sun but areas more likely to be acutely damaged by
intermittent episodes of sunburn, especially sunburn in childhood.
The strongest association with age is that for most cancers the risk of developing a cancer is greater in the older age groups. More than 70% of cancers are fi rst

26

2

2

Epidemiology

detected in people over 65 years. This is probably because of the potential for
more genetic mutation mistakes to be made with increasing age and because these
may be made more frequently after years of exposure to toxins like tobacco.
Cancers that occur in younger age groups are often in those tissues that tend
to divide and grow more in early life including brain, nerve and blood-forming
cells and growing bone. In young adults during the most active reproductive age
groups, the testis and ovary are at increased risk.

2.7

Predisposing and Pre-Malignant Risk Factors

Abnormal tissues in general have an increased risk of malignant change.

2.7.1

Skin

The UV-A and B wavelengths are the major carcinogenic factors of sunlight.
Repeated sun damage to skin is often followed by thickening and crustiness of
the surface layers of the skin called “hyperkeratosis”. This can be a pre-malignant
condition and usually precedes the development of skin cancer. Hyperkeratosis
of the lips also predisposes to cancer on the lips, most commonly the lower lip
(see Figs. 14.1 and 14.2).
Melanoma commonly develops in a pre-existing pigmented naevus, or mole,
although sometimes a melanoma develops in skin where there has not been a
mole. Fair-skinned and redheaded people have a greater risk of skin cancers
including melanoma because of lack of protective pigment in their skin.

2.7.2

Oesophagus

Cancer of the oesophagus is more common in developing countries where
food contamination is common. However the incidence of cancer of the lower
oesophagus is now increasing in Western countries. This is often associated with
a “Barret’s ulcer”, an ulcer in the lower oesophagus likely to be associated with
persistent gastric reflux.

2.7.3

Stomach

People who have pernicious anaemia or chronic atrophic gastritis are six times
more likely to develop stomach cancer than other people. People with gastriculcer disease do have an increased risk of stomach cancer although this was
long disputed by some gastroenterologists who believed that gastric lesions

2.7 Predisposing and Pre-Malignant Risk Factors

were either benign or malignant from their onset. Most agree, however, that the
Helicobacter pylori bacterium does sometimes cause gastric cancer as well as
gastric ulcers and that effective eradication of this bacillus with antibiotics may
well reduce the incidence of gastric cancer. The more common duodenal ulcer
does not show an increased tendency to develop into cancer.

2.7.4

Bowel

Polyps in the large bowel (colon or rectum) predispose to an increased incidence
of bowel cancer. A chronically inflamed bowel, such as in ulcerative colitis, has
an increased risk of developing cancer. The younger the patient at the onset of
the disease, the longer the disease has been present, and the greater the extent
of the disease in the colon, the greater will be the risk of cancer developing. In
general about 10% of people with ulcerative colitis will develop a colon cancer
after about 10 years. The risk of cancer developing in Crohn’s disease, another
chronic inflammatory condition of bowel, sometimes called granular colitis, is
also increased but not to the same degree.

2.7.5

Mouth and Throat

Chronic irritation of the lining of the mouth and throat, as especially seen in
smokers and sometimes in diabetics, may lead to a thickening of the surface cell
layer that shows as white patches called leukoplakia. These white patches also
have a predisposition towards the development of cancer (see Figs. 14.4a).

2.7.6

Stones: Gallstones, Kidney and Bladder Stones

Cancer of the gall bladder is not common particularly in Western countries, but
when it does occur it is almost always in a gall bladder containing stones, with
chronic irritation and inflammation in the wall of the gall bladder. Irritating stones
may also cause cancer of the pelvis of the kidney and cancer in the bladder.

2.7.7

Chronic Inﬂammation

Any chronically inflamed, chronically irritated or injured, or chronically degenerate (atrophic) tissue has a somewhat increased risk of developing cancer after
some years. Examples include chronically discharging wounds, burn scars, and
varicose ulcers of the lower legs, which occasionally develop malignant change,
as well as the chronically irritated lining of the mouth, throat, and air passages
of smokers in which malignant change is relatively common.

27

28

2

2.7.8

2

Epidemiology

Acute Injury

Whether malignancy follows acute trauma is not clear. There are a number of incidences where tumours, especially sarcomas, have been found in tissues after some
well-documented injury such as a kick in the thigh or calf, or a blow to a bone at
football. Whether the tumour followed the injury or whether the injury simply drew
attention to a tumour that was already present is often impossible to determine.
Certainly, it must be very rare indeed for a malignant tumour to follow such an injury,
as these types of injury are very common and sarcomas of this type are rare.

2.7.9

Pre-Existing Lumps and Benign Tumours

In the case of benign tumours, there is sometimes a risk that a benign tumour
may become malignant. With some types of benign tumours, such as warts, the
risk is negligible. With the common fatty tumour, lipoma, the risk is so small
that removal of the lipoma is usually not justified. However, with others there is a
somewhat greater (but still small) risk of malignant change and surgical removal
is usually recommended. Such lesions include papilloma in the mouth or papilloma in a duct of a breast, or some soft tissue tumours, or adenomas of glands, or
some benign tumours of bone or cartilage. With still other benign tumours, such
as polyps of stomach or colon, papillomas in the bladder or especially papilloma
of the rectum, the risk of malignant change is of real significance and surgical
removal of these tumours is virtually always indicated.

2.7.10 Congenitally Abnormal Tissues
Congenitally abnormal tissues all have a greater risk of developing cancer than
do normally developed tissues. These include, a thyroglossal cyst (a congenital remnant of thyroid tissue high in the neck or in the back of the tongue), a
branchial cyst (a cyst resulting from a congenital developmental abnormality
in the neck) and an undescended testis (a testis that has not descended into the
scrotum at birth). The increased risks of these tissues developing a cancer are
of varying degrees. The risk is very small in the case of branchial cysts but in
the case of an undescended testis the risk is relatively high.

2.7.11
The incidence of
lung cancer in
women is now
approaching
that in men.

Gender

Obviously, cancers that occur in organs unique to one gender occur only in that
gender For example, cancers of the uterus, vagina or ovary are unique to females,
and cancers of the prostate or testes are unique to males, however breast cancer,
often assumed to be associated with female breasts only, does sometimes occur
in males. About 1% of breast cancers are in men.

2.8 Diet and Cancer: Special Dietary Preventive Ingredients

29

The incidence of lung cancer has increased some ten times over the past 60 or
70 years. This increase, initially in men, has been due to increased use of tobacco
products. Thirty years ago, lung cancer was ten times more common in men
than in women. However, following the trend in recent years for increased use of
cigarettes by women, the incidence of lung cancer in women is now approaching
that in men. In most Western countries, after skin cancer, breast cancer is the
most common cancer in women. However recent statistics show that in some
countries, including the US, the incidence of lung cancer in women is approaching
that of breast cancer and may become more common within a few years.
Skin cancers are more prevalent in men than in women because of the increased
exposure to the sun of men working and playing out of doors, often without a
hat or a shirt (see Figs. 10.2–10.7]. On the other hand, many cancers have a significantly different incidence in the sexes for no apparent reason. For example in
most Western countries, but not all, cancer of the stomach is three times more
likely to occur in men than in women and cancers of the colon and rectum are
more common in males. Cancer of the oesophagus is more common in men, especially cancer of the middle and lower oesophagus; however, cancer of the upper
oesophagus is more likely to occur in women. Primary liver cancer is four times
more common in men than women. For some unknown reason, the incidence of
cancer of the pancreas has increased in the US and in other Western countries,
especially in men and mostly in men who smoke cigarettes. It is now also being
seen more frequently in women, especially in women who are smokers.

2.8

Diet and Cancer: Special Dietary Preventive Ingredients

There is an association between diet and some cancers A high fibre diet is protective
against bowel cancer. Whether this is a mechanical effect of the bulk of high fibre
alone or some other factor is uncertain. The widely accepted theory is that diets
high in meat, animal fats and highly refined foods as in Westernised, industrialised
countries, can produce cancer-inducing substances (carcinogens). The absence of
fibre from the diet results in a relative constipation that is thought to allow these
carcinogens to stay in contact with the bowel wall for prolonged periods.
In developing countries, the diet generally contains a great deal more roughage
and fibre with less meat, animal fat and refi ned foods. The already low carcinogen
content of the stool is further diluted by the bulky quantity of stool and rapidly
passed by the frequent bowel motions, resulting in a low incidence of large-bowel
cancer.
More recent studies have shown that the effect of fibre may be more than just
increasing bulk and rapid passage of bowel contents. Fibre is basically composed
of a complex carbohydrate glucan that can stimulate macrophages in healing
wounds and may stimulate immune protective macrophages in the bowel wall.
Glucan is found in high-fibre foods such as grains, fruit and vegetables but is not
present in meat, dairy products or fatty foods (Fig. 2.2).

A high ﬁbre diet
is protective
against bowel
cancer.

30

2

2

Epidemiology

Fig. 2.2. Asian diets
are protective against
certain cancers

In addition to lower rates of bowel cancer associated with high fibre diets,
Asians and others who eat predominantly plant products, also have a lower
incidence of a number of other health problems that are common in Western
societies. Particularly if these diets are high in legumes like peas, beans and soy,
they contain abundant quantities of naturally occurring plant hormones called
phytoestrogens. Communities having such diets have not only less bowel cancer
but also a lower incidence of both breast cancer and prostate cancer. They also
have a low incidence of a number of other health problems in women including
osteoporosis, pre-menstrual tension and postmenopausal syndrome.
Although the evidence of a direct association between diet and cancer is
strong for cancer of the large bowel, for other cancers statistical proof that diet
is a major factor is highly suggestive but has not yet been confi rmed. There are
so many variable factors between people of different population groups that it is
always difficult to prove which particular factor or factors were responsible for
any difference in the incidence of cancer. For example, as well as differences in

2.9 Stomach Cancer

31

diet there may be genetic differences, racial differences, environmental differences, or differences in social habits or customs such as smoking, differences
in the incidence of parasites or infections or even in occupational stress or
psychological factors.
However the different incidences of cancer of some tissues, such as breast
and prostate, between Asians and Caucasians appear to be related to diet.
Traditionally Asians have a diet with a high content of legumes, especially peas
and soybeans. Legumes have a high content of phytoestrogens. Several studies
suggest that this may a significant factor in the relatively low incidence of breast
diseases (including cancer) in Asian females and the relatively low incidence of
prostate cancer in Asian males. This belief is supported by evidence that before
Europeans, with increasing affluence, changed from diets high in plant foods,
including legumes, to present diets high in animal products, the incidence of
breast and prostate cancer was lower than at present and that Asians who change
their diets after migrating to the US acquire an incidence of breast and prostate
cancer, approaching that of other US citizens.
Dietary phytoestrogens may also play a protective role against colon cancer
and pancreas cancer but evidence for this is less clear.
Studies especially from France, Italy and Greece have shown that anti-oxidant
properties of red wine (in moderation) and mono-unsaturated fat properties of
olive oil may also have cancer protective properties, especially in relation to breast
cancer. More recently there has been considerable interest in a substance called
lycopene found in tomatoes and some other red fruits. Lycopene is one of the
beta-carotene anti-oxidants and is responsible for the red colour of tomatoes. Laboratory studies suggest it may have protective properties against a number of cancers
including cancers of the prostate, breast, lung, stomach, pancreas and bowel.

2.9

Stomach Cancer

Early in the twentieth century, cancer of the stomach was much more common
than it is today. The reason for the decreasing incidence is not completely understood but it has been suggested that it may be associated with the increased use
of refrigeration and less use of artificial chemical preservatives such as pickling
and salt curing of meats and vegetables.
Stomach cancer is seven times more common in Japan and Korea than in the
US, Canada, Britain, Australia or New Zealand. This may be genetic or due to
the high consumption of smoked fish or chemical preservatives or other food
additives or both in Japan and Korea.
An interesting comparison is the high incidence of stomach cancer in northern
Iceland where crude smoked salmon is part of the staple diet, compared to a lower
incidence in southern Iceland where the residents prepare their fish differently.
In other studies, a higher incidence of stomach cancer has been found in people who have a highly refi ned starch diet and high animal fat diet as opposed to

Early in the
twentieth century,
cancer of the
stomach was much
more common
than it is today.

32

2

2

Epidemiology

a lower incidence in people who eat a diet with a high content of nuts, grains,
fruit and vegetables.

2.10

Bowel Cancer: Cancers of the Colon and Rectum

In contrast to stomach cancer, for reasons already stated, large bowel cancer is
more common in Europe, the US, Britain, Canada, Australia and New Zealand
than in Asian and African countries. It has been called one of the “Western cancers” and is associated with a Western type diet. In Australia and New Zealand,
after skin cancer, cancers of the colon and rectum are now the most common
cancers in both sexes. As discussed above people who eat little animal fat or
refi ned foods and have a high intake of plant food, crude fibre and roughage
with increased phytoestrogens, have a lower incidence.

2.11

Other Cancers

Several reports have suggested a relationship between high consumption of animal fat with increased risk of several cancers not only bowel, breast and prostate
cancers but, possibly also pancreas cancers.

2.12

Vegetarian Diets

Members of the Seventh Day Adventist Church have a lower than average incidence of most cancers, including cancers of the oesophagus, stomach, pancreas,
prostate, colon and rectum. However, as well as being vegetarians with a high-fibre
and low meat and animal fat consumption, these people are usually non-smokers
and non-consumers of alcohol which may well be more significant. One study
in male members of the Seventh Day Adventist Church found that those church
members whose diet included eggs, cheese and milk had a greater incidence of
prostate cancer than did those who refrained from all animal products.

2.13

Special Dietary Ingredients: Phytoestrogens and Lycopene

All plant foods contain phytoestrogens. Studies now suggest that these, especially
the isoflavone phytoestrogens of legumes, have protective properties against
breast and prostate cancers, as well as colon and possibly pancreas cancer.
In tissue culture and animal models, prostate and breast cancer cells appear
to be especially inhibited by lycopene, the anti-oxidant red-colouring matter of

2.15 Race

33

tomatoes and some other plant products. Laboratory studies also suggest that
increased and synergistic cancer-cell inhibitory properties are achieved if lycopene is used in conjunction with beta-carotenes or vitamin D. Whether lycopene
and isoflavone phytoestrogens might also have anti-cancer synergistic activity is
also under study. Possible clinical or cancer preventive use of these agents used
synergistically is awaited with interest.

2.14

Vitamins, Anti Oxidants and Trace Elements

Direct anti-cancer protective qualities of additional vitamins, anti-oxidants, and
trace elements, are the subject of many claims, counter-claims and special studies.
Some claims of protection and cure with vitamins are undoubtedly exaggerated, but there is some evidence that the anti-oxidant vitamins A and C and
possibly E as well as selenium may offer some protection. More clearly however
there is general agreement that a deficiency of any of these dietary ingredients
will make people more susceptible to health problems including a greater risk
of cancer.
There is a direct relationship between the level of economic development in
a country, its diet and the incidence of cancers, especially large bowel cancer.
In developed Western countries with more dairy products, meat and animal-fat,
and less fibre, large bowel cancer is common in men and women whilst in many
developing countries with more predominantly vegetarian diets, large-bowel
cancer is rarely seen.
However the association of diet with cancers in parts of the digestive system
other than stomach and large bowel is less clear because other factors appear to
be of major significance, especially alcohol and tobacco. For example cancer
of the oesophagus, pancreas and head and neck, as well as the stomach, are all
more common in smokers but the risk is greater if they are also heavy drinkers of
alcohol. In Western countries primary liver cancer is most often seen in alcoholics
with cirrhosis of the liver although in Asian countries it is usually associated with
a history of hepatitis infection.

2.15

Race

Some cancers are more prevalent in people of some races than in other races.
Whether the significant factor is genetic or racial or whether it is more likely
due to environmental factors, diet, social habits like smoking, or other influences
such as the general health and age of the people, is often uncertain.
There are many examples of increased incidence of certain cancers in some
races and some parts of the world. These include a high incidence of stomach
cancer in Japan, Korea, and to a lesser extent in Scandinavia, Holland and
Czechoslovakia, and the high incidence of cancer of the post-nasal space in

34

2

2

Epidemiology

Chinese. There is also a high incidence of cancer of the oesophagus in certain
African tribes including the Bantu in South Africa but not in the white population. There is a high incidence of primary liver cancer in Malaysians, East Asians
and Africans. Europeans and people of European decent have a high incidence
of breast, prostate and large bowel cancer so much so that these are sometimes
known as “The Western Cancers”.
The high incidence of melanoma and other skin cancers in northern Europeans
and especially people of northern European descent, who live in tropical and
sub-tropical climates, is due to genetic factors associated with fair skin that does
not tan readily plus the environmental factor of sunshine.
In Israel, a country with one of the highest incidences of thyroid cancer, the
disease is more common amongst Jews born in Europe than in those born in Asia.
In South Africa, Bantus have a distinctly higher incidence of thyroid cancer than
do blacks from other regions.
Whilst there are genetic influences that predispose people of different races to
develop different cancers, it is hard to know with any particular cancer whether
the most significant factors are genetic or environmental.

2.16

Geographic Associations

The incidence of a particular type of cancer varies from country to country and
even varies within countries according to geographic conditions but it is often difficult to know whether geography is the predominant cause of this difference.
The association of skin cancer and melanoma with fair-skinned people living
in a sunny climate is obvious. The incidence is highest in fair-skinned people
living in sunny climates in Australia and in the sunny southern parts of the
United States. In Australia, not only is there the world’s highest incidence of skin
cancer and melanoma but the incidence varies from state to state. It increases
proportionately with the proximity of the state to the equator. For the more
common forms of skin cancer (squamous and basal cell carcinoma) the incidence is directly related to areas of skin most often exposed to the sun. These
skin cancers thus occur most frequently on the face, neck and on the backs of the
hands and arms. On the other hand, as noted above, the distribution of melanoma
is not closely related to the areas of skin most constantly exposed they are most
common on the trunk in men and on the thighs and lower limbs in women. For
melanoma the association is not especially the amount of direct exposure of skin
to sunlight but the intensity of episodes of acute sunburn, especially if episodes
of sunburn occurred in childhood.
Primary cancer of the liver (hepatoma or hepato-carcinoma) is common in
South-East Asia and East African countries but whether there is a racial predisposition or a dietary or some other environmental factor is not known. However
it is clear that longstanding infection with hepatitis B or C are significant. It is

2.17 Environment

uncertain whether the high incidence of stomach cancer in Japan and Korea is
mainly genetic or dietary.

2.17

Environment

2.17.1

Sunshine

See Sect. 2.7.1.

2.17.2 Air Pollution
In Western societies, city dwellers living in a more highly polluted atmosphere
have a slightly higher incidence of lung cancer than their country cousins. This
factor, however, is not nearly as significant as the smoking habits of the people
concerned. Atmospheric pollution with asbestos in some workplaces in mining
and building industries was, in the past, responsible not only for increased lung
cancer but also for development of an aggressive cancer of pleura or peritoneum
called mesothelioma. This is further discussed below under Sect. 2.18.
Paradoxically, atmospheric pollution may produce a reduction in skin cancer rates
by reducing the amounts of ultraviolet radiation reaching the surface of the earth.

2.17.3

Ionising Irradiation

The increased incidence of leukaemia and some other cancers (including breast,
thyroid and skin cancers) in the survivors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki atom
bomb explosions and the Chernobyl atomic energy plant disaster, confi rms the
environmental effect of ionising irradiation as a cause of some cancers.

2.17.4

Goitre Belts

Cancer of the thyroid is more common in communities where goitre (thyroid
gland enlargement) is common. Goitres are most common in places where there
is a deficiency of iodine in local food and water supplies. Such areas are known
as goitre belts and are usually found in mountainous regions where iodine has
been washed out of the soil over millions of years. Goitre belts are found particularly in the Swiss Alps, the Rocky Mountains, the Andes, the Himalayas and
the mountainous regions of New Guinea. The Great Lakes district in the United
States is also a goitre belt. It is believed that the iodine has been washed out of
the soil in the region into the Great Lakes and lost through the rivers into the

35

36

2

2

Epidemiology

sea. It is also likely that in some areas, after many years of cultivation of crops,
iodine has been leached out of natural soils. Eventually it is transferred into the
sea where fish is a good source of iodine in food.

2.18

Occupation

Present-day industrial laws should protect workers against most industrial
dangers, including the risks of exposure to carcinogens. A number of cancers
were previously linked to working conditions (as discussed), but these have now
been largely eliminated.
Industrial laws compelling stringent improvements in working conditions
now protect asbestos workers from their otherwise high incidence of lung cancer
and mesothelioma.
Another less obvious risk is the increased incidence of cancer in the air
passages under and around the nose (the para-nasal sinuses) in wood workers,
leather workers, metal workers, and especially nickel workers. This is probably
due to constantly breathing small particles of these materials. There was also
said to have been an increased risk of cancer of the larynx in people who misused
their voices, such as old time bookmakers who would shout a great deal in calling
the odds, and in clergymen who would spend hours using a high-pitched chant.
However, if they truly existed, these risks would be very small in comparison to
the risk of cigarette smokers developing the same sort of cancer.

Lung cancer
in cigarette
smokers is
increased ten
times compared
to non-smokers.
Similarly,
cancers in
the mouth
and throat
are closely
associated
with smoking.

2.19

Habits and Lifestyle

2.19.1

Smoking

Certainly the most striking carcinogen in present day society is tobacco. As well
as causing a lot of other health problems the habit of smoking outweighs all other
known influences as a cause of serious cancer in present day men and women.
Lung cancer in cigarette smokers is increased ten times compared to non-smokers
and the risk is directly related to the amount of tobacco smoked and inhaled.
Similarly, cancers in the mouth and throat are closely associated with smoking.
It has been estimated that heavy smokers have about six times the risk of developing cancer in the mouth and throat than non-smokers. The risk is increased to 15
times if the smokers are also heavy drinkers.
In the case of lung cancer, the risk appears to be greater in cigarette smokers
than in pipe or cigar smokers, whereas with mouth cancers there is no apparent
difference whether the smokers use cigarettes, pipes or cigars. Cigarette smokers
are more likely inhale smoke into their lungs but there is a similar risk of tobacco
products entering the mouth with all forms of smoking.

2.19 Habits and Lifestyle

37

Apart from tissues in direct contact with tobacco smoke, a number of other
cancers also have increased incidence in smokers. These include cancer of the
oesophagus, stomach, pancreas, kidney, bladder, cervix and even breast cancer.

2.19.2

Alcohol

Heavy alcohol drinkers have an increased incidence of cancer of the mouth and
throat, oesophagus, stomach, liver and pancreas and breast but the risk is greater
in those heavy drinkers who are also smokers. Alcohol is sometimes considered
to be a co-carcinogen as it does seem to potentiate carcinogenic effects of other
products especially tobacco.

2.19.3 Sun-Exposure
See Sect. 2.7.1.

2.19.4

Betel Nut

The habit of some Asian and Oriental people of chewing betel nut or tobacco leaf
or especially both together, sometimes with lime, is associated with an increased
incidence of cancer in the buccal mucosal lining of the cheek.

2.19.5

Pregnancies and Breast Cancer

The incidence of breast cancer is lowest in women who have given birth to babies
at an early age and have had multiple pregnancies. In communities where the
custom is for women to marry early and have their fi rst babies whilst still in
their teens, the incidence of breast cancer is low, whilst in Westernised societies
where fi rst babies are commonly born to women over the age of 30 years, the
incidence of breast cancer is higher. There may also be some protection against
breast cancer by prolonged breast feeding as is common in most developing
countries, although the evidence for this is less clear. Women who have never
had a child, such as nuns, have the highest incidence of breast cancer.

2.19.6

Cultural and Social Customs

Cultural and social customs may also have a relationship with development of
cancer.
Cancer of the penis is extremely rare in Jewish males who are circumcised
at birth but is occasionally seen in Muslim males who are not circumcised until

Alcohol does
seem to
potentiate
carcinogenic
eﬀects of
other products
especially
tobacco.

38

2

2

Epidemiology

about the age of 10 years. Although not a common cancer, the incidence is greatest
in uncircumcised males.
Nuns, who practice chastity, have a low incidence of cancer of the cervix of
the uterus but an increased incidence of breast cancer. On the other hand, cancer
of the cervix is more common in women who commenced intercourse at an early
age and who have had multiple male partners. Prostitutes are especially at risk of
cervical cancer. The single most significant factor, especially in prostitutes, is the
incidence of the sexually transmitted human papilloma virus.
Women who have taken the contraceptive pill for some years appear to have
a somewhat reduced incidence of developing both cancer of the ovary and
cancer of the uterus. On the other hand, prolonged use of contraceptive pills, and
especially the high-dose oestrogen contraceptive pill formerly used, has been
associated with a slightly higher risk of developing breast cancer. The low-dose
contraceptive pill presently in general use has not been shown to have any significant association with breast cancer, some studies suggest that it may even have
some protective value.
Lifestyle in strict vegetarian, teetotal and non-smoking communities and in
different geographic, economic and racial communities has been discussed.

2.20

Most
psychologists
would not claim
that stress is a
direct cause of
cancer but some
consider that it
may play a part.

Psychological Factors: The Possible Role of Stress or Emotion
in Cancer Development

Among the more unusual theories for causes of cancer has been a suggestion
that like emotional and some mental (psychosomatic) illnesses, cancer may be
triggered by an unnatural suppression of the “fight or flight” response to anxiety or stress. It has been suggested that if a stressful situation persists over a
long period and the person concerned feels that whatever action he or she takes
will be wrong, a subconscious decision to escape through death by cancer may
result. There is no substantial evidence to support such a theory although some
retrospective studies have indicated that a high proportion of cancer patients
have experienced some form of severe stress in the period 6 months to 2 years
before the onset of their illness.
Most psychologists would not claim that stress is a direct cause of cancer
but some consider that it may play a part alongside known chemical, genetic,
dietary, geographic, viral or radiation causes. People become psychologically
disturbed on hearing a diagnosis of cancer and many need additional psychological support by psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, specially trained and
experienced nurses, social workers and other trained medical or paramedical
health workers.
The belief of many “alternative” health practitioners that stress may stimulate
cancer is given as a reason by a variety of such practitioners to support practices
in faith healing, meditation or other alternative treatments.

2.21 Cancer Registries

2.21

39

Cancer Registries

The value of having accurate cancer records in registries kept on a national or
state basis must be stressed. Most countries try to keep registries of cancer incidence categorised by age, gender, race, income, geography, environment, culture
and/or other relevant group, (see Appendix). They do so with different levels of
detail and different levels of success and accuracy. However it is through these
registries that information is gathered that can often lead to valuable indications
of causes of specific cancers, knowledge of people at high risk and introduction
of appropriate public health measures to either prevent such cancers or facilitate
their early diagnosis and treatment. One example is knowledge of the relatively
high incidence of breast cancer in women in Western countries that has lead to
knowledge of lifestyle associations of this cancer and establishment of an awareness among women, especially of the value of mammography screening clinics
and specialised breast-cancer detection and treatment centres. This has resulted
not only in better treatment outcomes but also a greater interest in supporting
research in breast cancer causes, preventive measures and treatment.

The value of
having accurate
cancer records
in registries
kept on a
national or
state basis must
be stressed.

EX ERCISE
List the factors that are known to contribute to an increased cancer risk.

...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................

3

Summary of Practical Measures
to Prevent Cancer

Is this chapter you will learn about:

› Smoking
› Viral and bacterial protection
› Genetic protection
› Skin cancers
› Diets – cancers of stomach, bowel, breast, prostate and thyroid cancer
› Breast cancer – other potential preventive measures
› Industrial cancers
› Ionisingirradiation
› Early detection and treatment of pre-malignant or potentially
pre-malignant conditions

Prevention is so much better than cure. There are many cancer preventive
measures that should become lifestyle habits but one of the most important is
for people to seek medical advice if they have any suspicion of anything going
wrong (Fig. 3.1).

3.1

Smoking

The most obvious preventive measure in reducing the risk of serious cancer is to avoid
smoking. By not smoking, the risk of developing many cancers is greatly reduced.
Even spending frequent long periods in a smoky atmosphere (passive smoking) is
associated with increased cancer risk and should therefore be avoided.

3.2

The most
obvious
preventive
measure in
reducing the
risk of serious
cancer is to
avoid smoking.

Viral and Bacterial Protection

Condoms have been the most practical way of providing an immediate practical protection against the human papilloma virus (HPP). However Professor Ian
Frazer working in Brisbane, Australia, has shown in recent trials that a vaccine

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_3, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

41

42

3

Summary of Practical Measures to Prevent Cancer
Fig. 3.1. People should be
encouraged to seek early
advice about any suspicious
lesion

3

against the human papilloma virus has given a 100% effectiveness in immunity
to the virus that is responsible for most cancers of the cervix and some skin
cancers. Hence in the future people at risk, especially girls and young women
who are sexually active or approaching sexual maturity, will be advised to have
immunization against the human papilloma virus.
Vaccination against Hepatitis B is also a cancer-protective measure. Widespread vaccination programs are currently being conducted in several countries.

3.3

Genetic Protection

Expert advice is now realistically worthwhile for avoiding or reducing the risk
of inheriting or passing on a genetic risk (Chap. 2).

3.4

Skin Cancers

The risk of the common skin cancers – basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous
cell carcinoma (SCC) – can be greatly reduced by avoiding unnecessary direct
exposure to sunshine or other forms of ultra-violet light such as in solariums.
Nature’s protection is pigment in the skin in coloured races. For fair-skinned
people, the use of wide-brimmed hats, long-sleeved shirts and other appropriate
clothing plus ultra-violet filtering skin lotions or creams offers considerable
protection. The same measures may help to avoid melanoma to some extent but,
intermittent and severe episodes of sunburn should especially be avoided by
young people. Sunburn causes permanent damage to the immune defence cells
in skin called Langerhan’s cells.

3.5 Diets: Stomach and Bowel Cancer, Breast Cancer

3.5

Diets: Stomach and Bowel Cancer, Breast Cancer

3.5.1

Prostate Cancer

43

As previously discussed important factors of diet are the proportions of natural
fibre and animal fat and the presence of chemical preservatives or other chemicals
in food. Diets that are high in fibre (including cereals, nuts, grains, fresh fruit
and vegetables) and low in meat, animal fat, highly refi ned foods and chemically
preserved foods, offer some protection against development of stomach, bowel
and possibly pancreatic cancers as well as breast and prostate cancers. Apparently
protective factors may include the dietary amounts of phytoestrogens, lycopenes,
anti-oxidants, certain vitamins and trace elements. These and some other ingredients are under study but as yet no fi rm conclusions can be made.
The amount of fat in the diet, especially saturated animal fat, ideally should be
lower than in most present Western diets. Omega-3 oils present in oily fish (e.g.
salmon, sardines, mackerel, tuna) and soya beans and kidney beans, may have
some protective effect against the development of cancer and also against the
latter stages of some cancers where there is dramatic loss of weight.

3.5.2

Thyroid Cancer

The addition of iodine to the diet (usually as iodised salt) in iodine-deficient “goitre belt”
areas reduces the incidence of goitre and to some degree the risk of thyroid cancer.

3.5.3 Dioxins
Plastic containers of foods and fluids, especially fatty foods, have been under
study as having possible carcinogenic potential. There have been recent recommendations to avoid heating fatty foods in plastic containers in microwave ovens.
It has been recommended that plastic containers are better avoided for long-term
storage of fatty foods; glass or ceramic containers are recommended.

3.5.4

Breast Cancer

Encouragement of breast-feeding may be of some help in reducing the incidence of breast cancer, so too is regular exercise, avoiding obesity, not smoking
and attention to diet. Especially breast-screening is widely encouraged as an
anti-breast-cancer measure. Whilst regular self-examination is encouraged and
may reveal an otherwise unnoticed breast lump women should be advised that
it must not be regarded as an alternative to regular mammography in screening
for early cancer; that is women and doctors too, should not assume that cancer
cannot be present because they have not felt a breast lump (Fig. 3.2).

HRT can
slightly
increase
the risk of
subsequent
development of
breast cancer.

44

3

Summary of Practical Measures to Prevent Cancer

Fig. 3.2. Palpation of breasts in the bath
or shower with wet soapy fi ngers is a
good method of self-examination

3

In the past it was common practice to help relieve post-menopausal symptoms
with small doses of hormone replacement therapy (HRT). It is now known that
if used over 5 years or more HRT can slightly increase the risk of subsequent
development of breast cancer so that if such treatment is now prescribed at all, it
is only to treat postmenopausal women with symptoms that cannot be relieved in
some other way. Even then it is given for a limited period of time only.

3.6

Industrial Cancers

Industrial laws that protect workers from a number of known industrial carcinogenic agents, such as asbestos and certain chemicals especially in the petroleum
and pest control industries, play a significant role in cancer prevention.

3.7

Ionising Irradiation

The lessons of irradiation from atomic bomb explosions and the Chernobyl
atomic plant disaster in causing cancers have been well documented, as has the
need to avoid excessive irradiation from X-ray plants or nuclear energy plants.
There has also been much discussion and study about risks of living near high
voltage wires, microwave irradiation and of mobile telephones (cell phones) but
as yet the studies are inconclusive.

3.8 Treatment of Pre-Malignant and Potentially Malignant Lesions

3.8

Treatment of Pre-Malignant and Potentially Malignant Lesions

3.8.1

Pre-Malignant Conditions

Treatment of any long-standing ulcers or chronically inflamed or irritated lesions
may prevent development of cancer. This may involve such different lesions as
long-standing varicose ulcers and ulcers in the mouth from a jagged tooth. Good
care should also be given for gastric ulcers, persistent gastric reflux, ulcerative
colitis of the colon or rectum, long-standing gallstones, kidney or bladder stones
or chronically discharging sinuses such as from osteomyelitis. Certain skin
lesions may also need attention including a pigmented skin lesion that is chronically irritated by virtue of its position under a belt or bra strap or a pigmented
lesion under a fi ngernail or on the sole of the foot.
Another preventive measure is to remove or otherwise properly treat known
pre-malignant conditions such as polyps, papillomas, hyperkeratotic skin lesions,
leukoplakia in the mouth or moles that show any sign of irritation or change,
especially in irregular dysplastic lesions.
Benign tumours that show any evidence of enlarging or that are known to
have a risk of malignant change, should be removed to reduce the risk of cancer
developing. Such tumours might include dysplastic naevi on the skin, adenomas
in the parotid or thyroid glands, papillomas or adenomas in the breast, cysts in
the ovary, papillomas or polyps in the stomach, colon, rectum or uterus, papillomas in the bladder, or enlarging soft-tissue tumours of fat (lipomas), nerve
tissue (neuromas), muscle (myomas), tumours of blood or lymph vessels (hemangiomas or lymphangiomas) and occasionally of cartilage (chondromas) or bone
(osteomas).
Total removal of the colon and rectum before cancer has developed will
prevent cancer in those people affected by familial polyposis coli.

45

All people
aﬀected
by familial
polyposis coli
will eventually
develop colon
cancer.

Symptoms of Cancer: Local and General

4

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Lump, ulcer, pain, bleeding, interference with tissue or
organ function, unexpected weight loss

› Symptoms of metastatic spread: lymph-nodes, liver,
lungs, bones, fat and muscles, bowel, the brain, the
“unknown primary” syndrome

A symptom is something that is reported or felt by a patient. A sign is something
that can be observed, felt, measured or otherwise demonstrated by another person. Symptoms may result from two effects of a cancer – fi rst the local effects of
the cancer itself, and second, the more general effects of the cancer as it affects
the person’s body as a whole.
Usually local effects are noticed fi rst. The main local effects include one or
more of the following – a lump; an ulcer that does not heal; a persistent cough
possibly with blood stained sputum; persistent local pain; abnormal bleeding
from the stomach, bowel, bladder, vagina or elsewhere; or interference with
function of the organ or tissue involved. Such functional interference may be
seen in obstruction of the bowel in the case of bowel cancer, persistent cough or
interference with breathing in the case of lung cancer, difficulty with swallowing
with oesophageal cancer or difficulty with passing urine in the case of prostate
cancers. These symptoms of local trouble will thus depend upon the site of the
cancer; the organ or tissue in which it started; the type of cancer cells that have
developed; the size of the tumour; and the possible involvement of other organs
or tissues near to the cancer.
The main general effects that may be noticed by a person with cancer are
lassitude, malaise, fatigue and loss of energy, anorexia and weight loss. General
symptoms are usually related to advanced cancers and may result from damage
to, or interference with, function of any organ or tissue involved, as well as the
body’s reaction to the presence of cancer.

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_4, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

49

50

4

4

Symptoms of Cancer: Local and General

In Part 3 each of the above features will be mentioned in more detail in
relation to various cancers, but some general features are outlined below.

4.1

Lump

A lump, swelling or tumour of some sort is present in virtually every cancer but
the lump may or may not be noticed by the patient or be able to be felt by the
doctor. The lump may be obvious if it is in the skin, head and neck (e.g. mouth
or tongue), breast, lymph nodes or fat, muscles or bone (especially in an arm
or leg). On the other hand, most lumps are non-malignant, but if a new lump is
found anywhere in the body it is important to determine what it is. The most
common symptom of breast cancer, for example, is fi nding a lump in the breast.
The lump is often felt whilst the patient is in the bath or shower, because most
breast lumps are more easily felt with wet soapy fi ngers.

4.2

Ulcer

If there is any
doubt about
the origin
of an ulcer
arrangements
should be made
to perform
a biopsy.

An ulcer in the skin that does not heal readily may be a cancer and should be
examined carefully. Skin ulcers are usually noticed easily but ulcers in the mouth
or throat may be less obvious, especially if they are painless. Any such ulcer may
be of potential concern if it has been present for more than 2 or 3 weeks with no
evidence of healing. However, it should be remembered that most long-standing
ulcers are not malignant. Chronic ulcers may be caused by such conditions as
varicose veins or poor arteries giving poor blood supply to the lower legs or by
repeated trauma such as a jagged tooth, ill-fitting dentures or infections in the
mouth. If there is any doubt about the origin of an ulcer arrangements should be
made to perform a biopsy. This involves taking a small piece of tissue, usually
from the edge of the ulcer, and examining it microscopically to be sure exactly
what cells are present and what sort of ulcer it is and what has caused it.

In general, a
small painless
lump is more
likely to be a
cancer than a
small painful
lump.

4.3

Pain

Most cancers are painless in their early stages. Pain may develop after a tumour
has become big enough to invade or to press upon and damage surrounding
tissues or nerves. In general, a small painless lump is more likely to be a cancer
than a small painful lump and people should not wait for pain to develop before
seeking medical advice.

4.5 Weight Loss

4.4

51

Bleeding

Intermittent bleeding can be a feature of many cancers of surface tissues. For
some internal cancers such as the stomach, bowel, kidney, bladder, uterus or
lung, bleeding is often the earliest or one of the earliest features. Any evidence
of abnormal bleeding should be investigated. For example, bleeding from the
bowel may be fresh blood that is bright red or it might be altered blood that is
dark red or black. Other sites of bleeding may be in the urine, from the vagina
(especially between periods or after the menopause), in the sputum (either from
the mouth or throat or from the lung after coughing), from a mole in the skin,
or from a nipple. While bleeding may be an indication of cancer, it does not
necessarily mean cancer; there are many other causes of bleeding. Bleeding or
bruising at several sites or small haemorrhagic spots in the skin ( petechial spots)
may be an indication of a blood disorder including those caused by leukaemias
or lymphomas.

4.5

Weight Loss

Approximately two-thirds of all cancer patients will experience weight loss,
and in many cases this is the first symptom that prompts them to visit their doctor.
An involuntary weight loss of greater than 5% in 6 months is often a prognostic
indicator for cancer.
The weight loss is often associated with anorexia (premature satiety or lack of
interest in food), but this is not the cause, as the weight loss is much more dramatic
than the actual reduction in calorific intake. The weight loss is due to a condition
known as cancer cachexia, and the patients look gaunt and malnourished. Cancer
cachexia is caused by a tumour becoming metabolically adapted to the anaerobic
utilisation of glucose (glycolysis), such that it consumes a lot of glucose and
produces a lot of lactic acid (as muscles normally do under intense activity). The
lactic acid is taken away by the blood and is used in the liver to newly synthesize
glucose (by gluconeogenesis) and requires three times as much energy as that
yielded by glucose consumed anaerobically. In effect glucose becomes part of
a futile and expensive cycle (the Cori cycle) in addition to anaerobic utilisation
representing only ~ 6% of the energy yielded from glucose in aerobic conditions.
With generally a reduced energy intake and an increased energy expenditure (to
recycle the glucose) the body needs energy and it obtains it via breaking down
fat reserves in adipose tissue and proteins in skeletal muscle. Patients can lose up
to 30% of their pre-illness weight, and up to 75% of skeletal muscle protein. It is
the loss of skeletal muscle that leads to asthenia (muscle weakness), which can
affect breathing and heart function, and is often the cause of death. The weight

Weight loss
is due to
abnormal and
ineﬃcient
metabolism
of glucose.
Weight loss is
pre-dominantly
from adipose
tissue and
skeletal muscle,
but it is the
loss of muscle
mass that
causes death.

52

4

4 Symptoms of Cancer: Local and General

loss is not related to the size of tumour because it is directly related to cytokines
(small proteins that act like hormone) produced by either the tumour and/ or the
host immune system. Cancer cachexia is most commonly seen in children and
the elderly, and cancers such as gastric, pancreas, lung and prostate cancers, but
is rare in breast cancer and sarcomas. This involuntary weight loss is associated
with poor prognosis and a poor response to chemo- and radio-therapy.

4.6

Interference with Tissue or Organ Function

These symptoms vary a great deal depending upon the site of a cancer. For
example a cancer in the mouth or throat may make speaking or swallowing
difficult. A cancer of the larynx will usually cause hoarseness or change in voice.
A cancer of the oesophagus is usually fi rst noticed because of difficulty with
swallowing, initially of solid food and later of liquids. A cancer of the stomach
may cause difficulty with eating or a change in appetite or vomiting, and a cancer
of the bowel may cause a change in bowel habits (diarrhoea or constipation
or alternatively intermittent diarrhoea and constipation) or may partially or
fully obstruct the bowel causing colic, in the fi rst instance and possibly bowel
perforation in the second.
Cancer of the prostate may interfere with the passage of urine, and cancer of
the bladder may also cause difficulty or frequency of passing urine.
Cancer of the lung may cause a persistent cough, local obstruction of air
passages or localised pneumonia.
Cancers of the liver, bile ducts or pancreas may block the flow of bile from the
liver, causing jaundice.
Obviously, there are many other causes of these symptoms but if any of them
is noticed for the fi rst time in someone who was otherwise well, especially if the
symptoms persist, they should be investigated promptly and thoroughly.

4.7

Symptoms of Metastatic Spread

These symptoms will depend upon the tissues or organs into which the cancer
has metastasised.
Enlargement
of lymph nodes
may sometimes
be the ﬁrst
feature of the
presence of a
cancer nearby.

4.7.1 Lymph Nodes
A common site of spread is to nearby draining lymph nodes in the neck, axillae,
groins or elsewhere depending on the site of the primary cancer. Enlargement
of lymph nodes may sometimes be the fi rst feature of the presence of a cancer
nearby (see Fig. 22.1).

4.7 Symptoms of Metastatic Spread

4.7.2 Liver
Spread of cancer to the liver may cause jaundice or pain as well as swelling in
the upper abdomen under the ribs on the right side. It may also lead to malnutrition with wasting and weight loss, or to fluid (ascites) collecting in and possibly
filling the abdominal cavity.

4.7.3 Lungs
Cancer that spreads to the lungs may cause a cough, difficulty with breathing,
fever, pneumonia or chest pain.

4.7.4 Bones
Spread of cancer to bones may cause bone pain or a fracture. Metastases in
spinal vertebrae risk spinal cord compression and paralysis. Bone metastases
sometimes cause anaemia due to destruction of the blood-forming bone marrow
tissues and hypercalcaemia may result from release of calcium from damaged
bones.

4.7.5 Fat and Muscles
Metastases to soft tissues may cause swelling or lumps that may be felt under
the skin.

4.7.6 Bowel
Spread to bowel or elsewhere in the abdominal cavity may cause bowel obstruction with colic or swelling and fluid in the abdominal cavity (ascites).

4.7.7 The Brain
Cancer that spreads to the brain may cause severe headaches, vomiting, blurred
vision, confusion, fits or unconsciousness, convulsions or coma.

4.7.8 The Unknown Primary Syndrome
A patient will sometimes notice symptoms associated with a cancer metastasis
without being aware of trouble at the site of a primary cancer. For example a
woman may fi rst complain of a lump in her axilla. A biopsy has shown this not
to be a primary lymph node tumour, but a lymph node containing metastatic
breast cancer, although she was not aware of any breast problem, and no lump
can be felt in the breast. A patient may complain of a lump in the neck that is
found to be caused by metastatic involvement of nodes from a cancer in the

53

54

4

4

Symptoms of Cancer: Local and General

mouth or throat or post-nasal space that has not caused symptoms. Similarly an
enlarged liver with or without jaundice or bone pain may be caused by metastatic
cancer and can cause the patient to seek attention when the primary cancer was
elsewhere but not causing any symptoms. Sometimes a secondary cancer mass
may be noticed by a patient or found by a doctor without any evidence of the site
of the primary cancer – referred to as the “unknown primary” syndrome.

EXERCISE
List patient symptoms that are commonly associated with cancer.

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

EXERCISE
Why are breast lumps often fi rst noticed when women take a bath or shower?

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

Signs of Cancer: Local and General

5

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Lump, ulcer, bleeding and evidence of blood loss,
lymph node enlargement

› Other swellings
› Findings of general examination including examination
of mouth, throat, abdomen, rectum and anus

› Rare and seemingly unrelated indications of cancer

Physical signs of cancer include local lumps or other abnormal swellings, ulcers,
tender or painful areas, evidence of blood loss from bowel, urine, uterus, etc.
and general effects on the patient such as weight loss, pallor, and general unwell
appearance. There may also be evidence of cancer spread to other organs or tissues (metastases). Different cancers tend to spread in a usually predictable way
to different organs or tissues but no matter what signs are present the only proof
of cancer depends on a biopsy demonstrating the presence of malignant cells.

5.1

Lump

It is important to recognise features of lumps that are most likely to be associated with cancer in general and particular forms of cancer. For example, cancer
lumps are usually harder than lumps from other causes. Cancer lumps usually
are not cystic (although on occasions they may be) and they are usually not
tender unless quite advanced. As they enlarge, cancer lumps adhere to and invade
nearby structures and therefore become less mobile.

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_5, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

Cancer lumps
are usually not
tender unless
quite advanced.

55

56

5

5

5.2

Signs of Cancer: Local and General

Ulcer

Malignant ulcers often have raised or heaped up edges. They tend to grow into
nearby tissues on which they lie and there is usually surrounding swelling and
induration. They may bleed easily but usually not profusely. They may or may
not be tender. Ulcers due to skin cancer are usually not tender, whereas malignant
ulcers in the mouth and throat, usually become quite tender in the later stages.

5.3

Bleeding and Evidence of Blood Loss

There may be obvious blood loss or hidden (occult) blood loss with evidence of
anaemia due to chronic blood loss. Blood in the faeces may be detected chemically even when it is not obvious to the naked eye and this may be an early feature
of cancer of the stomach or bowel. In fact occult blood loss is often used as a
screening test for people with a high risk of developing gastric or bowel cancer
even though they may have no symptoms.
Blood in the urine may sometimes be found on microscopic examination of
the urine even when it is not obvious to the naked eye. This can be a feature
of cancer of the kidney or bladder although there are also other more common
causes of blood in the urine.

5.4
Evidence of
metastatic
spread of
cancer may be
revealed by
examination
of the draining
lymph-node
areas.

Lymph Node Enlargement

Evidence of metastatic spread of cancer may be revealed by examination of the
draining lymph-node areas. For example, if a head and neck cancer is suspected
the submandibular, submental and cervical (neck) nodes must be examined
(Fig. 5.1a, b). If breast cancer or cancer of the skin of the arm or chest wall is
suspected, the axillary lymph nodes must be examined. If cancer in the lower
limb or of the skin of the abdomen or lower back, scrotum, anus or vulva, is
suspected the inguinal lymph nodes must be examined.
Abdominal lymph nodes may be involved from cancers of the stomach, bowel,
pancreas, testes, uterus, ovaries or elsewhere in the abdominal cavity but these
are usually not palpable unless very large. Nowadays they are often fi rst seen in
CT studies. Sometimes lymphatic channels allow a tumour to spread from the
abdominal organs to supraclavicular lymph nodes in the neck (usually the left
side), so these too need to be examined; they are easily felt if enlarged. The name
given to a palpable metastatic lymph node in the lower neck from a primary
cancer in the abdomen or pelvis is Virchow’s node. Finding this node to be present is called Trousseau’s sign.
Lymph nodes in the chest may be involved from cancers of the lung or oesophagus or sometimes the breast. Although these cannot be felt with the hands,

5.6 Findings of a General Examination Including Mouth, Throat, Abdomen, Rectum and Anus

a

b

Fig. 5.1. (a, b) Enlarged cervical (neck) lymph nodes that became obvious 3 years after
apparently successful treatment of a squamous cell cancer of upper lip

evidence of mediastinal node enlargement can sometimes be seen in a chest
X-ray or in CT studies.
Lymph nodes may also be enlarged in the lymphomas or leukaemias. If
enlarged, these lymph nodes are usually somewhat rubbery, and less hard than
nodes involved with cancer. They are also likely to be smoother in outline, less
likely to become fixed to other structures and often lymph nodes on both sides
of the neck or lymph nodes in other places may also be involved. The spleen also
behaves like a large lymph node, and although a normal spleen cannot be felt, it
may become enlarged and palpable in patients with a lymphoma or leukaemia.

5.5

Other Swellings

There can sometimes be evidence of lumps or swellings due to metastases in
other parts of the body, especially a subcutaneous lump or a lump in the
abdomen, the liver or any other tissue or organ. Metastases in such sites can
arise from virtually any cancer.

5.6

Findings of a General Examination Including Mouth,
Throat, Abdomen, Rectum and Anus

Part of the examination of the alimentary tract should be an examination of the
mouth, tongue and throat, and most importantly, an examination inside the anus
with a gloved fi nger. Most cancers of the rectum can be felt with a gloved fi nger
in the rectum and many other conditions such as an enlarged or lumpy prostate,

57

58

5

5

Signs of Cancer: Local and General

an enlarged uterus or tumour in the pelvis can be felt by this simple examination
or by a bi-manual examination: a fi nger in the rectum (or vagina) and the other
hand palpating the lower abdomen. Also by examining the glove used, the colour
and nature of the faeces and presence of blood that can be seen and an abnormal
fi nding might give a clue about the possibility of a cancer being present.

5.7

Rare and Seemingly Unrelated Indications of Cancer

Very occasionally an apparently unrelated health problem may be the fi rst evidence of an occult cancer. An unexplained anaemia is the most common, but
a neuropathy or other neurological disorder or the onset of herpes zoster in an
elderly person may indicate a weakened immune response possibly associated
with an undetected malignancy. An unexplained deep vein thrombosis with
no obvious initiating factors may occasionally be the fi rst clinical feature of a
cancer (Fig. 5.2).

Fig. 5.2. A typical outbreak of herpes zoster
(shingles) that was the
fi rst evidence of this
72-year-old man’s cancer
of pancreas

EXERCISE
List patient signs that are commonly associated with cancers.

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

Clinico-Pathology of Cancers

6

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Typing, grading and staging of cancer
› Clinical decisions based on pathology information

The ultimate diagnosis of any benign or malignant tumour will depend upon a
pathologist’s examination of a specimen of tissue. This can be a surface scraping of tissue, a small sample of cells taken by aspiration with a syringe, a small
core of tissue taken with a small core cutting instrument, a small sample of
representative tissue (incision biopsy) taken by a surgeon using a scalpel or other
cutting instrument or even the whole tumour mass (excision biopsy) taken by
a surgeon. The ultimate diagnosis is sometimes not confi rmed until after death
of the patient with specimens taken at autopsy.
No matter how the tissue sample is taken, the pathologist will, if possible,
report on the macroscopic as well as the microscopic features of the tissue
and its cells. Before the pathologist can report on the microscopic features of
the tissue and cells in it, the tissue must be prepared in a solid block, usually a
wax block, so that fi ne sections can be cut. The prepared tissue will be stained
with appropriate stains to best display special features. Unless immediate
cell smears or frozen section specimens (described later in this chapter) are
prepared, most tissue preparations and staining procedures require at least
24 h and usually 2–3 days.
The pathologist will be able to report not only on the type of tissue but whether
it is normal or abnormal tissue and if abnormal, whether it shows features of a
tumour – benign or malignant.
If it is found to be a malignant growth the pathologist will report on the range
of relative normality and maturity of cells in it (i.e. the degree of anaplasia), and
other more abnormal and aggressive features. If possible, a sample of surrounding tissue should be taken with the biopsy specimen so the pathologist can also
report on the degree of invasion or infiltration of cancer cells into surrounding
or underlining tissues.

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_6, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

59

60

6

6

6.1

Clinico-Pathology of Cancers

Typing, Grading and Staging of Cancer

Best management of cancer will depend on many factors including patient factors (age, state of health, family, social and emotional considerations), hospitals
or other treatment facilities with or without specialised nursing care and allied
health professionals, as well as particular factors of the cancer itself.
The cancer factors include three special pathology considerations: the type,
grading and staging of the cancer. These will be made with information provided
by both the pathologist and the cancer treatment team.

6.2

Cancer Typing

The treatment team depends on the pathologist for confi rmation of the presence
of cancer, the cancer type and other features of the cancer. The most common
malignancies are carcinomas from cells of epithelial surface or glandular type
and usually retaining some of the features of these types of cells.
Other malignancies include those of connective-tissue cell origin (sarcomas),
germ-cell origin (testicular cancers and some ovarian cancers) and bloodforming cell origin (leukaemias and lymphomas). Malignancies that do not
readily fit into any of the preceding group types include gliomas of brain and
myeloma, an uncommon tumour that develops in bone but is not of bone cells.
Myeloma or multiple myeloma is a malignancy of plasmacytes in bone.
The pathologist will recognise features of these various types of cells. Often
they are obvious to the expert and closely resemble their tissue of origin but
sometimes there is so much anaplastic change it can be very difficult or impossible to recognise the original cell type. Special facilities such as use of special
stains, electron-microscopy or immunochemistry can be helpful in making a
more accurate tissue typing determination.
In cases where the site or history of an original primary cancer is uncertain
the pathologist might also be of special help in deciding whether malignant
tissue in a biopsy is from a primary cancer or has features indicating that it is
more likely to be metastatic tissue.

6.3

Cancer Grading

Cancer grading gives an indication of the likely aggressiveness of the cancer.
In general, highly differentiated tumour cells that closely resemble their cells of
origin may be either benign or may be very low-grade cancers with little tendency
to grow rapidly or to metastasise early. Whereas poorly differentiated, anaplastic
cancer cells that have often lost all special features of their tissue of origin are

6.4 Clinico-Pathological Staging of Cancer

61

much more likely to behave in an aggressive fashion and invade nearby tissues
as well as to metastasise to other sites.
In general, cancers that remain localised, or invade surrounding tissues by
pushing into them and infiltrating only as a continuous growth, are less aggressive than cancers with cells that break free from the original tissue of origin and
invade more deeply into surrounding tissues.
Nuclear pleomorphism is the degree to which cell nuclei vary in size, shape
and in staining patterns. The more pleomorphic the cell nuclei, the more aggressive the likely behaviour of the cancer.
Along with the number of pleomorphic cells, the number of mitotic figures
(indicating dividing cells) gives an additional indication of the aggressive potential of the cancer.
Sometimes the cancer growth is surrounded to a greater or lesser degree of
infiltration by lymphocytes. Such lymphocytic infiltration may give an indication
of natural body immunological defence against the cancer and therefore a potentially lower grade of cancer than one with no evidence of a protective reaction.
With these features all considered: well differentiated or poorly differentiated
cancer cells, presence or absence of cancer cells separating from the primary
cancer site and infiltrating into surrounding tissues, the degree of nuclear pleomorphism, the number of mitotic figures and the amount of lymphocytic reaction,
the pathologist will be able to give an indication as to the potential for aggressive behaviour of the cancer. That is the grade of the cancer from low grade and
less aggressive to high grade and a potentially more aggressive cancer. This all
depends on a truly representative biopsy sample being made available to the
pathologist. The grade of the cancer may be different in different samples of
tissue. In general the cancer growth pattern is likely to follow the highest grade of
tissue sample rather than the lowest so that the grade report given by the pathologist will depend on the highest grade of cancer tissue seen.

6.4

Clinico-Pathological Staging of Cancer

Cancer type and cancer grading will depend on findings of the pathologist. The
third important pathology information is the staging of the cancer and this will
depend on combined information of pathologist and surgeon or clinical team.
Cancer staging expresses how much the cancer has grown and has spread
from its site of origin. The important elements of the most commonly used clinical staging indices are:
1. Local primary growth: The size of the tumour and the extent of its spread
into local tissues is indicated by the letter “T” and the scale of 1–4; T1 being
a small localised cancer; T4 being an advanced cancer that is destroying
surrounding tissues and unlikely to be curable.

Cancer staging
expresses
how much the
cancer has
grown and has
spread from its
site of origin.

62

6

6

Clinico-Pathology of Cancers

2. Lymph-node involvement: The extent of spread into the nearest local lymph
nodes or more distant lymph nodes in the region is indicated by the letter “N” and
the scale 0–3. NO indicates no lymph node involvement; N1 indicates involvement of adjacent lymph nodes only; N2 indicates that a further set of lymph
nodes is involved; and N3 indicates distant involvement of lymph nodes.
3. Metastatic growth: Evidence of metastatic spread (usually by bloodstream)
into distant organs or tissues is indicated by the letter M and the scale 0–1.
MO indicates no evidence of metastatic growth in distant tissues and M1
indicates metastatic spread into one or more distant sites.
The best prognosis cancers are T1, N0, M0 and the worst prognosis cancers are
T4, N3, M1.
The symbol X is used to indicate an uncertainty of classification. When there
is insufficient information to classify one or more of the clinico-pathological
stages the symbol X is used. TX suggests that there was not sufficient information to make a staging of the primary tumour; NX indicates that node staging was
not known; and similarly MX suggests that evidence for or against the presence
or absence of metastases was not known.
Tumour staging can be based on clinical assessment compiled after all clinical
information is known. This is clinical staging. Alternatively staging may be based on
the pathologist’s examination of tissue biopsies. This is pathological staging. Clinical
staging is more readily available to the examining doctor but ultimate decisions are
better based on pathological staging which should be more accurate.

6.5

Clinical Decisions Based on Pathology Information

All of these pieces of pathology and clinical pathology information together
with knowledge of the habits of cancers of different tumour types will allow the
medical team responsible for the patient’s care, to make an assessment of the
prognosis for the patient as well as the most appropriate treatment schedule and
likely response to treatment. However in each case advice must be modified by
the knowledge that not every tumour will respond in a predictable way. With
few exceptions, advice about likely response should be guarded and given in
general terms only. Usually statistical likelihood is the most appropriate method
of making clinical decisions and in giving clinical or prognostic advice.
Sometimes special tests on biopsy tissue will indicate appropriate treatment
choices. For example tests of breast biopsy tissue for hormone receptor activity,
oestrogen receptor ER or Progesterone receptor PR can indicate a likely response
to hormonal management if positive. ER +ve and PR +ve cancers are more likely
to respond to hormone management than ER −ve and PR −ve breast cancers.
Another more recent test, an immuno-histochemistry test for HER2 growth
receptors, is for likely response of breast cancers to Herceptin. If there is an overexpression of extracellular growth receptors on the cell surface then Herceptin is
recommended for treatment, as it targets the cancer cells for destruction.

6.5 Clinical Decisions Based on Pathology Information

63

EXERCISE
What pathology features help in determining curability or prognosis
cancers?

...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................

Investigations That May be Useful
in Detecting Cancer

7

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Screening tests
› Organ imaging
− X-rays, isotopes, CT, ultrasound
− MRI (magnetic resonance imaging)
› PET (positron emission tomography)
› Indirect evidence of cancer blood and serum tests
› Direct evidence of cancer biopsy

A large range of tests is now available to help detect cancer. Some of the
most useful of these became available only during the last decade or two of
the twentieth century. These range from screening tests, that may help detect
the possibility of cancer in people who are at risk but without any symptoms,
to organ-imaging tests when symptoms are being investigated. Helpful tests
include X-rays, CT scans, ultrasound scans, isotope scans, MRI scans and
PET scans. Each of these may reveal the presence, the site and likely dimensions of a deep-seated tumour. Endoscopic tests that use flexible mirrored
endoscopic tubes allow the operator to look at, photograph and even biopsy
lesions in the alimentary tract, thorax, peritoneal cavity or in other body
cavities. A number of blood and serum tests may reveal evidence of reactions
to a tumour somewhere in the body. The ultimate investigation, however,
is a biopsy because microscopic examination of biopsied material can very
often tell the type of malignant cells and the organ or tissue from which they
originally developed, as well as the degree of anaplasia or potential aggressiveness of the cancer.

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_7, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

65

66

7

7

Investigations That May be Useful in Detecting Cancer

7.1 S creening Programs
Screening programs are simple, non-invasive and relatively inexpensive methods
of detecting early cancers in people in high-risk categories. Early detection before
symptoms or signs of cancer have become evident results in significantly better
prospects of cure. When certain cancers are known to have a high incidence
in a community, governments and health authorities have established on-going
screening programs in many countries.

7.2 S

creening Tests

7.2.1 The Cervical Smear or “Pap” (Papanicolaou) Test
One of the fi rst, and still one of the most useful, specific screening tests is the
Papanicolaou (cervical smear) test for detecting early cancer of the cervix of the
uterus. Cancer of the cervix is the most common cancer of the uterus. Women
over the age of 40 and especially those who have had several sex partners or
several pregnancies are at increased risk for this type of cancer, and many
such women now have a cervical smear test every year. Women who have been
exposed to infection with the human papilloma virus, especially sex workers
who have had multiple male partners, have the greatest risk and should be tested
more frequently. This test has the advantage of being simple, painless, cheap, and
in most cases, highly reliable. In this test a swab or scraping is taken from the
uterine cervix through the vagina. Fluid from the swab or scraping is smeared
over a glass slide and examined for cells. If malignant cells are found, cancer
may be detected early and treated with good results. Other abnormal cells may
suggest pre-malignant changes that could become cancer if not treated, so simple
treatment at that stage can often prevent a cancer developing.

7.2.2 Occult Blood Tests
A number of chemical and other tests have been used to detect small amounts of
blood in the faeces. As stated earlier, blood in the faeces that is not obvious to the
naked eye, is called “occult blood”. Its presence indicates some abnormality in the
stomach or bowel that might be a cancer or possibly a pre-cancerous condition
such as a polyp. Occult blood tests are not always reliable and sometimes produce
false-negative and false-positive results. Positive tests can be caused by a number
of inflammatory or other benign conditions. However occult blood tests can be
useful screening tests to help detect people who are most at risk of cancer and help
determine those in need of further investigation. For people with a high risk of bowel
cancer regular screening of the colon and rectum by colonoscopy is advisable.

7.2 S creening Tests

7.2.3 Gastro -Oesophageal Screening
For people in countries where oesophageal cancer is common, gastro-oesophageal screening by regular endoscopy is advisable. In recent years in Western
countries Barret’s ulcer of the lower oesophagus has become more common. A
Barret’s ulcer is an ulcer in the lower oesophagus associated with long-standing
gastro-oesophageal reflux. An unhealed Barret’s ulcer is now regarded as a premalignant condition requiring regular endoscopic observation for early detection
of a malignant change.

a

b

Fig. 7.1 (a, b). Photograph and illustration of mammography. Small-dose X-rays are taken
with the breast held fi rmly between two plates

67

68

7

Investigations That May be Useful in Detecting Cancer

7.2.4 Breast Screenings: Mammography

7
Although there is no
single screening test
that is totally reliable,
a number of tests
can be combined
to help detect early
breast cancer.

Other than skin cancer, breast cancer is the most common cancer in women
in most Western countries. Although there is no single screening test that is
totally reliable, a number of tests can be combined to help detect early breast
cancer. These include the teaching of self-examination and examination for
lumps in screening clinics by a doctor or specially trained nurse. Mammography, ultrasound studies and biopsy using a fi ne needle or similar instrument
to aspirate or otherwise remove a sample of fluid or cells from any suspicious
lump for microscopic examination, are important screening tests. These are
often performed in special clinics supported by government-funded screening
programs. Most large cities in developed societies now have breast-screening
clinics in a city hospital or elsewhere in conveniently located central positions
(Figs. 7.1 and 7.2).

7.2.5 Skin Cancer Screening: Especially the “Mole Check”
In countries where skin cancer is common, annual “mole checks” are often
arranged for members of clubs or particular workforces. This is now commonly
practised in many Australian surf clubs. Although called “mole checks”, with
particular interest in detecting early melanoma, many “non-mole” pre-malignant

Fig. 7.2. Mammogram showing a
rather dense area of breast with a
cluster of spicules of calcification
suggestive of breast cancer

7.3 O rgan Imaging

or early malignant lesions of skin are detected, especially hyperkeratoses, basal
cell carcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas.

7.2.6 PSA Screening Test
Other than skin cancer, prostate cancer is the most common cancer affecting
men in Western societies. It is not common before the age of 50 but thereafter becomes increasingly common in older men. Previously, digital rectal
examination (DRE) with a gloved fi nger to detect evidence of a hard or lumpy
prostate was the only useful screening test but the prostate specific antigens
(PSA) blood test is now commonly used. The PSA is a simple test in which
a raised level is suggestive of a prostate disorder that might be cancer. PSA
tends to increase naturally with increasing age in all men. At age 50, the upper
level should not be above 3 ng/mL; at 60 it should not be above 4 ng/mL.
Higher levels indicate an abnormality of the prostate, most commonly benign
prostatic hyperplasia, but progressively increasing levels (up to 6, 8 or 10) or
greatly increased levels above about 12 are more suggestive of cancer. Prostate
biopsy might be indicated when there is a progressively rising PSA or when
the initial PSA is significantly elevated, even if no lump or other abnormality
can be detected by DRE.

7.2.7 G enetic Testing
The genetic basis for a familial incidence of some types of cancer such as some
cases of breast, prostate, ovary, and large bowel cancers is becoming better
understood. In most cases, cancers associated with inheritance of abnormal
tumour suppressors and oncogenes tend to appear at an earlier age than those
not found to have an hereditary association.
Genetic testing is time-consuming and, as yet, has not become available for
general cancer screening but there is potential for early detection and cancer
prevention in individuals with a strong family history of a particular cancer.
People found to be at special risk should be referred to special counselling and
risk-management clinics.

7.3 O

rgan Imaging

7.3.1 X -Rays
Radiological studies or X-rays are a relatively old but still useful method of
medical examination for cancer. Techniques are constantly being improved and
the doses of X-rays needed are becoming smaller. X-ray films are only able to

69

70

7

7

Investigations That May be Useful in Detecting Cancer

detect spots or lesions that have different permeability for X-rays than that of
normal tissue in the region. This difference is seen as a relatively light or relatively dark shadow on a film. For example, X-rays pass easily through air in the
lungs or gas in large bowel and this is shown as a dark shadow on a film. If a
tumour is present in a chest X-ray, the X-rays will penetrate the tumour tissue
less well than the air-filled lungs so that the tumour will show as relatively
lighter or whiter part in the area normally showing as dark shadow from the
air-filled lungs. On the other hand, X-rays are blocked by dense bone that shows
as a white area on film. If a tumour is present in bone, the bone destruction may
show as relatively dark or grey areas in the bone that is otherwise white due
to lack of penetration of normal bone by X-rays. Other tissues such as muscle
and fat are intermediate between the dark shadow of air or the white shadow
of bone in their penetration by X-rays. These tissues are of similar consistency
and have similar penetration to X-rays as do tumours so that it is not so easy to
detect tumour shadows in soft tissues by simple X-rays, and more sophisticated
investigations may be required.

7.3.2 Barium (Baryum) and Iodine Contrast X-Rays
Barium (baryum) or iodine compounds and some other materials (often called
“dyes” or “contrast” material) are impervious to X-rays and these are often used
in the body to outline cavities that are otherwise not easily seen in a plain X-ray
film. A barium meal is a barium sulphate mixture swallowed into the stomach.
This outlines the shape of the stomach. If a cancer is present it may show as an
abnormality in the shape or in the outline of the stomach. Similarly, a barium
enema in the lower bowel may allow X-rays to help detect a cancer in the colon
or rectum (Figs. 7.3 and 7.4).
Iodine compounds are also used as “contrast” material as they are excreted
in the urine after injection into a peripheral vein. These may be used to show
the position, shape, size and outline of the kidneys or bladder. This is called an
intravenous pyelogram (IVP) or excretory urogram. Iodine compounds can also
be injected into the bladder or the kidneys from below, through the urethra and/
or the ureters, and X-rays taken. Such X-ray studies of the kidneys are called
retrograde pyelograms or retrograde urograms. Iodine compounds have in the
past been injected into other body cavities such as the fluid-filled space around
the spinal cord, and an X-ray called a myelogram may show some abnormality
of the filling if a tumour is present. Nowadays myelograms have been replaced
by CT or MRI studies.
Some iodine compounds are also excreted in bile into the gall bladder and
bile ducts. X-rays can then be used to outline the shape and contents of the
gall bladder (cholecystogram) and bile ducts (cholangiogram) that again may
show abnormalities if tumours or other defects, such as gallstones, are present.
Injection of contrast backwards up the biliary tree into the pancreatic duct is

7.3 O rgan Imaging
Fig. 7.3. A barium (baryum) meal
X-ray showing a “filling defect” of
the greater curvature of the stomach due to a gastric cancer

Fig. 7.4. A barium (baryum) meal
X-ray showing a “filling defect”
of the greater curvature of the
stomach due to a gastric cancer

71

72

7

7

Investigations That May be Useful in Detecting Cancer

possible if a fi ne tube is passed into the Ampulla of Vater in the duodenum
(through which bile and pancreatic juice normally pass). This test is known
as endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreatogram (ERCP). It is endoscopic
because passage of an endoscope through the mouth and down the oesophagus
and stomach into the duodenum is necessary to insert the fi ne tube into the
duodenal papilla.

7.3.3 R adiographic Screening

A negative
mammogram
in a woman
with a breast
lump does not
in itself negate
the necessity
of having
other tests.

Whereas in years past all X-rays were recorded on a film as still photographs,
nowadays techniques are used to allow the radiologist to study on a television
screen the movement of a radio-opaque material (dye or contrast) such as barium
or iodine in a body cavity. After a barium meal or barium enema the patient is
taken into a dark screening room where the radiologist can change the position
of the patient to allow the radio-opaque material to flow into different parts of
the organ being examined. This manoeuvring helps to visualise more accurately
on the television screen the size, shape, position and outline of the organ under
study, and allows the radiologist to see, for example, if a lump in the bowel is
faeces that can be moved, or tumour attached to the bowel wall.
Air can be used to replace fluid in certain cavities and shows up as a dark
shadow in X-rays. Air is sometimes used in the large bowel together with barium
so that the barium coats onto the bowel wall and the air fills the bowel cavity. This
allows X-rays to show more precisely the shape of the wall of the bowel and any
lump projecting into the cavity of the bowel. This is called an air contrast barium
enema and can be a very useful examination to detect tumours or polyps attached
to the bowel wall. Air can also be used to replace some of the fluid in the cavities
(ventricles) of the brain. This allows X-ray films to detect evidence of some brain
lesions by the contrasting penetration of X-rays passing through air as compared
to a tumour that might be distorting the shape of the brain ventricles. This study
is known as an air encephalogram. This test was used much more often before
CT and MRI scanning facilities became widely available.
In most cases, the X-ray density of a cancer is similar to the X-ray density
of surrounding tissues and X-ray films alone are unlikely to show evidence of
a deep-seated cancer. For cancers that are not so deep-seated, however, such as
breast cancer, X-ray (mammograms) can be used to detect any small differences
in penetration of the tissues that may indicate the presence of a cancer.

7.3.4 M ammography
A mammogram is a special X-ray of the breast that may show the presence
of cysts, dense fibrous tissue, or a cancer in the less-dense fatty tissue of the
breast. Small amounts of X-rays only are needed so this examination is safe if
not used excessively. Although mammograms produce some false negatives and

7.3 O rgan Imaging

some false positives they are nevertheless very useful, safe and inexpensive in
screening for breast cancer. However even the small doses of X-rays needed for
mammography are better avoided in women who may be pregnant or wish to
have further pregnancies as even this exposure to irradiation can cause genetic
mutation of foetal cells or of actively functioning ovarian tissue. This usually
means that mammography is not routinely recommended in women younger
than 40.
It is important to appreciate that, like any other test, a mammogram is not
infallible. A negative mammogram in a woman with a breast lump does not in
itself negate the necessity of having other tests such as ultrasound and, more
importantly, a fi ne needle biopsy.

7.3.5 C hest X-Ray
Chest X-rays are most useful investigations for detecting abnormalities in the
lungs, including tumours, which may show as white opacities within the dark
air-filled lungs (see Figs 11.1a, b, Figs. 11.2a, b). Sometimes the size and shape
of the lungs, or the tissues between the lungs (the mediastinum), may be altered.
Lymph nodes in the chest are grouped around the midline between the lungs.
If lymph nodes are enlarged as in the lymphomas, the normal mediastinum or
central area of white density in a chest X-ray may be widened.

7.3.6 Ske letal X-Rays
These will show the outline of bones and give an indication of their density.
Primary cancer of bone (i.e. cancer starting in the bone, called osteosarcoma)
may sometimes be seen as an abnormal shape and abnormal density of one part
of the bone, usually towards one or other end of a long bone. Sometimes a primary bone cancer may give a “sunray-like” appearance in an X-ray. Secondary
(metastatic) cancers in bone usually show as rounded less-dense areas in the bone
due to local destruction of bone tissue. They may sometimes show as fractures
in damaged bone (a form of pathological fracture). Some metastatic cancers
containing calcium may even show as rounded areas of increased density in the
bone. However, X-rays are not infallible and will not always detect malignant
lesions in bone, especially if the lesions are small.

7.3.7 An giography
Radio-opaque materials (dyes) may be injected into arteries, veins and even
lymph vessels for films to be taken or for immediate viewing on a television
screen. The radiologist can then determine whether the vessels are in their normal position or whether they may have been pushed aside by a lump of some

73

74

7

7

Investigations That May be Useful in Detecting Cancer

Fig. 7.5. An angiogram taken during injection
of an iodine compound into the upper end of
the femoral artery. A mass in the lower thigh
is seen to flush with blood due to a vascular
sarcoma seen to be distorting the normally
straight femoral artery. Such vascularity in a
tumour is known as a “tumour blush”

sort, which may be a cancer. Some cancers also develop a distinctive blood
supply showing, with this technique, as a cluster of small blood vessels called
a “tumour blush” (Fig. 7.5).
Modern angiography has allowed arteries in virtually every part of the body
to be outlined by radiographic (X-ray) techniques and may be helpful in detecting
and treating deep-seated tumours.
Lymphangiography, by injecting radio-opaque “dyes” into lymph vessels,
will also allow X-rays of the lymph nodes to be taken to determine whether they
are enlarged or partly replaced by abnormal tissue that may be cancer.

7.3.8 Isotope Scans (Nuclear Scintigraphy)
Isotope scans have some similarity to X-rays in that the shadows of a radioactive
source are recorded on a film plate. In this case the radioactive material is injected
into a peripheral vein and is distributed in the bloodstream. The radioactive dose
used is very small. The radioactive material is made of, or combined with, various
agents depending on which organ or tissue is to be examined. Radioactive iodine,
for example, is concentrated in the thyroid gland and the amount of uptake, size,
shape, position, and consistency of tissue in the thyroid gland can be determined
from such a test. Another such material, called technetium, is concentrated in bone,
particularly in areas of the bone with cellular activity or growth. Thus a bone scan

7.3 O rgan Imaging

Fig. 7.6. Radio-isotope bone scans showing many metastatic cancer deposits in bones
(dark spots). The patient had advanced metastatic prostate cancer

will not only outline the position, size and shape of bone but will also show areas
of abnormal cellular activity that may be due to cancer (Fig. 7.6).
Similar scans are used to outline the size, shape and any abnormal activity in
the liver and spleen. In these organs, cancer may show up as one or more areas
of decreased activity.
Similar radioisotope scan tests are now available for a number of other organs
or tissues including the brain, lungs and lymph nodes. An isotope of gallium can be
used to help delineate between normal and abnormal patterns of lymph nodes.
Scanning is carried out with the patient lying on a special table. Apart from a
needle prick to inject the material into a vein, it is quite painless.

7.3.9 CT Scan or CAT Scan (Computerised Axial Tomography)
In the early 1970s British workers developed a technique in which small doses
of X-rays were used to construct a picture of tissues in a cross-section of the
trunk, head and neck, or limbs. Many cross-sectional pictures of the abdomen
for example, are taken, thus allowing a three-dimensional image concept to be
developed. The position, size and shape of all the organs, major blood vessels,
bones and muscles in the abdomen can be seen and the position, size and density
of any abnormal tumour can often be assessed with considerable accuracy. CT
scanning requires highly specialised equipment and skilled personnel and is

75

76

7

Investigations That May be Useful in Detecting Cancer

7

Fig. 7.7. CT scan showing a cross-section of both thighs with a large sarcoma in one thigh

therefore relatively expensive in comparison to standard X-rays. CT scans have
proven to be of great value in investigating cancers and tumours in otherwise
inaccessible areas of the head, abdomen, chest and limbs.
CT scanning is carried out with the patient lying on a table and, like other
types of X-rays, it presents no discomfort to the patient except for the need to lie
still for several minutes on a thin foam mattress in a relatively confi ned space
(Fig. 7.7).
EX ERCISE
What advantages do CT scans have over plain X-rays, and what
disadvantages

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

7.3 O rgan Imaging

77

7.3.10 U ltrasound Scans
X-rays, nuclear scans and CT scans all depend on penetrating X-rays and gamma
rays. Although the small doses now required are safe if used with proper care,
there are occasions when even these are probably better avoided. One of these
situations is during pregnancy because the developing foetus is highly sensitive
to irradiation. The ovaries and testes of people of reproductive age are also better
not irradiated even with small doses of radiation.
In more recent years, use of ultrasound waves has been developed to give a
somewhat similar cross-sectional picture of body tissues and organs as does the
CT scan. The ultrasound waves are quite harmless and can be safely used in the
region of a pregnant uterus or active ovaries. The principle depends upon sound
waves being reflected or bounced back in different degrees by body tissues of
different densities somewhat like a radar or a depth sounder.
The degree to which sound waves bounce back depends on the nature or
qualities of the underlying tissues. The principle is similar to that used by fishing crews to detect schools of fish or oceanographers to measure the depth of
the ocean floor. It is certainly not a new or original physical adaptation of sound
waves. Dolphins use a similar system to locate schools of fish. The same principle
is used by bats flying in the dark.
Ultrasound scans in general do not give as much information as CT scans
but for some lesions, for example cysts, they are more accurate in showing the
position and type of lesion. This is especially true in examining breasts of young
women because the ultrasound shows more information in the more dense breast
tissue of younger women. It is also completely safe in studies during pregnancy
or ovulation. Hence they may be used as an alternative to CT scans in some situations or in conjunction with CT scans in other situations.
Like taking X-rays and CT scans, ultrasound examinations are carried out
with the patient lying on a table with a small handpiece moving over the patient.
The procedure is harmless, painless and causes no discomfort.
EX ERCISE
Under what circumstances would ultrasound be preferable to
mammography in breast examination?

...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................

78

7

7

Investigations That May be Useful in Detecting Cancer

7.3.11 MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging)
A MRI scan shows tissues on cross sectional images similar in appearance to
those of a CT scan although based on quite different principles of physics.
The images are based on computer analysis of absorption and penetration of high
frequency radio waves by water molecules in a strong magnetic field. There is
no exposure to X-rays or other damaging forms of irradiation. In some parts of
the body and in some body tissues such as in bone, muscles and in the brain and
spinal cord an MRI scan may show more detail and provide more information
than a CT scan but in other situations a CT is preferred. Whereas a CT scan only
shows pictures horizontally, with MRI pictures can be taken from almost any
angle. MRI scanning is now recognised as the preferred method of imaging of
musculo-skeletal structures and of intra-cranial and spinal cord investigation. In
some situations both CT and MRI studies are used. They may complement each
other by giving different information about the size, shape and other characteristics of a tumour and its possible extent of spread into surrounding tissues.
The scan is usually performed as an outpatient procedure. The patient must
lie still. It is painless and no anaesthetic is required, except possibly in children
to keep them perfectly still. Since the procedure is conducted in a powerful magnetic field it is important for the patient not to wear jewellery or metal objects.

7.3.12 PET (Positron Emission Tomography) Scan
The PET scan is the most recent of presently used non-invasive studies – that
is studies that do not require an instrument to be put inside the body or for a
piece of biopsy tissue to be removed or a surgical operation. At the time of writing this innovative but very costly equipment is available only in a relatively
small number of centres where intense research studies are being carried out to
determine exactly how it can help in the diagnosis and treatment of cancers and
other serious medical conditions.
PET scans are quite different to X-rays, CT or MRI studies. X-rays are used to
produce films that are shown as black/white shadows with shades of grey. These
are inexpensive and readily available but do not give nearly as much information
as CT or MRI scans. Both CT and MRI scans give more three dimensional
information about the position, size, shape and consistency of tumours or lumps
deep to the surface and their position in relation to other tissues like arteries,
nerves, muscles, bone and important organs. They are also produced in black
and white pictures with shades of grey. They are based on laws of physics using
penetration of X-rays and radio waves under different conditions including a
change in magnetic fields in the case of MRI.
Although PET scans produce three-dimensional pictures that may be in black
and white or in colour, they are based not so much on laws of physics but on
different chemical activity in different types of tissues and different cells. The
basic principle is that cancer cells use more glucose than normal cells. They

7.4 Endoscopic Examinations: Rigid and Flexible Scopes

79

demonstrate areas of activated uptake of glucose which is a feature of cancer
cells. PET scanning therefore represents functional as opposed to anatomical
imaging. PET scans are often able to show something of the activity of the
cancer such as its rate of growth and any changes made to the cancer by treatment given. For some cancers, such as lung cancers, they are better able to show
whether the cancer has spread (metastasised) to other places. For lymphomas they
are better able to show the extent of the disease. They may also indicate whether a
cancer has totally responded to treatment or whether it might be starting to recur
after treatment.
PET scanning is a very safe study but it is expensive. The equipment costs the
equivalent of several million dollars. Because it is not yet known what help it can
give that cannot be given by less expensive methods, many more studies must be
made and costs contained before PET scanning can be made more widely available. However in the United States PET scanning it is now recognised as a unique
tool in cancer investigation and is supported fi nancially by health authorities.
More recently combined imaging of PET and CT or PET and MRI have been
used to more precisely demonstrate both anatomical and functional activity of
cancer deposits.

7.4

Endoscopic Examinations: Rigid and Flexible Scopes

7.4.1 R igid Scopes
Most people are familiar with a dentist using a mirror to examine the back of
the teeth and the stereotypical image of a doctor using a head mirror to reflect
light waves into the mouth to examine the throat, larynx, or back of the nose.
The principle of using mirrors and lenses with a light source to examine the
inside of body cavities has been extended and refi ned to remarkable degrees of
precision, that were inconceivable a few decades ago. Previously, non-operative
examination of the inside of body cavities was limited to the larynx, trachea
and air passages (bronchi), oesophagus, stomach, rectum and lower large bowel,
bladder and vagina, through rigid or semi-rigid tubes. These are still useful
methods of examination as they allow ready visualisation of these organs. They
are reasonably simple to use, cheap to buy and are readily available both in
doctors’ surgeries and hospitals.

7.4.2 Si gmoidoscopy
Although largely replaced by more flexible colonoscopes, old-fashioned readily
available rigid metal sigmoidoscopes are still used in isolated country practices
and developing countries. Examination of the rectum and lower bowel by a

Some internal
organs such as
the oesophagus
or prostate
may be well
examined
for presence
of cancer by
the use of an
ultrasound
probe passed
through a
scope.

80

7

7

Investigations That May be Useful in Detecting Cancer

sigmoidoscope can still be a valuable examination for large bowel cancer. More
than half of all large bowel cancers are within reach of a rigid sigmoidoscope.
Sigmoidoscopy can be performed in a doctor’s surgery without anaesthesia and
a biopsy of any suspicious tissue can be taken at the time of examination. Some
precautions are fi rst taken to empty the bowel of faeces. During the examination
the patient usually lies on one side and the sigmoidoscope is passed through the
anus. The instrument is fitted with a small light and air is blown into the bowel
to inflate it and so open up the lumen or bowel cavity. This air and the passage
of the instrument are uncomfortable but not unbearable.

7.4.3 Pr octoscopy
Examination of the anus and lower rectum can be carried out quite simply in a
doctor’s surgery with a small metal tube-like instrument called a proctoscope
or anal speculum. Although it does not penetrate far into the rectum, it is fitted
with a small light and can be useful for detecting or treating lesions in or near
the anus such as haemorrhoids or cancer of the anus, which is rather rare.

7.4.4 V aginal Speculum
A vaginal speculum is a metal instrument that allows a doctor to examine the
walls of the vagina or cervix of the uterus in the surgery without significant
discomfort to the patient.

7.4.5 Laryngoscopy and Bronchoscopy
The larynx can be examined indirectly with a mirror in the doctor’s surgery
but a more direct examination of the sensitive larynx or main air passages is
usually carried out with a rigid laryngoscope or bronchoscope in hospital under
general anaesthesia.

7.4.6 O esophagoscopy
Similarly, in the past, examinations of the oesophagus were usually carried out
in hospital under general anaesthesia using a rigid oesophagoscope.

7.4.7 C ystoscopy
The bladder too may be examined with a rigid cystoscope usually in hospital
under general anaesthesia

7.4 Endoscopic Examinations: Rigid and Flexible Scopes

7.4.8 E cho-Endoscopy
Some internal organs such as the oesophagus or prostate can be examined
for presence of cancer by the use of an ultrasound probe passed through a
scope. The combined use of scope and ultrasound probe is referred to as
echo-endoscopy.

7.4.9 F lexible Scopes
In recent years advances have seen great progress made in fitting a series of
lenses and mirrors and a light source to flexible fibre-optic endoscopes and
colonoscopes as well as a great variety of flexible scopes to replace many of the
rigid metal scopes previously used.

7.4.10 Gastroscopy or Endoscopy
Skilled gastroenterologists can pass the modern gastroscopes or endoscopes
without general anaesthesia. Provided the patient is suitably sedated these instruments are passed with little discomfort. They allow examination, not only of the
oesophagus and stomach, but also of the fi rst part of the duodenum. Through
the duodenum and at the ampulla of Vater they also allow examination of the
opening of the bile duct from the liver and gall bladder and the pancreatic duct.
Radio-opaque material (dye) can be injected into these ducts allowing ERCP
X-rays to be taken for more detailed examination.

7.4.11 C olonoscopy
The colonoscope is similarly a flexible instrument that can be passed through
the anus and around the whole length of large bowel to allow examination
of all the length of the large bowel. The instrument can be used to remove
pre-malignant polyps or to take biopsies of a suspected cancer. Special
preparation is required to empty the bowel clear of faeces before the colonoscope is used. This instrument may be passed without undue discomfort if
the patient is well sedated, although for some patients general anaesthesia
may be preferred.
A less invasive bowel examination is by virtual colonoscopy in which the
bowel is prepared as for a colonoscopy, an enema mixture is given and the colon
is scanned by CT. Anaesthesia is not required and accuracy of detection of colorectal lesions is probably comparable but if a lesion is detected and biopsy or
removal of a polyp is required a true colonoscopy is still required.

81

82

7

7

Investigations That May be Useful in Detecting Cancer

7.4.12 Laparoscopy (Peritoneoscopy) and Thoracoscopy
The body cavities – the peritoneal cavity and the pleural cavities can also be
examined by passing an instrument called a laparoscope (or peritoneoscope) or a
thoracoscope through a small incision into the cavity. This is carried out under
general anaesthesia in the operating theatre. Through these instruments the surgeon
can examine the contents of the body cavities. First a harmless gas (CO2) is used
to fill the peritoneal cavity to separate movable organs and allow manipulation of
the instrument between loops of bowel and other tissues and viscera. The examiner
may be able to take biopsies if suspicious lesions are seen. Special equipment is now
available to carry out some surgical operations using similar scopes with surgical
instruments passed through a second or third small opening in the abdominal or
chest wall. Some cancer operations can be carried out in this way.

7.4.13 C uldoscopy
Culdoscopy is a similar examination of the pelvis. The instrument is passed
into the pelvic cavity through a small incision made in the top of the back wall
of the vagina.

7.5

Indirect Evidence of Cancer

Blood tests may show either direct or indirect evidence of cancer.

7.5.1

Blood and Serum Tests

Haemoglobin and red cell count (RCC)
Most cancers eventually cause some degree of anaemia, which manifests as
decreased haemoglobin and red blood cell counts but some tumours might be
quite advanced before this becomes apparent.

7.5.2 White Cell Count (WCC)
The total white cell count might also show a reaction to some types of cancer
but most significantly the number and type of white cells might be the fi rst direct
indication of leukaemia.

7.5 Indirect Evidence of Cancer

83

7.5.3 Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR)
The ESR is an index of blood sedimentation and increases with elevation of
certain proteins in the blood due to ill-health. Many organic disease processes,
including cancer, are associated with a raised ESR, but apart from giving an
indication of the severity of disease, the test can be useful in giving an indication of response to treatment given. If a raised ESR falls after cancer treatment
it suggests that the treatment has been effective although it cannot be regarded
as a guarantee of complete cure.

7.5.4 S erum Biochemistry
Some types of cancer are likely to change biochemical components in the blood.
For example cancer of the prostate gland may cause an elevation of the enzyme
serum acid phosphatase, advanced breast cancer may cause elevation of serum
calcium and a particular type of large bowel cancer, papillary adenocarcinoma,
may cause loss of potassium from the bowel resulting in fall in serum potassium. Cancers in the liver may cause a degree of liver failure which may also
be detected in changes in serum biochemistry after checking that the patient is
not suffering from cirrhosis.

7.5.5 T umour Markers
The potential for using biological tumour markers to help detect early cancer or
recurrent cancer is constantly under study. Many tumour markers are now useful in determining the presence of cancer. Some are already in regular clinical
use with varying degrees of reliability. The most regularly used are the PSA
for prostate cancer (as previously discussed); the carcino-embryonic antigen
(CEA) test for cancers of the alimentary tract, especially large bowel cancers;
and the alpha-foeto-protein (AFP), a test for primary liver cancer and germ-cell
cancers and the CA125 test for ovarian cancer. Useful markers in detection of
germ-cell cancers are AFP, human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) and lactate
dehydrogenase (LDH). No doubt further tumour markers will be found to be
clinically valuable in detecting early cancers as well as in determining response
to treatment or tumour recurrence.
Tumour markers are also used to estimate the success or otherwise of treatment of the cancer. A fall will indicate a good initial result of therapy but a subsequent rise might indicate the presence of recurrent or residual cancer either at
the original tumour site or elsewhere.

Valuable and
reliable tumour
marker tests,
indicating
the presence
or absence
of speciﬁc
cancers will be
available for
more speciﬁc
clinical use in
the not too
distant future

84

7

Investigations That May be Useful in Detecting Cancer

7.5.6 T he Future

7

As yet, no tumour marker test is totally reliable on its own, but a great deal
of work is being carried out in this field. The major issue is one of specificity
and sensitivity being inversely related – the more specific the criteria (higher
concentrations) for a tumour marker the less cancers are identified, and these
pre-dominantly are more advanced, conversely the less specific criteria identify
more cancers but there will be more false positves.
It seems certain that valuable and reliable tumour marker tests, indicating the
presence or absence of specific cancers, will be available for more specific clinical use in the not too distant future.

7.6

Direct Evidence of Cancer

7.6.1 B iopsy
The ultimate test for cancer is in the tissue biopsy in which a piece of tissue is
taken from a suspected cancer and examined microscopically. Provided a truly
representative sample of tissue is taken, examination of the cells in the biopsy
specimen will usually allow the pathologist to determine not only whether a cancer
is present, but also the type of cancer, the tissue of origin of the cancer and even the
degree of malignancy. In some cancers the biopsy may also give a good indication
of the most appropriate treatment and likelihood of a cure being possible.
Ideally a biopsy is taken before any treatment, including surgical treatment, is
started. This helps the clinical team to decide upon most appropriate treatment.
Often biopsies are also taken by a surgeon during an operation. Usually the
surgeon will take a small representative sample of a suspected cancer (incision
biopsy) or if the tumour is small the surgeon may remove the whole tumour for
examination (excision biopsy). Sometimes the surgeon will biopsy tissues or an
organ nearest to the cancer to be sure that it does not have cancer cells spread
into it, that is to be sure of a “clear margin” of tissue free of cancer (Fig. 7.8).
A number of techniques have been developed to help make a diagnosis by biopsy.
EX ERCISE
List features of microscopic appearance that suggest a biopsy shows a
highly malignant tumour.

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

7.6 Direct Evidence of Cancer

a

85

b

c

Fig. 7.8. Diagrams illustrating microscopic features of (a) normal prostate gland, (b) changes of
early “in-situ” or “latent” prostate cancer and (c) more advanced, invasive prostate cancer.

7.6.2 Needle Aspiration or “Punch Out” Biopsy
For some tumours – as for example, some lumps in the breast, a special needle
can be inserted into the lump to aspirate or suck out sufficient cells or tissue for
biopsy examination. There is also a special needle called “Trucut” with a “punch
out” mechanism that allows a small core of tissue to be “punched out”. This might
be done under local anaesthesia without admission to hospital or sometimes a
general anaesthetic may be required. Provided a representative specimen is taken
and an expert team is readily available to examine the specimen, a diagnosis
might be made rapidly with little disturbance to the patient.
Needle aspiration or “punch out” biopsy may now be used for a number of
different types of tumours in a variety of other tissues such as the prostate gland,
the liver, the thyroid gland, or deep-seated tumours in the limbs or in the chest.

86

7

Investigations That May be Useful in Detecting Cancer

7.6.3 A spiration Cytology

7

This is similar to aspiration biopsy except that it applies to the examination for cells
in cysts or other fluid. A cyst in the breast or elsewhere may be aspirated and by
special preparation the contents are examined for the presence of malignant cells. If
malignant cells are found, a positive diagnosis of cancer can be made. If, however,
no malignant cells are found there may still be some doubt as to whether cancer is
present and a further biopsy may be necessary. It is still possible that cancer cells
could be in the cyst or adjacent lump but not in the sample of fluid taken.

7.6.4 Bone Marrow Biopsy
A similar aspiration technique is used to obtain specimens of bone marrow,
which is especially important in determining the presence and type of any
suspected leukaemia. Bone marrow biopsies can also be valuable in confirming
the presence of metastatic cancer in bones.

7.6.5 S tandard Paraﬃn Section Biopsy and Frozen Section Biopsy
Preparation and staining of a biopsy specimen for microscopic examination
usually takes several days. The tissue is prepared embedding it in a wax block
and staining it to reveal special features of the cells. In some circumstances it
may be important for the surgeon to know the diagnosis immediately, so that
any necessary cancer operation can be completed without delay. An experienced
pathologist can often make a diagnosis without delay by using the technique of
frozen section. In a frozen section examination the biopsy specimen is prepared by
immediately being frozen solid so that it can then be finely sliced. Fine slices are
then stained with a simple stain and examined microscopically. The pathologist
may then be able to give the surgeon an accurate diagnosis within a few minutes.
If the patient is anaesthetised and prepared for operation, the surgeon may then be
able to completely remove any cancer at the same operation. Frozen-section techniques are now highly accurate for most cancers if used by skilled pathologists,
but for some cancers it may not be possible to determine an accurate diagnosis
until special pathology sections embedded in wax have been prepared some days
later. Sometimes a variety of special stains or even other tests, such as immunohistochemistry tests, using antibodies against tumour markers, are needed.
EX ERCISE
List the most useful investigations that help in establishing a diagnosis
of cancer.

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

Treating Cancer

8

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Can cancer be cured? An outline of prognostic factors
› Methods of treatment
› Surgery
› Radiotherapy, including brachytherapy
› Chemotherapy – anti-cancer drugs
› Hormone therapy
› Immunotherapy
› Cell mediated anti-cancer activity
› Other treatments under study
› General care
› Supportive care and supportive care teams
› Psychological and spiritual help
› Follow up care
› The specialty of palliative care
› A“ lternative medicine”

8.1

Can Cancer Be Cured? An Outline of Prognosis

Although cancer is a frightening word, it is a fact that in modern developed
societies most cancers are cured. The possibility of cure of a cancer depends upon
a number of factors, especially the tissue from which it has grown and the type
of cancer cells in it, the size and position of the tumour in the body, the degree
of abnormality of the individual cancer cells, the structures into which the cancer
may have grown and the presence and site of any metastatic spread. The age and
general health of the patient are also significant. The patient’s natural defence
reactions may be highly significant although, as yet, not clearly understood and
not yet able to be measured with any confidence.
Many of the most significant factors will depend upon how quickly the cancer
is detected and treated. A small cancer detected early and before it has spread
or involved other tissues may be eminently curable whereas the same cancer

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_8, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

87

88

8

8 T reating Cancer

neglected, perhaps for some months, until it has enlarged and spread to other
sites, may be quite incurable.
Many years ago a great American pathologist, Arthur Purdy Stout, said:
“The best chance of curing cancer lies in the hands of the therapist who makes
the fi rst attempt”.
Nowadays this should be paraphrased as:
“The best chance of curing many advanced and aggressive cancers lies in the
hands of the team of therapists that makes the fi rst attempt”.
That is, a cancer that has recurred after a failed attempt at treatment is more
difficult to cure than it would have been at the fi rst attempt. The quality of treatment given to the patient, especially in the initial treatment, is a most important
factor in determining whether or not a cure is likely. For difficult cancers, this is
often now best achieved with integrated treatment and a team approach.

8.2

In Western Societies More Cancers are Cured than Not Cured

This is certainly true because the most common cancers are basal cell cancers
of skin and squamous cell cancers of skin. Not only do these cancers grow relatively slowly and spread relatively late, if at all, they are usually obvious to the
patient and doctor when they are quite small, and if properly treated at that stage
they are eminently curable. Even the more aggressive and dangerous pigmented
skin cancer, the melanoma, is usually eminently curable in its early stages. With
people becoming more aware of the danger of any change in a pigmented mole,
or other dark spot on the skin, most melanomas are now detected before they
have spread. If properly treated at this stage they are effectively cured.
All this is good news but, even better, is the fact that even excluding skin
cancers, more cancers can now be cured than not cured.
The common cancers of the breast and bowel and cancers of the uterus are
usually curable now that methods of early detection are widely practised. It is
most important that these cancers should be detected early as the outlook is so
much better if treatment is initiated when these cancers are small. For this reason,
a great deal of effort has been spent in establishing cancer screening clinics to
detect potentially curable cancers before they reach an incurable stage. This is
now likely to need a diagnostic and therapeutic team effort.
Cure can now be expected for most cancers in the head and neck region,
including the lips, mouth and throat, larynx, salivary glands and thyroid gland.
Until fairly recently, cancers that develop in cells scattered widely throughout the body tissues, such as the lymphomas and leukaemias, were considered
incurable but with modern treatment methods, increasing numbers of patients
with these malignancies are being cured including the majority of children who
develop leukaemias.
The most common internal cancer in men, prostate cancer, can now usually
be diagnosed at a curable stage. However because most of these cancers are

8.3 Methods of Treatment

89

slowly growing and not necessarily life threatening during the patient’s otherwise expected lifespan, there may be uncertainty as to whether radical treatment
to establish a cure is justified. Sometimes the outlook without curative treatment
does not justify the severe side effects of curative treatment, especially in elderly
men with other health problems.
The outlook for germ-cell cancers of the testis underwent dramatic change
over the last two to three decades of the twentieth century. From being cancers
with a poor prognosis except when treated at a very early stage, most are now
cured when treated with combined and integrated therapy programs using modern
chemotherapy, radiation therapy and surgery.
Integrated treatment methods have also improved the curability of a number of
other cancers including more advanced head and neck cancers, sarcomas, especially in limbs, and previously high-risk stomach and breast cancers.
Cancers with the worst prognosis (least likely to be cured) are often those that
develop in deep body tissues and are usually not obvious until they have spread to
lymph nodes or other tissues. These include cancers of the oesophagus, pancreas
and lung. Hence the search for methods of earlier detection of these cancers.
Other cancers with poor prognosis include those in organs that cannot be easily
dispensed with such as the liver or a major part of the brain.
With modern endoscopic techniques, stomach cancer can now also be detected
at a curable stage. In Japan, where this cancer is common and screening tests are
becoming a routine, most are now diagnosed at an early stage and are cured.

8.3

Methods of Treatment

The three mainstays of cancer treatment are surgery (meaning operative surgery), radiotherapy and chemotherapy.

8.3.1

Principles of Treatment of Potentially Curable Regional Cancers

The main principle of treatment of any new and potentially curable cancer is to
treat one step beyond the apparent limits of the cancer.
With an inflammatory condition, such as an acutely inflamed appendix, only
the appendix needs to be removed to cure the condition. Similarly in treatment
of benign lesions such as benign cysts, adenomas or polyps, only the lesion needs
to be removed. Best treatment of cancer however, requires surgical removal of
more than just the apparent cancer. Tissues adjacent to the cancer into which
cancer cells might have spread are also removed. Similarly if treatment involves
radiotherapy, it is given to tissues beyond the apparent edge of the cancer, that is
tissues into which microscopic cancer cells might have spread. Chemotherapy is
often given in addition to surgery and/or radiotherapy if the cancer being treated
is one that has significant risk of having already spread beyond the local primary

The main
principle of
treatment of
any new and
potentially
curable cancer
is to treat one
step beyond the
apparent limits
of the cancer.

90

8

8 T reating Cancer

site or region being treated even though there may be no evidence of more distant
spread.

8.3.2

Surgery

The discipline of surgery is that part of medicine and medical practice that is
likely to involve need of a surgical operation. The word surgery is also often
used to mean operative surgery and it is in this context that the word surgery is
used in the following paragraphs.
Before the discovery of general anaesthesia and the fi rst use of ether as a
general anaesthetic by Dr Crawford Long in America in 1842, operative surgery
was very primitive but nevertheless it was the only available effective cancer
treatment.
Early use of general anaesthesia for operative surgery was followed by
rampant cross infection with a high mortality rate. The situation changed after
the discovery of micro-organisms in infected wounds by great world scientists
Pasteur in France, Koch in Germany, Semmeilweiss in Hungary and Lister in
England (Fig. 8.1).
These changes in operating under general anaesthesia with aseptic conditions allowed operative surgery to develop and progress to what it is today. Thus
operative surgery became the fi rst widely used effective and generally applicable
anti-cancer treatment.
Surgery was thus the fi rst effective form of cancer treatment. It is now used
to establish a diagnosis, to effect a cure or in some advanced or incurable cases,
to give good palliation and relief of symptoms. When possible the surgeon’s
primary objective is to excise the cancer in its entirety, together with all adjacent
tissues into which cancer cells may have spread. For many cancers, especially
for early skin cancers and small cancers on lips or in the mouth, surgery offers a
relatively simple, straightforward, quick and effective method of eradicating
cancers. A complete cure can be expected without any residual problem. For
more advanced cancers that have spread to or are likely to have spread into draining lymph nodes, the surgeon removes not only the primary cancer but all the
draining lymph nodes likely to be involved. The primary cancer and lymph nodes
are best removed in continuity in one block of tissue where this is feasible. This
is called a “block dissection” and a high incidence of long-term cure can also be
expected. If a great deal of tissue has to be removed, the surgical team may need
to do some form of plastic or reconstructive surgical procedure to leave as little
defect or deformity as possible. The surgical removal of a tumour is also the most
effective cure for the cancer associated weight loss (cancer cachexia), as the
cellular source of the abnormal metabolism driving the weight loss is removed.
Used alone successful surgery depends upon establishing diagnosis and treatment early in the disease and before the cancer has spread into tissues that cannot
be resected with the primary cancer.

8.3 Methods of Treatment

a

b

Fig. 8.1. (a) Operative surgery before 1842. (b) Lister using lysol spray to help create
asepsis in an operating theatre

91

92

8

8 T reating Cancer

For breast cancer that is confi ned to the breast with possible early involvement
of lymph nodes in the axilla, the most common surgical treatment over the past
100 years has been total removal of the affected breast and lymph nodes from
the axilla as one block of tissue. This operation, called a radical mastectomy, has
cured many women with breast cancer over the years but nowadays less radical
operations have been equally successful.
For deep-seated cancers the whole or part of the involved organ is usually
excised together with nearby draining lymph nodes. Such has been standard
treatment for cancer of the stomach, colon, rectum, uterus, ovary, oesophagus,
lung, and sometimes the pancreas. For some the cure rate by surgery alone has
been good but for others the cure rates by surgery alone have been dismal.
Sarcomas in limbs tend to recur locally in the limb unless widely excised and
sometimes the best chance of cure by surgery, especially for big sarcomas, has
been by amputation of the affected limb. Newer techniques of combined treatment (discussed later in this chapter) have reduced the need for amputation in
many cases.
EXERCISE
What are the possible objectives of surgical operations in treatment of
cancer?

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

8.3.3 Radiotherapy
Radiotherapy is the second oldest effective form of treatment for cancer but has
been clinically available only since about the year 1900 following the work of the
Curies in France and Dr Roentgen in Germany. Treatment depends upon the sensitivity of dividing cells being destroyed by X-rays or gamma rays emitted from
a radioactive source. Treatment, equipment and computer assisted techniques are
constantly being improved with improved results in eradicating cancer cells and
causing minimal damage to surrounding tissues and cells (Fig. 8.2).
Radiotherapy has the advantage of avoiding a surgical operation but in many
cases treatment over 5–8 weeks is required. Radiotherapy has the disadvantage
of causing some damage to normal tissues and cells covering and surrounding
the cancer in the area treated (the irradiation field). The radiotherapist must have
the patient in a correct position so that the radiation beams will include the whole
tumour in the irradiated field with minimal exposure of normal tissue. This will

8.3 Methods of Treatment

93

Fig. 8.2. Photograph of a patient
ready for treatment with supervoltage external radiotherapy

allow greatest destruction of tumour cells with as little as possible damage to
surrounding normal tissues and cells.
Radiotherapy alone is effective treatment for many skin cancers, some head
and neck cancers and for some deep-seated cancers that cannot be totally removed
by surgery. It is also used as a palliative treatment to give relief by reducing the
size of some cancers that cannot be cured by surgery or other means.
The dose of radiotherapy used is critical and must be given by experts. Too
little will not destroy cancer cells but too much will destroy normal tissues and
may result in loss of tissue sometimes with painful ulceration of overlying skin
which may not heal, and other long-term local problems such as damage to an
underlying lung or other tissue. The dose is also cumulative, that is, that once
radiotherapy has been given to a part of the body in a therapeutic dose it cannot
ever be given again to the same site without risk of serious tissue damage.
The actual administration of radiotherapy is quite painless although it may
leave some skin changes, like an erythema resembling sunburn, and may make the
patient feel listless and tired, adding to his or her feeling of depression. Depression is a natural feature of having a cancer. Radiotherapy sometimes adds to the
depression but it usually improves when active treatment has been completed.
Although the red flush of skin change settles a few weeks after radiotherapy,
some minor skin changes with small, visible blood vessels called telangiectasia
are often a permanent feature of an area that has in the past been irradiated.

Radiotherapy is
now often used
in combined,
integrated
treatment
programs,
especially with
surgery and/or
chemotherapy.

94

8 T reating Cancer

8.3.3.1

8

Brachytherapy

Brachytherapy is a form of radiotherapy in which radio-active needles or “seeds”
are inserted into a tumour to give a measured dose of irradiation directly to
the cancer. The dose of irradiation given by such needles (withdrawn after the
required dose has been administered) or “seeds” (left permanently in place in
the cancer) is critical. It is also critical to place the radioactive material in such
a position that all of the cancer tissue receives a satisfactory dose of irradiation.
Traditional external irradiation can more reliably cover the needed irradiation
field but will irradiate surrounding tissues. Brachytherapy will more specifically
deliver a dose of irradiation into the cancer but has a greater risk of missing some
of the outlying cancer cells. In some clinics, combined use of these two forms of
radiotherapy can be used in treating some cancers. In some clinics brachytherapy
or combined external irradiation with brachytherapy is becomingly increasingly
used in treating prostate cancer when there is a localised limited cancer focus.
Results are now believed to be equivalent to radical surgery but with the advantage of fewer side effects.
Radiotherapy is now often used in combined, integrated treatment programs,
especially with surgery and/or chemotherapy. For many advanced and aggressive cancers combined and integrated treatment will effect cures that would have
been unlikely by using one treatment modality alone. This is why it is becoming
increasingly important for patients with aggressive or advanced cancers to be
seen by clinicians working in cooperative multidisciplinary teams.

EXERCISE
What are the advantages and disadvantages of treating a cancer by
brachytherapy as opposed to external radiotherapy?

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

8.3.4 Chemotherapy (Cytotoxic Drug Treatment)
Doctors, scientists and others have been searching over the centuries for chemical
substances that might cure cancer. The fi rst effective such treatment was
reported by Dr George Beatson from the Glasgow Royal Cancer Hospital early
in the twentieth century. Dr Beatson reported that oophorectomy (removal of
the ovaries) depressed growth of some breast cancers. Hormonal management

8.3 Methods of Treatment

95

of breast cancer followed that observation. Next was a report in 1941 by two
Americans doctors, Charles Huggins and Clarence Hodges that some prostate
cancers responded to treatment with the female hormone stilboestrol. Four years
later in 1945 it was fi rst observed that a gas that had been used during World War
I, destroyed dividing cells, and so nitrogen mustard was discovered as being a
drug that could be used clinically against cancer cells in patients. This was the
beginning of modern anti-cancer chemotherapy. Since that time a large number
of effective anti-cancer drugs have been developed. These drugs have their
greatest effect on dividing cells and because cancer cells are more constantly
dividing than normal cells, they are more likely to be affected than normal body
cells. The present anti-cancer drugs are grouped or classified according to how
they affect dividing cells (Fig. 8.3).

Fig. 8.3. Diagram illustrating the sites of greatest activity on dividing cells of some of
the anti-cancer agents

E XE R C I S E
Why are cancer cells more likely to be affected by chemotherapy than
normal cells?

...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................

96

8 T reating Cancer

8.3.4.1

8

Anti-Cancer Drugs

Just as details of surgical procedures must be left to trained surgeons and the
details of the best use of radiotherapeutic procedures must be left to specialist
radiotherapists, so too details of best use of anti-cancer agents are highly complex. The use of complex anti-cancer agents is best guided by experts who are
appropriately trained and experienced in their use. However some knowledge
of the agents most commonly used should be helpful as a basis for further
understanding.
The number of anti-cancer drugs is constantly increasing as newer agents
with more selective actions against particular tumour types are discovered.
In general they are grouped as:
Antimetabolites. This group of anti-cancer agents predominantly interfere
most with synthesis and metabolism of DNA and, to some extent, RNA. They
include methotrexate, 5FU (5-fluorouracil), cytarabine, gemcitabine and 6MP
(6 mercaptopurine).
DNA damaging agents. These include alkylating agents like cyclophosphamide
and ifosfamide and melphalan; antibiotics like adriamycin, actinomycin D and
bleomycin; nitrosoureas (such as BCNU and CCNU) and platinum derivatives
like cisplatin and carboplatin.
Mitosis inhibitors. This group includes vinca alkaloids (like vincristine and
vinblastine) and taxanes (Taxol).
Cancer cell enzyme inactivators. This is a new class of anti-cancer agent recently
discovered and undergoing much research. The fi rst, code-named STI 571 (trade
name Gleevec or Glivec), is the enzyme tyrosine-kinase inhibitor. Tyrosinekinase is an essential for cancer cell reproduction. STI 571 was fi rst found to
counteract the Philadelphia chromosome of chronic myeloid leukaemia and, in
treating this leukaemia, results have been very encouraging. STI 571 is now being
used in trials of treating other cancers, particularly with certain gastrointestinal
stromal cancers and renal cancers, with encouraging results. There may be a
place for similar management of some breast cancers and prostate cancers.
All eﬀective
anti-cancer
drugs presently
available have
side eﬀects.

Unfortunately all effective anti-cancer drugs presently available have side effects
that affect some people more than others. Some become manifest early as acute
toxic side effects. Some are long-term or late side effects and may not be apparent
for months or even years. Until all adverse side effects of such agents are well
understood experienced specialists should oversee their clinical use.
8.3.4.2

Using Combined Anti-Cancer Agents

In treating cancers, the specialist cancer clinician (oncologist) selects drugs that
are known to be effective against the type of cancer being treated with least
possible damage to normal body cells. In general, appropriate combinations of
effective drugs are more effective than large and increasingly toxic doses of

8.3 Methods of Treatment

97

Fig. 8.4. Diagram indicating the principle of use of multiple agents in combination
in treating a cancer rather than using larger and more toxic doses of just one agent.
As illustrated, provided the drugs are known to be active against the type of cancer
being treated, a selection of two or more agents should have increased activity against
the target cancer cell. It is like hitting the cancer cell in two or more places at the same
time. It is safer to avoid using drugs with the same side effects so that normal cells are
less likely to be damaged by multiple agents

one drug only. Much research is constantly being carried out to discover the
most effective and safest combinations and dose and timing schedules of drugs
against different types of cancer with minimal damage to normal dividing cells
(Fig. 8.4).
8.3.4.3

Time and Concentration of Anti-Cancer Cytotoxic Drugs
on Diﬀerent Cancer Cell Types

Another aspect of the use of anti-cancer drugs is the sensitivity of the cancer
cells being treated in relation to the length of time of their exposure to the drugs
and their relative sensitivity to drug concentration. For example 5FU is generally more effective if given by continuous infusion over several days whereas
melphalan seems to have a greater impact given in greater concentration over
a shorter period, possibly an hour or so. Similarly cancers of different types
respond differently to different periods of exposure and to different concentrations of agents. Gastrointestinal cancers and mouth and throat cancers seem to
respond best to continuous prolonged drug exposure over days or weeks whereas
melanoma responds best to a more intense concentration of agents that can
only be given over a short period. There is still much to be learned about dose,
combinations, length of time of exposure and concentration of agents to achieve

There is also
much to
be learned
about when
anti-cancer
cytotoxic
drugs are best
integrated with
radiotherapy
or surgery.

98

8

8 T reating Cancer

greatest effect on the type of cancer being treated with minimal side effects.
There is also much to be learned about when anti-cancer cytotoxic drugs are
best integrated with radiotherapy or surgery.
8.3.4.4

Palliative Chemotherapy

The most widely applied use of the anti-cancer drugs is in treating widespread
cancers or cancers that for one reason or another cannot be treated effectively
by surgery or by radiotherapy. Although some drugs will, on occasions, cure
some widespread cancers, in general this form of treatment is palliative.
Palliation means that the cancer may be reduced in size and the patient may be
given relief of symptoms for some time, but almost invariably the cancer will
re-develop sooner or later, at which time it will be more resistant to anti-cancer
agents. Eventual death from the cancer is likely.
Palliative chemotherapy, by reducing the cancer, will usually prolong life and
should make the patient more comfortable. Sometimes, however, because of the
inconvenience and problems associated with treatment and the possible distress
of side-effects (see “side effects” below) there is doubt as to whether palliative
chemotherapy is worthwhile. In each case the medical attendants should discuss
the likely benefits and possible problems with the patient and members of the
patient’s family before a fi nal decision is made about having this form of treatment. Although it is the doctor’s responsibility to give informed advice, the final
decision as to whether to have palliative chemotherapy should be made by the
patient. If doubt exists in the patient’s mind about the desirability of having such
treatment, a trial course of treatment may be appropriate, that is, that treatment
be commenced with the proviso that if the patient fi nds treatment too distressing,
treatment can be modified or stopped at any time.
8.3.4.5

Adjuvant Chemotherapy

Adjuvant chemotherapy is chemotherapy given following surgery or radiotherapy and is used to treat cancers where it is known there is a significant risk
that scattered cancer cells may be present somewhere even though they cannot
be detected.
The most proven value of adjuvant chemotherapy is in treating women who
have had a breast cancer treated by surgery (mastectomy, segmentectomy or
lumpectomy) or a combination of surgery and radiotherapy to the breast region.
These are patients who have certain prognostic factors that suggest that, although
undetectable, there is a significant risk of some cancer cells already having spread
beyond the treated region. Adjuvant chemotherapy is also given as part of the
treatment for people (usually young people) who have had bone cancer (osteosarcoma) treated by surgery. The surgery may have been amputation of a limb.
Post-operative chemotherapy is now standard even with small osteosarcomas
because there is a high risk that some cancer cells will have already escaped from
the local tissues and formed micro-metastases in the lungs. Treatment of ovarian

8.3 Methods of Treatment

99

cancers and some colo-rectal cancers also now often includes administration of
adjuvant chemotherapy to get best long-term results.
8.3.4.6

(a)

Systemic and Regional (Intra-Arterial) Chemotherapy

Systemic chemotherapy

The most convenient and simplest way of giving a measured dose of chemotherapy is by intravenous delivery, either by bolus injection or by slow infusion
into a vein. After intravenous delivery, drugs are distributed by the bloodstream
more or less equally to all parts of the body and should affect cancer cells
wherever they may be.
Whilst surgery is limited to treating cancers localised in a particular region
that can be excised, and radiotherapy is limited to treating cancer cells in a limited radiation field, chemotherapy is generally given systemically, that is, to treat
the body as a whole. Some anti-cancer drugs can be given by mouth but most
are given by intravenous injection or infusion. This method of chemotherapy is
likely to be the most effective as adjuvant therapy when there is a significant risk
that there may be widespread cancer cells remaining somewhere after a primary
cancer has been eradicated.
(b)

Regional (intra-arterial) chemotherapy Fig. 8.5

When cancers appear to be limited to one particular body region and that region is
supplied with blood by one particular artery, it is sometimes possible to concentrate
anti-cancer drugs to the cancer by injecting or infusing the drugs directly into the
artery supplying blood to the cancer. This is called regional or intra-arterial chemotherapy. The initial activity of the agents is concentrated in the tissues supplied
by the artery infused before most of it flows into the systemic circulation and then
functions as systemic chemotherapy. An alternative to this intra-arterial infusion
chemotherapy is intra-arterial perfusion chemotherapy, with regional vascular
isloation. With perfusion chemotherapy, carried out under general anaesthesia, a
“closed circuit” pump is often used and the part containing the cancer (usually a
limb) has its circulation separated or isolated from the general circulation. A high
dose of the drugs is thus concentrated in the isolated tissues containing the cancer
without flowing into the general circulation where in such high concentration they
would cause severe toxicity. This is a form of delivery used in treating some cancers
that may be confined to a limb but respond only to a high concentration of an anticancer drug, such as some cases of melanoma or some limb sarcomas.
8.3.4.7

Other Regional Chemotherapy

Chemotherapy is sometimes used to achieve a greater regional effect by intrathecal or intra-ventricular injection, or by intrapleural or intraperitoneal injection. Some drugs do not pass the blood/brain barrier so that to be effective

It is sometimes
possible to
concentrate
anti-cancer
drugs to the
cancer by
injecting or
infusing the
drugs directly
into the artery
supplying
blood to the
cancer.

100

8 T reating Cancer
Fig. 8.5. Diagram illustrating the principle of
intra-arterial chemotherapy. If all active anti-cancer
agents are infused into a small artery that supplies
the cancer with all its blood (illustrated in the
bottom of the diagram) the cancer will be exposed
to a greater initial concentration than if the agents
are infused into the venous circulation. Infused
into the venous circulation they will be distributed
more or less equally but in lower concentration
to all body tissues. The value of this technique
depends on the agents used being active in the
form in which they are given. Some agents, e.g.
cyclophosphamide, need to be activated by passage
through the liver so that for them intra-arterial
infusion has no advantage. For some other agents
exposure over a prolonged period of time may be
of greater importance than a more concentrated
exposure

8

against tumours in the brain they must be given intrathecally (i.e. directly into
the cerebro-spinalfluid). Some drugs can be effective in treating skin cancers
when incorporated into creams or ointments for local (topical) application.

EXERCISE
Under what circumstances might there be potential advantages in delivering
chemotherapy to a cancer by the intra-arterial route?

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

8.3 Methods of Treatment

101

Intraperitoneal chemotherapy is a form of regional chemotherapy that can be
useful in treating some intra-abdominal cancers. The activity of the agents is
fi rst concentrated in the peritoneal cavity but some is then absorbed into the
general circulation as systemic chemotherapy.
8.3.4.8

Combined Integrated Treatment

For relatively small and uncomplicated localised cancers that can be readily and
effectively treated by surgery or radiotherapy, these forms of treatment are best
used in a straightforward and usually simple fashion.
For some cancers, however, surgery alone or radiotherapy alone or even surgery and radiotherapy together may not be able to cure most of the patients. Or
possibly, a surgical operation required to eradicate the cancer may be so mutilating as to be unacceptable to the patient. In these circumstances, better results
can sometimes be achieved by combining surgery and/or radiotherapy and/or
chemotherapy.
Present-day treatment of some breast cancers is an example of a widely
accepted use of combined treatment. Often nowadays, for women with moderately advanced breast cancer, the breast and axillary lymph nodes are removed
surgically and radiotherapy is given to the breast region after surgery. Nearby
lymph nodes if not removed at operation may be treated by radiotherapy. However adjuvant chemotherapy is given systematically to control any cancer cells
that may have escaped further than draining lymph nodes into the circulation
and could be the seeds of future metastatic growths in distant organs or tissues.
With such combined and integrated treatment programs survival rates have
been improved considerably.
Treating advanced cancer of the cervix is an example where statistics
have now shown improved survival rates for women treated by integration of
chemotherapy with radiotherapy and surgery rather than by radical surgery
alone.
8.3.4.9

Induction Chemotherapy

Induction chemotherapy (sometimes called neoadjuvant, primary, initial, basal,
or reducing chemotherapy) is chemotherapy given before any other treatment in
order to induce tumour changes. In treating some cancers that appear to remain
localised to the site of origin but which are so advanced locally that they are
unlikely to be cured by surgery or radiotherapy alone, induction chemotherapy
given fi rst can reduce the size and extent of the cancer. This may make it possible
to totally remove the reduced tumour either by surgery or using with radiotherapy
or using a combination of both.
The primary advantage of administering induction chemotherapy is to allow
the chemotherapy to flow into the cancer before its vascularity has been compromised.
Both surgery and radiotherapy will damage blood vessels and compromise blood

Both surgery and
radiotherapy
will damage
blood vessels and
compromise blood
ﬂow through
tumours.

102

8

8 T reating Cancer

flow through tumours. If the chemotherapy flows through undamaged arteries
supplying the cancer with blood, the cancer should be maximally affected and
reduced in size and viability, thus improving the chance of success by subsequent
surgery or radiotherapy as well as being immediately effective as systemic preoperative adjuvant chemotherapy.
If induction chemotherapy can be given by regional infusion, directly into
the tumour arterial supply, with its greater concentration, it should have an
even greater impact on the primary cancer and most of it will still flow off
throughout all body tissues and should be effective as immediate systemic
“adjuvant” chemotherapy. This means that both the concentrated induction
chemotherapy reducing the primary cancer and the immediate pre-operative
systemic adjuvant effect on possible micro-metastases are given to best advantage. Hopefully in this way the primary cancer is reduced and small undetected
clusters of cancer cells distant from the primary site are completely or partially destroyed before curative surgery or radiotherapy of the primary cancer
is carried out. Work investigating this form of combined treatment is showing
encouraging results especially in treating some cancers in the head and neck
(including the mouth and throat), some stomach cancers, some breast cancers
and some cancers and sarcomas in limbs.
In treating locally advanced cancers whether or not induction chemotherapy
can be given by regional infusion there should be an advantage in giving at least
some chemotherapy before surgery. This should reduce and destroy as much of
the cancer as possible whilst its blood supply is still intact, and avoid waiting for
a surgical or radiotherapy procedure to be completed before adjuvant chemotherapy is started.
8.3.4.10

Using
chemotherapy
and radiotherapy over
the same treatment period,
has been shown

Side Eﬀects of Chemotherapy

The risk of using cytotoxic anti-cancer drugs that cells in normal tissues may be
damaged. Expert supervision should ensure maximum damage to cancer cells
and minimum damage to normal cells and normal body tissues.
Because cancer cells are the most constantly dividing of all cells, they are
more susceptible to chemotherapeutic agents than normal cells. However, a number of cells in normal tissues are at risk because they also divide frequently.
These include blood-forming cells (in the bone marrow), surface skin and growing hair cells, mucosal cells lining the mouth, throat, stomach and bowel, and
cells lining the air passages.
The most serious acute or short-term side effect of most anti-cancer agents
is a fall in the white cells or platelets in the blood – this may lead to reduced
ability to resist infection or to bleeding problems (granulocyte stimulating factor or G-CSF, stem-cell infusion and bone marrow transfusion are methods of
helping to correct this side-effect in more severe cases). Hence regular blood
counts are taken and doses of drugs may need to be adjusted. Other common
acute side effects are mouth and throat ulcers, nausea and vomiting, hair loss,
or bleeding from the bowel. Whilst some side effects are common, provided the

8.3 Methods of Treatment

patient survives their toxicity, almost all of them are reversible and they abate
after drugs have been stopped.
A small number of anti-cancer drugs may affect function of the heart, lungs,
kidneys, central nervous system or peripheral nerves, but these effects are not
often seen because they are unlikely to occur with normal doses of drugs. Even
so, it is still necessary to watch closely and stop treatment at any sign of these
problems. With proper supervision by oncologists, the risk of very serious problems is small (Fig. 8.6).
If chemotherapy is infused intra-arterially or otherwise given regionally, the
risk of damaging local tissues with local or regional side effects will be greater
because the chemotherapy is concentrated in tissues near the cancer that are supplied by the artery that is infused. Such regional infusions should be given only
by clinicians experienced in these techniques.

Fig. 8.6. Major side effects of different anti-cancer agents are often
different. This chest X-ray shows
pulmonary fibrosis that developed
as a serious side-effect in a patient
being treated with bleomycin

Fertilisation and Pregnancy
Cells in the ovaries of young women and cells in the testes of men are constantly dividing to produce ova or spermatozoa for potential reproduction and
development of a new embryo. If chemotherapy is necessary for such people,
they are advised to avoid pregnancy during treatment and for at least 12 months
afterwards due to the risk of abnormal ova or spermatozoa. There is even a
risk of permanent sterility. In the case of young males, keen to become fathers,

103

to be more
eﬀective than
using the two
treatment
modalities
separately.
However
potential
damage to
surrounding
normal tissues
is also greater.

104

8

8 T reating Cancer

spermatozoa can be produced and kept in cold storage (in liquid nitrogen) before
chemotherapy is started so that it can be used for fertilisation at a later date.
Sometimes it may also be possible to take and store ova from young females
before commencing chemotherapy. These can be fertilised and implanted into
the uterus at a later date if subsequent cancer treatment has been successful.
Late or long-term side effects of chemotherapy have been less apparent than
the more acute side effects and in fact not all long-term side effects have been
confi rmed. Such delayed side effects as impairment of hearing or balance, bone
marrow dysplasias and delayed haematological toxicity are becoming well
documented although fortunately they are not common. Prolonged use of some
anti-cancer drugs can even cause a second cancer. All alkylating agents can be
associated with bone marrow dysplasia (myelodysplastic syndrome) or rarely
acute leukaemia. This small risk is highest with the alkylating agent melphalan.
A second group of drugs (the topoisomerase II inhibitors doxorubicin, epirubicin,
etoposide, teniposide etc) can also be associated with a mild increased risk of
myelodysplastic syndrome or acute leukaemia. The risk of leukaemia is further
increased when chemotherapy is combined with radiotherapy.
8.3.4.11

Concomitant Chemotherapy and Radiotherapy:
The So Called “Sandwich Treatment”

Using chemotherapy and radiotherapy over the same treatment period, has been
shown to be more effective than using the two treatment modalities separately.
Some chemotherapeutic agents e.g. cisplatinum, appear to sensitise cells to
radiotherapy. Although responses in the cancer are likely to be significantly
greater, it is apparent that the potential damage to surrounding normal tissues
is also greater, thus greater regional side effects. Programs for such concomitant
treatment schedules are under study but until further clarified they should be
used with great care and limited to experts in specialised cancer centres. Some
reports of using intra-arterial chemotherapy concomitant with radiotherapy in
treating locally advanced primary and secondary melanoma masses have also
been encouraging but because there is potential for serious tissue damage such
treatment schedules must be restricted to specialised centres.

8.4

Other Important Treatments

8.4.1

Hormone Therapy

8.4.1.1

Breast Cancer

Since 1896 when Dr George Beatson observed regression of breast cancer after
removal of the ovaries, it has been shown that in a number of women, especially
young (pre-menopausal) women, breast cancer is to a greater or lesser extent

8.4 Other Important Treatments

dependent upon the female sex hormone oestrogen. Just as removal of the major
source of the patient’s own circulating oestrogen (by oophorectomy) results in
regression of breast cancer in many patients, giving more oestrogen to women
with breast cancer can result in the cancer growing more rapidly. Removal of the
ovaries is still sometimes used in treating cancer of the breast in pre-menopausal
women (i.e. women with active ovaries) if the cancer is widespread or is so
advanced that it cannot be cured by surgery or by radiotherapy. Unfortunately,
removal of the ovaries or other hormone treatments rarely, if ever, results in
complete cure, although it often results in a period of worthwhile regression.
When the cancer enlarges again in younger women whose ovaries have
been removed, or in older women whose ovaries are not actively functioning,
a further improvement may be gained by giving male hormones, the androgens.
An even greater number may respond to one of the more recently developed antioestrogen products. The fi rst and still most widely used anti-oestrogen agent is
called Tamoxifen.
Hormone manipulation has a distinct advantage over other forms of chemotherapy because hormones are less likely to cause serious side effects. However,
the male hormone, androgen, will cause most female patients to develop certain
male characteristics such as a deepening of the voice and growth of hair on the
face. It may also cause an increase in sexual desire (libido) that can be distressing for some patients such as women without a partner. Modified androgens with
reduced side effects are an improvement but none is without any side effects.
Another form of hormone therapy used in the past was to remove or otherwise put out of action other glands – the adrenal or pituitary that are responsible
for oestrogen production after the ovaries have ceased to function or had been
removed. Nowadays their actions can be suppressed by the use of luteinising
hormone releasing hormone (LH-RH) agonists and aromatase inhibitors. If this
is done, other precautions must be taken and medications given to replace other
essential functions of these glands.
The original hormonal treatments of breast cancer have now been largely
replaced by more modern hormone treatment schedules that should be administered carefully by specialist oncologists.

Anti-Oestrogens: Tamoxifen
The anti-oestrogen compound, Tamoxifen, has a somewhat similar effect to
androgen but has the distinct advantage of being relatively free from side effects.
Tamoxifen is also more likely to be effective in a larger number of patients
(including older women), than androgens or other agents.
Whilst Tamoxifen is often effective and is the most widely used hormonal
agent (actually it acts in competition with oestrogen) it rarely causes any upset to
the patient in the short term. When used over several years there is some risk that
it may alter the uterine mucosa and can even stimulate a cancer in the uterus. This
risk is small but most doctors now limit the use of Tamoxifen to 5 years unless
it is clearly essential to use it for longer periods. Studies have now shown that

105

106

8

8 T reating Cancer

used as adjuvant chemotherapy, after treatment of breast cancer in women with
hormone receptor positive cancers, hormone therapy can significantly reduce the
risk of both recurrent disease and mortality.

Cortisone
The adrenal gland hormone, cortisone, may also suppress some cancers. It is
often used in combination with cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents in treatment
of breast cancer, some cases of leukaemia, the lymphomas, especially Hodgkin disease, (Chap. 19), adenocarcinoma of the kidney (Chap. 17.2.2), advanced
prostate cancer (Chap. 16.2.4) and a rare cancer of plasmocytes in bone called
multiple myeloma (Chap. 19.8 ).

Hormone Side Eﬀec ts
Most patients tolerate hormone therapy better than chemotherapy. However
hormones may sometimes have some serious long-term side effects after prolonged use. Oestrogens can cause thrombosis and, in males, some feminising
effects. Androgens in females can cause hypertension as well as troublesome
mascularising effects. Removal of the adrenals or pituitary glands also leaves
problems of endocrine balance that must be managed.
Hormone treatment is often more readily accepted by patients and the medical
profession as being more “natural”, more scientific, and less toxic than cytotoxic
chemotherapy. Unfortunately, however, the good responses of hormone treatment of widespread cancer are usually relatively short-lived and eventually most
of the cancers re-develop. Each time they re-develop they are less responsive to
other forms of hormone management and eventually become unaffected by all
forms of hormone management.

Long-Term Hormone Therapy
Small doses of oestrogen were commonly given to menopausal and postmenopausal women to relieve hot flushes, depression, vaginal dryness loss of
sexual libido and other menopausal symptoms. This hormone replacement
therapy (HRT) given over a prolonged period, was known to be associated with
a slightly increased risk of breast cancer as well as a small risk of deep vein
thrombosis. Oestrogen therapy was then replaced by medications combining
small doses of oestrogen with progesterone. However it has now been shown
that there is still a small risk of side effects from oestrogen which are possibly
even greater, from the combined medication, including increasing the risk of
osteoporosis, thrombosis and cardiac problems. From recent studies there is no
apparent increased risk of breast cancer if HRT is given to post menopausal
women for no longer than 2 years and very little risk if given for no more than
5 years. However women who have already been treated for breast cancer or
women in other high-risk groups are not given such treatment.

8.4 Other Important Treatments

New Agents
New more effective agents are constantly being developed and tested. Herceptin
is discussed in a later chapter (Sect. 12.7 in Chap. 12). Tests on biopsy specimens
indicate likely response to Herceptin if needed.
8.4.1.2

Prostate Cancer

In 1941 Charles Huggins and Clarence Hodges, showed that a large percentage
of cancers of the prostate regressed after either the removal of male hormone (by
castration) or administration of a female hormone (oestrogen). This was the fi rst
study that showed that some hormone dependent cancers can be influenced by
giving the patient an antagonistic hormone. Castration is sometimes still used in
treatment of prostate cancer, and can be worthwhile, but it gives only temporary
control in the majority of patients. Oestrogen is no longer used because there
are better hormonal agents now available that don’t cause the desire and ability
to have sexual activity to be so suppressed and there is less likelihood of other
changes in sexual characteristics such as enlargement of the man’s breast tissue.
Anti-androgen drugs luteinising hormone releasing hormone agonists (LH-RH)
have a similar cancer suppressive activity with fewer side effects than with
oestrogens (see Chap. 16) .
8.4.1.3

Other Possible Hormone Sensitive Cancers

Other cancers that respond to hormones include cancer in the male breast,
which often responds to castration, although a more acceptable treatment
is Tamoxifen to which it will often respond. Cancer of the lining inside the
uterus (endometrial cancer) may respond to progesterone. Sometimes cancer
of the kidney will respond either to male or female hormones, and some
cases of thyroid cancer will be at least temporarily suppressed by the thyroid
hormone, thyroxine.

8.4.2

Immunotherapy

The body’s natural defence against invasion by organisms and other foreign
matter is through its immune defence system. The body also has some immune
defences against malignant cells and, possibly, development of cancer may be
caused by some fault or breakdown in these protective mechanisms. (Some
present concepts of these defence mechanisms are discussed below under Cell
mediated anti-cancer activity.)
Attempts have been made to develop immunity against cancer but the only
real success has been vaccines against viruses that are associated with cancer
directly against HPV (the human papilloma virus) and indirectly by immunising
against Hepatitis B.

107

108

8

Three groups of
immunological
substances
of particular
interest are
interferon, the
interleukins
and tumour
necrosis
factor (TNF).

8 T reating Cancer

A great deal of research is concerned with determining the nature of these
immunological defence mechanisms and trying to improve them or assist them
in people with cancer. These approaches will one day be of considerable practical
value in cancer treatment.
Injections of certain relatively harmless organisms such as the cowpox virus,
BCG or (Corynebacterium parvum). Both are harmless bacteria and have been
used in trials in the treatment of some malignancies to stimulate natural immune
defence mechanisms. Some isolated successes have been reported, especially in
the treatment of melanoma and lymphomas. Unfortunately as yet for most cancers,
little if any clinical benefit has resulted although further worthwhile studies are
in progress, especially in vaccine treatment of advanced melanoma. There is
still a place for clinical use of BCG in treatment of some bladder cancers and
prolonged cancer control is well established in many of these patients.
8.4.2.1

Monoclonal Antibodies

Many attempts have been made to develop antibodies with specific activity
against a particular cancer. In animal studies this has been possible in a number
of different models, especially with several tumours types in mice. There have
been three somewhat different therapeutic objectives:
1. One is to develop “killer antibodies” that specifically act against a particular
cancer.
2. Another is to develop “magic bullets” where antibodies are used to carry
an anti-cancer chemotherapeutic agent or a radioisotope or other such agent
directly to the cancer cells wherever they might be.
3. The third potential use of monoclonal antibodies is to identify the presence
of cancer cells by reaction to specific antibodies.
The application of these principles to treatment of clinical cancers in humans
has met with some encouraging results, especially in treating metastatic breast
cancer.
Recently developed techniques in biotechnology have made it possible to
manufacture so called monoclonal antibodies that are aimed at specific vital targets
in certain cancers. These include malignant lymphoma, breast and bowel cancers.
The use of these antibodies is relatively new, e.g. mabthera for lymphoma, herceptin
in breast cancer and erbitux for bowel cancer. In general these antibodies are used
in combination with chemotherapy. Despite their great expense they are showing
considerable effectivity, although their fi nal role is still being evaluated.
Herceptin (trastuzumad) is a commercially available humanised monoclonal antibody medication that specifically targets cancer cells. In fact it specifically targets a certain protein, human epithelial growth factor (HER2). HER2
is responsible for normal cell growth and cell division but HER positive cancer
cells have raised HER receptors on their surface and grow more quickly than
normal cells. Herceptin can also activate the immune system to kill HER2

8.4 Other Important Treatments

positive cancer cells. This explains why cancer growth is more specifically
retarded by Herceptin. In some patients Herceptin is considerably more effective if used in combination with chemotherapy, especially taxones. Herceptin is
expensive but is relatively non-toxic in clinical doses.
Three groups of immunological substances of particular interest are interferon, the interleukins and tumour necrosis factor (TNF).
8.4.2.2

Interferon

It was fi rst recognised in the 1930s that infection of animal cells with one virus
would for a time “interfere” with infection by other viruses. Thirty years later it
was discovered that a protein substance was released from cells infected with a
virus and this substance protects other cells against other viral infections. This
interfering substance is called “interferon”.
Interferon is found to be species specific. That is, interferon produced by chicken
cells is protective to other chicken cells against virus infection but is not protective
for cells of any other animal species. Similarly, interferon produced from human
cells is protective for other human cells but not for cells of other animal species.
Because it is difficult and expensive to prepare large quantities of interferon,
trials to study its clinical value in large numbers of patients have been difficult
to arrange. There is evidence that it may be protective in some viral infections
but is too expensive for general use. A rare form of leukaemia called “hairy cell”
leukaemia is one malignancy that often does respond well to interferon treatment
(Chap. 19) .
AIDS (acquired immune deficiency syndrome), is due to a virus infection.
This condition is an infection and not a cancer but a particular type of cancer
called Kaposi’s sarcoma was found to develop in some of the fi rst patients with
AIDS. Over a longer term some types of lymphoma, cancers of the cervix and
some other cancers have been found to develop more commonly in AIDS patients
than in the community at large. Early hopes that AIDS might respond well to
Interferon or any other immune treatment has so far not been fulfilled.
8.4.2.3

The Interleukins

The interleukins are protein substances, known as cytokines, and are produced
from white cells and are found to activate the immunological defence system.
The fi rst interleukins were Interleukin 1 which is produced from macrophages
(giant white cells) and Interleukin 2 that is produced from lymphocytes (small
white cells). They stimulate reproduction and activity of immune cells against
a cancer to which the cells have been specifically sensitised. In experimental
animals, interleukins have been shown, under certain conditions, to stimulate the
animal’s natural lymphocyte activity against implanted cancers to such an extent
that the cancers have been eradicated. At the time of writing this book neither
Interleukin I nor Interleukin 2 nor several more recently discovered Interleukins
have made any widespread impact on cancer treatment.

109

110

8

8 T reating Cancer

However some cancers, including melanoma and kidney cancers, sometimes
appear to have increased response when certain interleukins are used in conjunction with other treatments.
8.4.2.4

Tumour Necrosis Factor (TNF)

TNF is a more recent cytokine protein product of immunological research. TNF
does cause cancer cell destruction in some experimental models but is too toxic
for direct use in human patients. However recent work has shown that TNF
enhances the anti-cancer effect of certain other chemotherapeutic agents and
can be used safely and effectively when given exclusively to a limited part of the
body. At the time of writing this book it can be given with safety only in a closed
circuit by regional perfusion or regional infusion to treat malignancies such as
melanoma and sarcoma when confi ned to a limb (as discussed under “Regional
Chemotherapy”) but it can not be used systemically with safety.
TNF in combination with Interleukins 1 and 6 has been implicated in promoting cancer cachexia. Indeed, TNF was originally called cachetin, as the agent
that caused cachexia. Drugs that suppress the production of TNF, e.g. corticosteroids and thalidomide, have shown promise as agents that suppress cachexia
and tumour growth, respectively. The omega-3 oils are thought to work by suppressing Interleukin 6, which promotes breakdown of adipose tissue and skeletal
muscle.

Small Molecule Target Inhibitors
Basic cancer research has identified a number of key signalling pathways that
co-ordinate cancer cell growth. Growth signalling cytokines circulate in the
blood and bind to cancer cells via special receptor molecules. Receptors become
activated by the binding cytokine, and send a complex series of chemical signals
to the cell nucleus stimulating cell growth and division The principle oncogene
proteins responsible have been identified and successfully targeted for direct
inhibition by small molecules (low molecular mass compounds) that specifically inhibit the enzyme activity that stimulates growth. Examples are: Imatinib
mesylate (Gleevec), inhibit the tyrosine kinases, c-ABL + PDGF and c-KIT,
that are activated in chronic leukaemia and gastrointestinal stromal tumours
respectively. Small molecules can also inhibit other protein functions or block
regulatory protein–protein interactions.
8.4.2.5

Cell-Mediated Anti-Cancer Activity

Cell-mediated anti-cancer activity starts with a dendritic cell, a specialised
type of white blood cell produced in bone marrow and lymph nodes. Dendritic
cells are responsible for initiating and coordinating the body’s defence and
immune system. They stimulate macrophage activity. Macrophages have scavenger
(phagocytic) activity and are present in connective tissues and many organs

8.5 Some Further Treatments Under Study

including bone marrow, lymph nodes, spleen, liver and the central nervous
system. Macrophages are also called antigen-presenting cells (APC). They process antigens for presentation to “T” (tissue) lymphocytes.
Helper “T” cells recognise foreign antigen on the surface of foreign cells and
stimulate the production of cytotoxic “T” lymphocytes or killer cells. The killer
cells destroy cancer cells and virus-infected cells by targeting foreign antigen
that has been presented by macrophages.
This is all like a rather interdependent cycle of immune-cell activity and many
of the immune therapy factors described in this chapter are derived from different cells involved in this intriguing cycle. Each is aimed at boosting natural
defences against cancer cells.

8.5

Some Further Treatments Under Study

8.5.1

Heat Therapy

Because cancer cells are more sensitive to heat than normal cells heat-therapy is
now used in conjunction with chemotherapy in treating some tumours confi ned
to a limb, for example melanoma. When chemotherapy and heat can be confi ned
to the limb circulation there is a greater anti-tumour impact than with the use of
chemotherapy alone. However the safe and effective level of temperature elevation must be kept in a narrow range and even then there is an increased risk of
damage to normal muscles, skin and other tissues in the limb.
Investigations continue into methods of applying localised heat selectively
to internal organs or tissues containing cancer in a manner that will safely
destroy the cancer cells without damaging the normal body tissues. This
approach could be particularly valuable for treating cancer cells in a vital organ
that cannot be safely removed (such as in the liver). Several types of microwave
emitting machines have been designed for this purpose. A number of problems
have yet to be solved, particularly in maintaining the heat at a critical level
for a significant period without overheating the patient or causing damage to
normal tissues and cells. Studies are continuing but after several years the
most that can be said is that some interesting and hopeful results continue to
be reported.
8.5.1.1

Cryosurgery

This is another technique of destroying tumour tissue by using an extremely
cold temperature application to freeze-thaw and so destroy the tissue. It has been
used topically for years to treat small skin pre-malignant lesions (CO2 snow,
or liquid nitrogen) but more recently an internal probe has been developed to
destroy metastatic deposits of cancer cells, especially in the liver. Good results
have been reported from cancer centres specialising in this treatment.

111

112

8

8 T reating Cancer

8.5.1.2

Laser Surgery

In general the somewhat romantic objective of developing a laser gun that could be
specifically aimed at cancer cells and initiate their destruction sadly still remains
largely in the realm of science fiction. However some studies using laser in treating
some early cases of prostate cancer are encouraging, otherwise to date the closest
application of this principle is with photodynamic surgery as discussed below.
In its more general application, laser surgery is simply development of surgical technique in cancer treatment in which laser light is used to cut tissues in
some ways similar to diathermy. However studies of the use of laser light in
combination with other agents such as in photodynamic therapy continue and
their future expanded clinical application is almost certain. These techniques
have already be used in some clinical areas such as vascular surgery in which
endoscopic tubes are used to reach pathological lesions or tumours in organs or
tissues of otherwise difficult access.
8.5.1.3

Photodynamic Therapy

This is a type of light sensitive treatment being further investigated for some
cancers.
The small new capillary blood vessels that develop with a cancer to supply it
with blood are poorly formed and fragile. They easily break down if damaged
and also allow some chemicals to leak out into the cancer tissues. In photodynamic therapy patients are injected with certain photo-sensitising chemical
substances, that leak out of the fragile blood vessels in the cancer. The cancer
is then subjected to laser light of certain wavelengths. The reaction of the substances to laser light destroys the cancer cells. As laser light does not penetrate
any distance into tissues this treatment has so far only been used to treat certain
surface cancers, such as skin cancers and cancers in the mucous membrane
lining the mouth. Studies to date are being carried out only in specialised clinics
as precautions must be taken to avoid side effects, especially general sunlight
hypersensitivity from photosensitising agents.
Any advantages of this treatment over other more standard treatments are as
yet uncertain but in the future there may be potential for developing similar techniques to treat other less accessible cancers, for example bladder cancers.
Dermatologists have now developed an effective photodynamic therapy for
skin cancers using a local application of a photosensitive cream and a strong light
wave, not necessarily laser light. Many superficial skin cancers are now treated
very effectively by this relatively simple technique.

8.5.2

Gene Therapy

Among the more exciting areas of progress of both understanding cancer and treating cancer is the study of genes and their activity and genetic abnormalities. In the
near future genotypic tumour changes will be relevant in deciding treatment.

8.6 General Care

113

Gene therapy is in its infancy, but the Chinese Government has licensed in 2005
a recombinant adenovirus that produces a functional p53 protein when the virus is
injected into head and neck squamous-cell carcinoma (HNSCC), and it has shown to be
effective in combination with radiotherapy (to induce apoptosis and tumour regression).
8.5.2.1

Matching Treatment to Cancer-Associated Genes
and Molecular Characterisation of Cancers

As well as traditional matching of treatment to histological features of cancer
cells, progress is now being made in matching treatment to cancer-associated
genes and molecular typing. Progress is especially being made in using the
tyrosine-kinase inhibitor STI 571 or imatinib (Gleevec) with successful treatment of chronic myeloid (or myelocytic or granulocytic) leukaemia and gastrointestinal stromal tumours as mentioned in Chap. 19.4.3.
More of this progress is outlined in Chap. 24.19 under the heading “Molecular
Characterisation in Future Cancer Treatment”.
8.5.2.2

Anti-Angiogenesis

Following the principles mentioned in photodynamic therapy, agents are now being
developed specifically aimed at damaging or preventing development of the small
blood vessels (capillaries) that supply the cancers with blood. Without a blood supply the tumours can’t grow or survive. At this stage successful experiments have
been conducted against tumours in mice and other animals. One such product is
called “angiostatin” but it is likely that a number of new agents, aimed specifically
at tumour blood vessels, will be developed in the near future.
People who remember the deformed limbs of some babies born about in the early
1960s to some mothers who took the anti-nausea drug thalidomide, may be interested
to know that thalidomide caused the defects in the growing foetus precisely as a result
of interfering with the important blood vessels growing in the developing foetus limbs
in at a crucial time of foetal development. Thalidomide and similar products are now
being investigated to destroy the small blood vessels in some growing cancers.

8.6

General Care

8.6.1

Care of General Health

The presence of cancer in the body sooner or later will have a profound effect
on the sufferer’s general state of health. Anorexia (loss of appetite), weight loss,
anaemia, lassitude, and general malaise and debility are common general features
and specific problems will develop according to the site of the cancer and the tissues or organs involved. The ability of the body’s natural defence mechanisms to
control cancer is affected by the patient’s general state of health, as will the patient’s
mental and emotional state and ability to tolerate the various forms of treatment.

The ability
of the body’s
natural defence
mechanisms to
control cancer
is aﬀected by
the patient’s
general state
of health.

114

8

8 T reating Cancer

For these reasons, it is important that special attention should be paid to
the patient’s general health and well-being. The diet should be nutritious yet
tempting and interesting. Adequate vitamins must be provided either in the
food or in vitamin supplements and omega oils should be part of the treatment
of cachexia. Any anaemia should be appropriately treated and there should be
provision for adequate rest and gentle healthy exercise. There must be adequate
provision for pain relief. Emotional support from family, friends and the treatment team including friendly concern and support of a good family doctor
make a big difference in the prospects of the patient living comfortably and
making achievable progress.

8.6.2

Treatment of Complications

Special problems associated with particular forms of cancer will need appropriate attention. These include nutrition for patients with obstructive cancer
of oesophagus or stomach. Surgical measures can give relief of obstruction for patients with obstructive bowel cancer or patients with pancreatic
cancer obstructing the bile duct and causing jaundice. Surgical relief can
also be given for urinary obstruction of patients with obstructive cancer
of the prostate gland. Local treatment and dressing is essential for cancers
fungating through the skin. Diuretics and some other measures sometimes
give partial relief from pressure on the lungs with breathlessness caused by
fluid accumulated around the lungs in the pleural cavity (pleural effusion).
However removal of pleural fluid or ascites fluid accumulated in the chest or
abdominal cavity may be needed to achieve temporary relief from pressure
in the abdomen and chest.
Raised intra-cranial pressure may cause headaches, vomiting, papilledema
(with blurred vision) convulsions or coma. This may be caused by tumours
with surrounding swelling in the brain and the patient can often be relieved by
radiotherapy or the use of certain drugs, especially steroid drugs, that reduce the
swelling.
Complicating infections due to cancer, such as pneumonia associated with
cancer obstructing the air passages or infections associated with weakened
leukocyte defences of leukaemias, will also require appropriate attention.
Bleeding, bruising or thrombosis also commonly associated with blood disorders of leukaemias will also require special attention.
Anaemia is also a common association with many cancers including the
leukaemias; cancers of stomach, bowel or uterus with abnormal bleeding; or
primary or secondary cancers destroying or replacing bone marrow. Anaemia
secondary to chemotherapy can be improved with judicious use of the bone
marrow protective agent erythropoietin. Haemoglobin should be maintained at
or above 12 g/L. This reduces the need for blood transfusion and improves the
patient’s quality of life.

8.6 General Care

Bones involved with cancer may not only be painful but may fracture spontaneously – known as pathological fracture. The use of bisphosphonates has been
shown to decrease the risk of complications (fractures, hypercalcaemia, spinal
cord compression etc) as well as relieving bone pain. Bisphosphonates become
incorporated in the weakened area of bone, restoring some strength to the bone
and helping it to resist further destruction. Bisphosphonate treatment requires the
patient to attend the hospital or oncology unit for a couple of hours. A slow drip of
fluid containing the drug is infused into a vein. The patient simply sits comfortably during the procedure, possibly reading a book or watching television. The
treatment should not worry the patient or cause side effects and can be repeated
at about monthly intervals if necessary. Bisphosphonates are used to advantage
in managing metastases from breast, prostate and lung cancers.
Pathological fractures need to be treated on their merits but healing is often
helped by local radiotherapy. Metastatic cancers not only in bones but also in
liver, lungs, brain, bowel and other situations may also need special treatment.

8.6.3

Supportive Care and Supportive Care Teams

Because of the complexity of cancer treatments, their inevitable side-effects,
and the need for both acute and long-term specialised care, professional “supportive care” teams have been established in some clinics. These teams consist
of doctors, nurses, allied health professionals, social, psychological and spiritual
helpers. These teams have particular skills and interest in care of cancer patients
who have developed complications of treatment and patients who have residual
complications but an otherwise good, long term prognosis. The skills of these
teams range from administration of haemopoetic growth-factors and blood transfusions to restore depressed bone marrow activity, management of infections or
nutritional problems as well as longer term restoration of physical activity, longterm pain relief and restoration of social and income producing activity.
This is an area of care that has been historically shared between the cancer
treatment team and the palliative care team.
In most clinics “supportive care” is still provided either by the cancer treatment team or the palliative care team but in some clinics, especially where the
clinical workload is increasing, specialised supportive care teams have become
a valuable asset in cancer care.

8.6.4 Pain Relief
Nothing is more wearing, debilitating and distressing for people than to suffer
constant and unrelieved pain. Whilst most cancers causing severe pain are usually
advanced and some are incurable, at least patients suffering severe pain can be
given relief. For curable cancers, the best pain relief is achieved by eradicating
the cancers, but for incurable cancers many pain-relieving measures are available.

115

116

8

8 T reating Cancer

Radiotherapy will often give pain relief by reducing the size of the tumours and
surrounding swelling and pressure. This is especially so for metastatic cancers
in bones and the brain. Operations to relieve obstruction of bowel, bladder or
other organs will give pain relief. Hormones or anti-cancer drugs that reduce
the size of tumours, thus reducing any associated pressure, may also be used on
occasions to effect pain relief.
Nerves that transmit pain may also be put out of action by injecting them with
local anaesthetic or with alcohol or possibly by cutting them surgically. Occasionally the nerve pathway in the spinal cord that conducts pain sensation to the brain
can be cut to give permanent loss of pain sensation from a region of the body.
Meditation, hypnotherapy or even acupuncture is used at times for pain relief.
Whilst they are undoubtedly helpful for some patients, for others, their greatest
value may be in providing emotional support rather than physical relief of severe
or constant pain.
The most common and quickest method of pain relief is with simple painrelieving drugs (analgesics) or the stronger and addictive pain relieving drugs
(narcotics). Simple analgesics such as aspirin and aspirin-like products, paracetamol and the like, are usually used fi rst. If not effective, agents containing
small amounts of the least dangerous narcotic agent, codeine, are often used.
The stronger narcotic agents, Pethidine (meperidine), methadone, and the opium
derivative, morphine, may be given for immediate relief of severe pain usually as
a temporary measure until other treatment has given more permanent pain relief.
They may also be given on a permanent basis for pain-relief in people, who have
a limited life expectancy, from an incurable cancer.
One of the most frequent treatment errors in oncology is under-treatment
of pain, especially chronic pain in a palliative setting. Combination analgesic
therapy, with narcotic and non-narcotic drugs, as well as tricyclic drugs for stress
relief is an important aspect of management for people with advanced incurable
cancer. In some countries heroin is also used very effectively in these circumstances but only when life expectancy is strictly limited.

8.6.5

Psychological and Spiritual Help

As mentioned in Chap. 2.20, some psychologists, alternative medicine practitioners and well-qualified psychiatrists postulated that sometimes cancer may
be a result of anxiety, emotional trauma or depressive states. This may or may
not be so but at least it must be acknowledged that such emotional states are
detrimental to the patient’s well-being and often do have an adverse effect on
the progress of the disease and response to treatment. Perhaps more importantly,
people who rightly or wrongly believe that they have a cancer become anxious
and emotionally disturbed even if they were not previously. This is a natural and
understandable reaction to what they often regard as a death sentence at worst,
or a very serious illness requiring radical or prolonged treatment, and possibly
with disfigurement at best.

8.6 General Care

117

Such emotional distress will often cause patients to seek alternative medications or fringe medicine therapists, unconventional “faith healers” or tragically
unqualified “quacks”, especially if they have been told that traditional medicine
has nothing to offer.
Every doctor who cares for cancer patients should anticipate these natural
reactions and readily support the emotional needs of the patient and the patient’s
family in all situations. Sometimes this can be given effectively by the responsible clinical specialists with the cooperation and help of the family doctor
experienced nurses and other qualified helpers including social workers or
psychologists. For most people, support of a member of the clergy can be a great
comfort. Sometimes the help of an understanding psychiatrist experienced in this
field is mandatory and certainly it is extremely valuable for a cancer treatment
team to have the services of an interested and experienced psychiatrist and/or
clinical psychologist and a social worker readily available.
Some psychiatrists and paramedical workers have claimed that some patients
who have learned techniques of relaxation and meditation or hypnotherapy have
shown not only emotional and physical benefit but even regression of the size of the
cancer. In some patients such benefits may be real but they are difficult to prove.
A strong wish for improvement may cloud any measurable judgment, and very
occasional cases of spontaneous cancer regression have been reported in response
to no particular therapy. However, an invaluable benefit of an experienced
psychiatrist or clinical psychologist and social worker is to help the cancer sufferer
and members of his or her family adjust to the new situation with all the emotional,
social and other problems associated. An experienced social worker is of great
help in advising of financial and other supportive agencies that may be available
to help a patient’s readjustment and other needs. For many people, especially those
with advanced or incurable cancer, member of the clergy or other spiritual adviser
will be of great value in helping in this re-adjustment process in which the patient
has to come to terms with a changed and possibly fatal situation.

8.6.6 Follow-Up Care
No matter what treatment is used in cancer management it is important that
all patients should undergo regular medical follow-up examinations. This is
mainly to detect and treat, at an early stage, any problem that might arise but
also gives most patients confidence that they are not being neglected and that
any new problem will be detected and treated early. It is also important for
doctors to keep accurate and continuing records of the long-term success or
otherwise of treatment given so that improved treatments can be recorded and
further developed.
For some cancers if 2 years has passed since treatment with no evidence of
cancer, it can be very hopeful that the cancer has been cured. Indeed for most
cancers a period of 5 years free of cancer indicates that cure of that cancer is very
likely. Two of the more common cancers however require a longer period of regular

No matter what
treatment is
used in cancer
management
it is important
that all patients
should undergo
regular medical
follow-up
examinations.

118

8

8 T reating Cancer

follow up as evidence of disease can show up years later. These are melanoma
and breast cancer. It seems that for these two cancers in particular, the body’s
natural “immune” defences can keep the cancer under control for many years until
something causes it to show up again, sometimes as a lump under the skin or in
a lymph node, or somewhere else. These recurrent or residual cancers are often
slowly growing and may be curable provided they have been detected whilst still
small and localised. Hence the special need for regular and long-term follow-up of
cancer patients.

8.6.7

Most
unconventional
“cures”
have been
investigated
one way or
another and
found to be
lacking when
analysed
scientiﬁcally.

The Specialty of Palliative Care

In recent years palliative care has developed into a specialty service in its own
right. It is especially relevant to the field of oncology.
When cure is beyond all probability and remaining life is, or is likely to become,
increasingly miserable, doctors, nurses and other associated experts who develop
special expertise in relieving distressing symptoms and making remaining life
more comfortable and tolerable make up the palliative care team. Rather than
leave the family doctor, or specialist surgeon, physician, radiation oncologist or
other specialist oncologist either individually or collectively to do their best to
relieve distress, the experts in palliative care form a team dedicated to studying and
administering methods to best make life more comfortable for suffering patients.
These teams specialise in relieving acute or chronic pain, bladder or bowel incontinence, feeding, respiratory, speech and mobility problems and sleeping difficulties.
They are aware of and help avoid problems of prolonged ill health or confi nement to
bed such as pressure sores, pulmonary congestion or deep-vein thrombosis.
These caring specialists have now become most valuable associates for cancer
treatment teams attending to special needs of the patient not only medical and
physical but also needs of a social, emotional and spiritual nature. They help
families and friends adjust to different circumstances and different needs –
specially when there is no prospect of curing the cancer.
Palliative-care specialists initially began their work in hospitals and nursing
homes but now many are able to offer services in other institutions or in family
homes. In some countries, separate institutions have been established for specialised services in palliative care.

8.6.8

Alternative Medicine

8.6.8.1

Ranging from Unproven Naturopathic and Herbal Medicine
Remedies To Unscrupulous “Quack” Practises

There are almost limitless numbers of “cancer cures” promoted by a variety of
people ranging from thoughtful, well-intentioned and knowledgeable alternative
medicine practitioners on the one hand to misguided “quacks” and unscrupulous

8.6 G eneral Care

charlatans on the other. These “cures” range from large doses of vitamins (especially vitamin C), to pure or blended mixtures of herbs and a variety of plant
extracts. One of the most publicised plant extracts is an extract of apricot kernels
called Laetrile. Diets (especially low-protein diets) are commonly advocated.
Other common recommendations are meditation, acupuncture, hypnotherapy
and faith healing.
There are also some contemptible, deceitful unqualified practitioners who use
sleight-of-hand manoeuvres in which they pretend to extract cancers painlessly
from sufferers and produce a handful of bloodstained tissue as evidence of this.
Some of these alternative remedies are undoubtedly based on incidental
observations. Some are based on reasonable observations or hypotheses, as may
be so for vitamin C therapy and the other anti-oxidant vitamins A and E. Others
however are devoid of any logical or scientific basis. Some of these are based
on a figment of imagination or a “one-off” incidental observation in an isolated
cancer sufferer who happened to undergo a spontaneous remission.
Unfortunately sometimes a “cancer cure” promotion is purely based on a
desire to get rich on the part of the practitioner, at the expense of the cancer sufferer and his or her family. Sometimes cancer cures have been claimed in patients
in whom a diagnosis of cancer was never established.
Most unconventional “cures” have been investigated one way or another
and found to be lacking when analysed scientifically. None has been more thoroughly studied than Laetrile and, although no medicinal value has been found,
it is entirely understandable that people who fi nd themselves unable to face the
reality of having an incurable condition or of requiring radical surgery or other
radical treatments, will search for a more acceptable alternative. This must be
appreciated by cancer treatment teams who need to be prepared to spend time in
advising and helping cancer sufferers in their mental and emotional as well as
physical distress.
At the same time, medical practitioners should not close their minds to the
possibility that one day an idea might be proposed or an observation made by a
non-traditional practitioner that could be of value in cancer treatment.
Many valuable medications, including some anti-cancer agents, have been
found in plants. Undoubtedly more will be found in the future. The medical
profession and research scientists are aware of these possibilities, so that most
proposed new or alternative but unproven “cancer cures” undergo some form of
examination by appropriate authorities.
For some patients alternative or unorthodox therapy can be comforting and
supportive even though specific cancer healing properties are either non-existent,
not known or not understood. Provided such therapy is helping or comforting for
the patient, is not harmful either physically or fi nancially, and does not conflict
with necessary treatment, it should not be dismissed for this patient by the cancer
treatment team.

119

For some
patients
alternative or
un-orthodox
therapy can
be comforting
and supportive
even though
speciﬁc cancer
healing
properties
are either
non-existent,
not known
or not
understood.

120

8

8 T reating Cancer

EXERCISE
What are interferon, interleukins and TNF?

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

9

Relationship Between Patients, Their Doctors
and the Healthcare Team

In this chapter you will learn about:

› The importance of selecting appropriate specialists for patient care
› The importance of developing an honest and compassionate relationship
between doctor and patient

› Skills in delivering worrying news to patients and their families
› Diﬀerences that often exist between men and women in dealing with
health issues.

Nowhere in the field of medical practice is it more important for the patient to
have good personal relationships, trust and understanding, than between each
patient with cancer, or suspected cancer, and his or her medical advisers. Breast
cancer and prostate cancer stand out as having special need for good relationships. In the case of breast cancer different possible courses of action are likely
to achieve similar long-term results and the patient’s preferred treatment option
should be discussed. In the case of prostate cancer there may be a question of
advisability of any attempt at cure so that the patient’s personal life priorities
must be considered.
The occasion of breaking bad news to any patient with cancer must be handled
with gentleness, compassion and understanding. It must not be hurried and preferably the patient’s wife or husband or a particular friend or family member
should be present. Questions must be answered truthfully and carefully but without unnecessarily stressing pessimistic aspects.
There is no simple answer and each patient’s special needs and priorities and
his or her family and social relationships and circumstances are all important in
the decision making.
By the time women reach the age of having need for advice about a cancer
problem most will know a family doctor in whom they have trust and confidence.
Men are usually less ready than women to seek medical advice and often need
to be persuaded by a wife or a friend.

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_9, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

The occasion
of breaking
bad news to
any patient
with cancer
must be
handled
with
gentleness,
compassion
and understanding.

121

122 9

9

Relationship Between Patients, Their Doctors and the Healthcare Team

After a comfortable, unhurried and mutually thoughtful and honest discussion about the problem with the family doctor, and, at least on one occasion with
the patient accompanied by his or her wife, husband, partner or other close family member or friend, arrangements will usually be made for consultation with
a specialist.
The specialist is unlikely to be an old family friend, as the family doctor may
well be. However it is equally important for the family doctor to arrange referral
of the patient to a skilled but compassionate, supportive and understanding
specialist who is prepared to listen to the patient’s anxieties and take time to
answer many asked or unasked questions. The specialist should be chosen
because he or she has special skills, facilities and expertise and is also readily
able to communicate comfortably with an anxious, worried and often confused
patient and his or her family. This is not the occasion for the family doctor to
arrange consultation with a specialist predominantly because he or she was an
old school mate or one who has just come back from overseas with good training
and needs support. The relationship between specialist and patient will probably
be prolonged over several months or years. In fact there should be a close threeway relationship with good understanding and communication between specialist or treatment team, family doctor and patient.
Certainly the specialist must have the appropriate skills and facilities and must
be up to date with latest information. But over and above this, it is most important
for the specialist, and members of the treatment team, to be able to communicate,
explain and be ready to answer questions freely and in an unhurried atmosphere
and be readily accessible, possibly by telephone, if or when problems or questions arise. Discussions about the most appropriate treatment should not sound
like an edict from above but be mutually considered and arranged, having taken
into account many factors unique to the individual patient. The specialist must
also appreciate that no matter how clearly he or she has explained everything to
the patient it is unlikely that the patient will be able to “take it all in” in one visit.
One or more further visits are almost essential for probably every patient, if not
to the specialist, then at least to the well-informed family doctor.

10

Skin Cancers

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Skin cancer prevention
› BCC (basal cell carcinoma)
› SCC (squamous cell carcinoma)
› Melanoma

Cancer of the skin is the most common cancer affecting people of European
descent. It is especially common in fair-skinned people who live in sunny climates.
Australians and New Zealanders have the world’s highest incidence of skin cancer,
followed by the white populations of the southern regions of the United States.
In fact more than half of the white-skinned people living in these climates can
expect to get one or more of the common skin cancers during their lifetime.
There are three common types of skin cancer – basal cell carcinoma (BCC),
squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and melanoma. BCC is by far the most common
and fortunately, the least dangerous. SCC is the next most common but is more
aggressive than BCC. Melanoma is fortunately the least common of the three but
is the most dangerous.

10.1

Skin Cancer Prevention

As for any health problem, the best treatment for skin cancer is prevention.
BCCs and SCCs of skin can be largely prevented by avoiding too much
ultraviolet irradiation from strong sunlight or artificial light in solariums. It is
particularly important for fair-skinned people, and especially fair and red-headed
people, who live in sunny tropical or subtropical climates, to take preventative
measures in their everyday lives. If exposed to strong sunlight they are advised
to wear protective clothing, broad brimmed-hats, long-sleeved shirts, and long
skirts or trousers, and apply sun-screening lotions on exposed skin if any time is

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_10, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

125

126

10

Skin Cancers

10

Fig. 10.1. The best preventative measure against skin cancers is to protect the skin, especially fair sensitive skin, against sunshine and other forms of ultraviolet irradiation. A
large shady hat, protective skin creams, ointments or lotions and other forms of protective
clothing all give protection. The very fair skinned girl pictured is wearing a large shady
hat but would have been even better protected if she had worn a long-sleeved dress

spent in strong sunlight. They are advised to confi ne outdoor swimming or beach
activities to early mornings or late afternoons. They are especially advised to
protect nose, lips and face in general and the backs of their forearms and hands,
because of the risk of long periods of exposure. By taking such measures, the
risk of developing BCCs and SCCs can be greatly reduced.
Protective measures against risk of melanoma are similar with special emphasis on the need to avoid getting sunburnt. This applies especially to children and
young people who may like to remove clothing from chest, backs and limbs thus
exposing relatively white skin when days are sunny and beaches are available.
The skin of young people is especially vulnerable to changes that reduce protective cells in skin (Langerhans cells), leading to an increased risk of melanoma
later in life (Fig. 10.1).

10.2

Basal Cell Carcinoma (BCC)

A BCC is usually fi rst noticed as a small, crusty patch or pearly grey nodule or
an ulcer on the skin surface. These cancers occur most commonly in skin that has
been constantly exposed to sunshine over many years. Hence they are not common before the age of 40 and become increasingly common with increasing age.
More than 70% occur on the face because the skin of the face is most constantly

10.2 Basal Cell Carcinoma (BCC)

exposed to the sun. The next most common sites are on the skin of the neck, the
backs of the hands or forearms, lower legs, chest, shoulders and back.
BCCs are painless, usually slowly growing and may have been noticed for
months or even a year or more before medical attention is sought. If neglected, they
usually develop as slowly enlarging ulcers, sometimes called rodent ulcers because
of the appearance that may look as though a rat had gnawed out a piece of skin.
Although, fortunately, they almost never metastasise to lymph nodes or other distant
tissues, they do tend to erode locally into tissues around them. Thus if neglected for
a long time they may become incurable or even fatal by causing destruction to such
tissues as underlying cartilage of the nose or ear, underlying bone of the skull, or
large blood vessels in the neck. They can sometimes invade the orbit and paranasal
sinuses and may even erode into the brain (Figs. 10.2 and 10.3).

Fig. 10.2. A typical
BCC on the face

Fig. 10.3. This photograph shows a
woman with a tragically neglected
advanced BCC on her face. Such
neglect before seeking medical attention
is extremely rare. When seen it is
usually in someone who has been living
in isolation. This case does demonstrate
that even slowly growing BCCs can
become mutilating if improperly treated
or neglected for some years

127

128

10

10

10.2.1

Skin Cancers

Treatment

Very small superficial BCCs are often treated by cryotherapy, usually with a
liquid nitrogen spray. If larger or extending deeper, they are better treated by
simple surgical excision, usually under local anaesthesia. The tissue excised is
examined by a pathologist to confi rm that it was a BCC and that it was completely excised with an adequate margin of normal tissue. Radiotherapy can also
be an effective method of treating BCCs but preferably after a small biopsy has
been taken to confi rm the diagnosis. Radiotherapy has the advantage of avoiding a surgical operation and of being a painless procedure. Radiotherapy has
the disadvantage of requiring expensive specialised equipment and personnel,
requiring several treatment attendances (often 20 or more) and leaving some
permanent radiation damage to a small patch of skin. It also has the disadvantage
that if no tissue is removed, there may be some doubt about the exact diagnosis
of the lesion and whether it was completely eradicated. Nevertheless, for many
small lesions, especially in elderly patients and in difficult places such as over
a lacrimal duct, it may be the most appropriate form of treatment. Sometimes
small BCCs are removed by dermatologists using cauterisation or a small curette.
These techniques should be left to experienced specialists because a mistake in
diagnosis or incomplete removal can lead to a greater problem.
BCCs that have recurred after previous attempts at treatment or BCCs that
occur close to vital structures such as a lacrimal duct or in an eyelid, present
special problems and require expert attention.
Large BCCs invading bone or other tissues may require extensive surgical
procedures including reconstructive surgery. Very occasionally they may even
be incurable and are possibly best treated by palliative radiotherapy. (Palliative
treatment will give a patient relief by reducing the tumour or lessening its symptoms without being likely to cure). Although such advanced lesions are not common, they are disastrous when they do occur and can easily be prevented by
correct treatment of BCCs in their early stages. Hence it is important for people
with small lesions to seek medical help early, at which time BCCs are easily and
completely curable.

10.3

Squamous Cell Carcinoma (SCC)

SCCs are also most common on the skin of the face, especially the lower part
of the face and lower lip. However they also commonly occur on the neck, the
backs of the hands or forearms, or skin of other frequently exposed areas such
as the lower legs, back or chest.
They often develop in skin lesions called hyperkeratoses that are small, crusty
or flaky thickened areas of skin, resulting from previous repeated sun-damage
over a long period.
An SCC is usually first noticed as a small painless, often crusty, lump growing
on the surface of the skin or as an ulcer in the skin. Intra-epithelial hyperplasia

10.3 Squamous Cell Carcinoma (SSC)

(Bowen’s disease) is a very early non-penetrating SCC confined to the most
superficial skin layer. It is a carcinoma “in-situ” and often presents as a small red
patch of skin, possibly superficially ulcerated.
SCCs usually grow more rapidly than BCCs and, unlike BCCs, after a time
they do tend to metastasise to nearby draining lymph nodes. Later, they may
spread further to more distant lymph nodes or to other distant tissues or organs
such as the lung. They also grow locally and are likely to invade surrounding
tissues causing ulceration, bleeding and pain.
Fortunately, however, most SCCs of skin have not metastasised when fi rst
diagnosed and treatment of draining lymph nodes is usually not required. However, draining lymph nodes must be kept under close observation and if they
enlarge they should be treated without delay – usually by surgical excision (Figs.
10.4 –10.7).

10.3.1

Treatment

As for all cancers, the earlier SCCs are diagnosed and treated, the less radical
treatment they need and the greater the likelihood of cure.
For any lesion suspected of being an SCC, it is important for a biopsy to
be taken. In the case of a small lesion, this may be best achieved by surgical excision of the whole lesion – an excision biopsy. For a large lesion it is
usually more appropriate for a small piece of tissue to be taken from its edge
for microscopic examination – this is called an incision biopsy. A frozen
section examination of a biopsy specimen, (as described in Chap. 7.6.5), is
sometimes appropriate to allow immediate complete treatment to be carried
out without delay.

Fig. 10.4. A typical SCC (squamous cell cancer) on the scalp of a bald-headed elderly
man who had worked out of doors all his life as a gardener

129

130

10

10

Skin Cancers

Fig. 10.5. A cutaneous horn that is
likely to develop SCC in its base

Fig. 10.6. Multiple BCCts and SCCs
can develop in fair-skinned people
after many years of unprotected sun
exposure. This man has almost “wall
to wall” cancers

10.3 Squamous Cell Carcinoma (SSC)

Fig. 10.7. An advanced SCC of the lower lip

Very superficial SCCs (Bowen’s disease) can now be treated effectively by
photodynamic therapy. The lesion is painted with a photosensitising cream and
subsequently exposed to a strong light beam. Cryotherapy is also effective.
Once the diagnosis of an invasive or potentially invasive SCC in skin is
established, treatment is usually by surgical excision or sometimes by radiotherapy. Surgical excision is usually the most effective and appropriate treatment. The lesion is widely excised and examined microscopically to confi rm
that a margin of normal tissue surrounding the cancer has also been excised
to be sure that total removal of all the primary cancer has been achieved. If
draining lymph nodes are enlarged without evidence that this is due to infection, then the lymph nodes too should be removed in one block of tissue and
examined histologically. Depending on the site and how much tissue has to be
excised, cosmetic surgery such as a skin graft may be needed to repair the
tissue and close the defect.
As in the case of BCCs, radiotherapy is sometimes used to treat some SCCs
of skin, especially in elderly patients or in other patients in whom an operation
might be risky, or occasionally as palliative treatment when cure by surgery is
considered to be impossible.
People occasionally are seen with large SCCs of skin that appear not likely
to be curable by radiotherapy or surgery (or only curable by mutilating surgery
such as amputation of a limb). These can sometimes be reduced in size and
extent by fi rst administering chemotherapy, especially when given regionally by

131

132

10

10

Skin Cancers

intra-arterial infusion or perfusion (as described under Sect. 8.3.4.6 and 8.3.4.9
in Chap. 8). After the use of chemotherapy, the tumours are usually so reduced
in size, extent and viability that they can then be cured by radiotherapy and/
or local surgical excision and usually with surgical excision of any involved
regional lymph nodes.
Occasionally when a SCC of skin is very advanced, possibly invading local
vital organs or tissues, or if there is metastatic spread into distant organs or tissues, it may be incurable. However, it may still be appropriate to use anti-cancer
drugs and radiotherapy as part of a palliative-care program to reduce the extent
and size of the cancer and to relieve symptoms.

C AS E R E P O R T
Skin Cancer
Eric is a 64 year-old man of Northern European origin who has lived in
Southern California since he was 2 years of age and has spent most of his
life in out-door activities.
Between his 40th and 60th birthdays he had many hyperkeratotic skin
lesions on his face, neck and backs of hands treated by cryotherapy (liquid
nitrogen), four BCCs excised surgically and one SCC on his lower left
cheek excised surgically. At the age of 60 when he had many more crusty
lesions and a newly-developed reddish lesion, called Bowen’s disease
(superficial squamous carcinoma in-situ) on his lower right face, he was
referred to a specialist dermatologist. The dermatologist suggested that the
present lesions, including the patch of Bowen’s disease, be treated with a
chemotherapy cream called Efudix (Efudix is a skin cream containing the
chemotherapeutic agent fluorouracil). The dermatologist advised that the
cream should be applied to the lesions twice daily for three weeks during
which time Eric should avoid direct sun-exposure as his skin would have
increased photo-sensitivity. He explained that the lesions should flake off
leaving a clearer complexion.
When Eric returned in one month for follow-up consultation both he
and the dermatologist were pleased with the result. The lesions had disappeared and his face had a clear, fresh appearance.
Two years later three further crusty lesions had developed. These too
were treated with Efudix cream with a similar result. Now, four years after
fi rst using the cream, two more lesions have developed and are to be treated
similarly. Eric is otherwise well and is pleased with the result.

10.4 Melanoma

10.4

Melanoma

Melanoma is the most dangerous form of skin cancer. A melanoma is a malignant
growth of pigment-forming cells in the skin or in an eye. Occasionally it may
occur in mucous membranes such as the lining of the mouth or anus.
Whilst melanoma is a highly malignant tumour, present-day general awareness, early detection and better management methods have greatly improved
the outlook. From being a lesion with a more than 50% mortality until the midtwentieth century, the outlook nowadays has so improved that 85–90% of people
with melanoma can now be cured.

10.4.1

133

The outlook
nowadays has
so improved
that 85–90%
of people with
melanoma can
now be cured.

Pathology

There are three main pathological types of melanoma called “lentigo maligna”,
“superficial spreading melanoma” and “nodular melanoma”.
Lentigo maligna melanoma in situ develops in a freckle-type pigmented lesion
in which the pigment cells (melanocytes) are in the basal layer of skin as opposed
to common freckles which contain pigment in the superficial layers of skin. Lentigo maligna occurs most often in the skin of the face in older age group people
after years of sun exposure, when they are known as Hutchinson’s melanotic
freckles. These are superficial, non-invasive melanomas and are less aggressive
than invasive melanomas arising in the skin of the trunk and limbs.
Melanomas on invesive sites, especially on the trunk for men and the lower
limbs for women, are usually either superficial spreading melanoma (and not
penetrating deeply early in the disease) or nodular melanoma with somewhat
thickened or lumpy features and usually penetrating more deeply into underlying
skin layers. The deeper the penetration of melanoma the worse the likely prognosis and the more radical the treatment needed to achieve a cure.

10.4.2

Causes and Incidence

Melanoma is most common in fair-skinned people living in sunny tropical or
sub-tropical climates but as opposed to BCCs and SCCs, melanoma does not
commonly occur on areas of the body most constantly exposed to sunshine. The
most usual sites of the more common and more often aggressive melanomas are
on the back, particularly in men, or on the thigh or leg, particularly in women,
as opposed to the face that is the most common site of other cancers caused by
sunshine. However, like other skin cancers, the world’s highest incidence is in the
white populations of Australia and New Zealand, especially those living closest
to the equator and nearest to the seaside. In Australia about 10% of all registered

Melanoma rarely
aﬀects children
before puberty.
After puberty
it aﬀects
people of all
ages including
teenagers and
young adults.

134

10

10

Skin Cancers

cases of the more serious cancers are melanomas. The white population of the
sunny southern parts of the United States also have a high incidence of melanoma. In Europe the fair-skinned people of Scandinavia and Northern Europe
also have a relatively high incidence. Even though they do not live in a tropical
or subtropical climate they do tend to take their holidays in sunny climates and
often become sunburnt. People of dark-skinned races do occasionally develop
a melanoma but in these people it is much more common for the melanoma to
be at sites of less pigmentation such as the sole of the foot, under fi ngernails or
toenails or in the mucosa lining the mouth or anus.
Melanoma rarely affects children before puberty. After puberty it affects people of all ages including teenagers and young adults but the incidence rises with
increasing age, especially in males. Whilst it affects males and females almost
equally in younger years, it becomes more common in males with increasing age.
Also the outlook for females is rather better than that for males. In Australia and
in Scandinavia it has been found to be more common in upper socio-economic
groups, possibly because these families can afford to spend more holiday time in
the sun or at the beach. It is also more common in native-born Australians than in
immigrants from the UK, Ireland or elsewhere, possibly because they were less
likely to have had sunburn in their childhood years in their countries of origin.
A strong family history is a significantly increased risk factor for melanoma
and the stronger the family history the greater the risk factor for other members
of the family. A previous history of other skin cancers is also an increased risk
factor for melanoma. There is also an increased risk in patients who are immunosupply following organ transplants and in AIDS patients.
The danger of melanoma lies in the fact that it tends to metastasise early to
draining lymph nodes and to distant organs like liver, lungs, bowel and brain.
The outlook has improved in recent years mainly because people in general,
and doctors in particular, are becoming more aware of the early indications of
melanoma and the need to treat it as early as possible. Most melanomas develop
in pre-existing moles in the skin but almost as many develop in areas of skin
without any pre-existing mole.
Melanoma sometimes develops in a long-standing, slowly-growing freckle of
older age people called a Hutchinson’s melanotic freckle.
In 5–10% of cases a melanoma will develop without pigment. This is known
as an amelanotic melanoma and can be diagnosed with confidence only by
microscopic examination. Amelanotic melanomas behave in a similar way to
pigmented melanomas and require similar treatment.

10.4.3

Early Features of Melanoma

Any evidence of increasing pigmentation in a spot in the skin, especially on
increase in size or pigmentation of a mole, must be regarded with suspicion. Other
early features may be itching or crusting of a mole. Bleeding and ulceration are

10.4 Melanoma

135

usually late features. Any of these features occurring either in a pre-existing
mole or in a newly developed pigmented spot, require immediate attention and if
there is any doubt, a biopsy should be taken. In most cases the most appropriate
biopsy procedure is for a surgeon to excise the whole lesion as an excision biopsy.
If an infiltrating melanoma is confi rmed by pathology, a wider excision with or
without lymphnode surgery should be scheduled. For large lesions, preliminary
incision biopsy is sometimes done. If the biopsy is positive, the surgeon can then
proceed with appropriate surgical treatment (Fig. 10.8).

Fig. 10.8. Photograph of two pigmented lesions in skin of a woman’s thigh. The larger lesion
proved to be a benign dysplastic junctional naevus but the smaller lesion was a melanoma.
This illustrates the need to obtain histological confirmation of suspicious lesions

E XE R C I S E
What features of a mole might indicate malignant change? (Sects. 10.8–10.11)

...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................

136

10

10

Skin Cancers

Fig. 10.9. This deeply pigmented lesion
in skin of a woman’s temple was not
a melanoma but a seborrhoeic keratosis (a benign pigmented or “senile”
wart). These are most common in
elderly people. After the fi rst such
wart develops sooner or later others
usually start to appear

Fig. 10.10. This Hutchinson’s melanotic
freckle was proven by biopsy to have
become malignant (melanoma)

10.4 Melanoma
Fig. 10.11. A typical
nodular melanoma

10.4.4

Treatments of Melanoma

10.4.4.1

Surgical Treatment

Surgical excision of early lesions offers the best prospect of cure. The melanoma
must be excised with a wide margin of normal tissue surrounding the melanoma
(at least 1 cm and at least 2 cm for thicker, more deeply invasive tumorus)
because melanoma cells are sometimes present in tissues or even in lymphatic
vessels surrounding the tumour. To determine whether there is involvement of
drawing lymph nodes, “Sentical” lymph node biopsy may be recommended. If
there is evidence of meta melanoma a sentivel lymph node or if metastatic disease
ininvasive lymph node is clinically apparent, a complete surgical densure of the
lymph node field is the standard treatment.

10.4.5 Investigations to Guide Surgical Treatment
10.4.5.1

Skin Penetration

The likelihood of spread of melanoma is directly related to the thickness and skin
penetration or infiltration of the tumour. Thin melanomas, i.e. less than 1 mm in
thickness, are unlikely to have spread to lymph nodes, whereas half of all melanomas greater than 4.0 mm in thickness, may have metastasised, especially to lymph
nodes. Penetration of skin by a melanoma is also recorded by the level of skin
involvement measured as Clark’s levels 1–5: Level 1 being a surface lesion only
with good prognosis and Level 5 being a melanoma that has completely penetrated
all skin layers and has a very guarded prognosis as metastasis is likely.
Ultrasound studies of enlarged lymph nodes are becoming highly reliable in
determining whether the node enlargement is caused by metastases.

137

138

10

10.4.5.2

10
Surgical
excision of
early lesions
oﬀers the
best prospect
of cure. The
melanoma
must be excised
with a wide
margin of
normal tissue
surrounding
the melanoma

Skin Cancers

Sentinel Node Biopsy

More recently, a test called “sentinel node biopsy” is used in specialised melanoma units. In cases where lymph nodes are normal size despite a distinct possibility of melanoma having spread to them rather than excising all local lymph
nodes “just in case they are involved”, lymphatic mapping by lymphoscintigraphy
may be carried out. This helps to detect localised nodes that are fi rst in line for
lymph-node drainage from the site of the melanoma. These are called the sentinel
nodes. In this test a radioactive isotope is injected adjacent to the melanoma and
nuclear scanning over the regional nodes will show which node or nodes are first
in line for drainage from the melanoma site. Marks are then made immediately
over the sentinel node or nodes so that the surgeon can remove these one or two
nodes for pathological examination. If melanoma cells are not found in sentinel
nodes, no further nodes are removed. If malignant cells are found in sentinel
nodes then block dissection of all that group of nodes is carried out because of
the risk that adjacent nodes might also be involved.
As well as lymphatic mapping using a radioactive isotope, a “blue dye test”,
may be used. The test is similar in that a blue dye (Patent blue or isosulphan
blue) is injected adjacent to the melanoma just or before operation. At operation the surgeon can then identify the blue-stained lymph nodes that drain the
melanoma site and these nodes are removed for microscopic examination for
melanoma cells.
Usually the blue dye test and the radioactive isotope test are done together to
be more certain of identifying the appropriate node or nodes for biopsy.

10.4.6 Other Treatments
In general, melanomas are not particularly sensitive to radiotherapy although
radiotherapy may be helpful in achieving worthwhile palliation in some situations such as for a metastasis in the brain and sometimes for other metastatic
deposits. An exception is in treating the rather uncommon uveal melanomas in
the eye. Responses have been good using application of a radioactive plaque
(containing a radioactive isotope such as iodine 125) for 5–7 days. More recently
in some centres a special form of external radiotherapy, proton-beam irradiation,
is also being used with good effect in treating a primary melanoma in an eye.
When oculor melanoma metastasises it most commonly spreads to the liver.
Occasionally metastatic melanoma in the liver can be excised depending on the
number and sites of the metastatic deposits.
Chemotherapy has in general been disappointing in treating melanoma.
Occasional beneficial responses have been observed but they are infrequent.
When advanced melanoma appears to be confi ned to one limb, treatment by more
concentrated regional chemotherapy using a special technique of closed-circuit
perfusion of the limb with high dose chemotherapy, usually achieves worthwhile
tumour regression, (see Sect. 8.3.4 in Chap. 8). A newer technique of “closed

10.4 Melanoma

139

circuit infusion” without needing a perfusion pump may be as effective as closedcircuit perfusion and is more easily carried out. In this technique a tourniquet is
applied to separate the circulation in a limb from the general circulation, the anticancer drugs are mixed with blood drawn from a vein in the limb and reinjected
into the main artery in the limb. This process is repeated several times for upto
30 min or so, thus avoiding the need for a continuous infusion pump.
Regional chemotherapy treatment is more effective if heat is used with the
chemotherapy and appears to be even more effective if the immunotherapy agent
tumour necrosis factor (TNF) is used with chemotherapy.
Reports of effective use of concomitant radiotherapy and chemotherapy, socalled “sandwich treatment” (see Sect. 8.3.4.11), have encouraged further studies
of this approach.
Immunotherapy is also sometimes used to treat advanced or widespread melanoma. Although occasional responses have been observed with general (systemic) immunotherapy, results have been inconsistent and early hopes of a possible new cure have not yet been fulfilled. Some encouraging results have been
reported in using Interleukin 2 in combination with other chemotherapy.
Work with chemotherapy and immunotherapy is continuing in large melanoma clinics in the hope of improving treatment techniques so that more reliable
treatment methods may be available for patients with advanced melanoma in
the future.

10.4.7 Vaccine Studies
There are also studies being conducted with the objective of fi nding an effective
protective anti-melanoma vaccine but as yet there is no preparation for safe,
reliable or effective clinical use.

C AS E R E P O R T

1. Thin Melanoma
Mr TD is a 46-year-old teacher. His grandparents had migrated from
Scotland to Australia. As a child, he had played outdoor sport and loved
the beach.
His wife noticed a new mole on his back about a year ago. Over the last
few months she noted that it was darker and had changed shape.
Mr TD went to his general practitioner (GP) who examined the mole and
found that it was 1 cm in diameter, was irregular in pigmentation and had
irregular borders. No axillary, groin or cervical lymphadenopathy was present.
(continued)

140

10

10

Skin Cancers

(continued)
The GP performed an excision biopsy of the whole lesion. The pathology
showed a melonoma 0.4 mm in thickness, Clark level 2, without ulceration and with only occasional mitotic figures (one mitosis per square
millimetre) indicating a comparatively low grade melanoma. A defi nitive wider excision was performed taking a 1 cm margin down to muscle
fascia.
It is now 5 years since operation. Mr TD remains well and returns
yearly to his GP for follow-up of his melanoma and for a full skin check.
2. Intermediate Thickness Melanoma
Mr LB is a 58-year-old solicitor who had lived all his life in Southern
California. He went to his GP for an annual health check. He was on
anti-hypertensive medication but is otherwise well. His GP noticed a
pigmented nodule on the right upper chest which was 8 mm in diameter
and irregular in shape. An excision biopsy was performed and pathology
showed a melonoma 2.5 mm in thickness, Clark level 4, with ulceration
present and four mitoses per square millimetre. Mr LB was referred to a
specialist surgical unit.
The surgeon recommended a wider excision of the primary melanoma
site (taking a 2 cm margin) and a sentinel node biopsy for staging purposes. Mr LB had a lymphoscintogram on the morning of his surgery and
then proceeded to the operating theatres. The lymphoscintogram showed
a single sentinel node in the right axilla.
Under general anaesthetic, Mr LB had 1 mL of Patent blue dye injected
intradermally around the primary melanoma site. The wider excision was
performed, then the sentinel node biopsy. The surgeon noted that there
was a blue lymphatic channel passing into the sentinel node, and the node
was blue stained and “hot” when measured with a gamma probe.
The pathology of the wider excision showed no further evidence of
malignancy and the sentinel node showed no evidence of metastatic melanoma. Mr LB was advised to present for regular follow-up for the melanoma. He remains well 3 years later with no evidence of residual melanoma and no evidence of metastatic decrease. Regular skin checks have
not found any new melanoma.
3. Metastatic Melanoma
Mr WM was a 66-year-old farmer. He had migrated to Australia from
Germany when he was 12 years old. He was a diabetic, controlled on
oral hypoglycaemics and was also on antihypertensive medication. He
had had a melanoma on his left lower thigh treated with a wider excision
only, 6 years earlier.
He visited his GP because he had noticed a lump in his left groin. The
GP found a 4 cm fi rm mass in the left groin, below the inguinal ligament.
(continued)

10.4 Melanoma

(continued)
It was mobile and not tender. The previous melanoma scar on the left lower
thigh appeared normal.
A fi ne needle biopsy of the mass showed cells consistent with metastatic melanoma. He was referred to a specialist surgical unit.
The surgeon recommended a left groin dissection and staging CT scans
of the brain, chest, abdomen and pelvis. The CT scans showed no evidence
of metastatic disease and Mr WM underwent a left lymph inguinal node
dissection. Of 25 lymph nodes examined the pathology showed only one
4 cm node involved with metastatic melanoma.
Postoperatively, Mr WM had a prolonged lymphatic leak from his
groin drain and went home with the drain still in-situ. The drain remained
in for 1 month. He had no adjuvant therapy.
Mr WM failed to return for his regular follow-up visits but returned
18 months later when he found a 2-cm lesion, two 1-cm lesions and three
smaller nodules in the skin of his right thigh and two small nodules in the
skin just below his left knee. Needle biopsies confi rmed the presence of
melanoma cells in these nodules. Mr WM had no other symptoms. Staging
CT scans of the brain, chest, abdomen and pelvis were again negative for
tumour. No other lesions were detected.
He was advised that it was almost certain that there would be other
undetected melanoma deposits elsewhere but especially in the left lower
limb. He was advised that rather than having many operations with increasing difficulty to excise and control new lesions as they arose in the
limb, one closed circuit infusion of concentrated chemotherapy to his limb
would be likely to control the melanoma in his limb.
Mr WM agreed and a closed circuit infusion of his left lower limb was
carried out. In this treatment a closed circuit was achieved using a torniquet
applied high around his left thigh and the chemotherapy agent was injected into
the femoral artery. Blood was extracted from the femoral vein and reinjected
with the femoral artery repeatedly for 30 min. The chemotherapy agent of
choice was melphalan and the temperature in the limb was increased to 39°C.
Post infusion a marked red reaction of the whole lower limb accrued
but slowly regressed. Over the next few weeks the tumour lumps also
regressed and completely disappeared.
Mr MW remained well for 14 months but a routine chest X-ray then
showed a suspicious mass in the right lung. New staging CT scans identified multiple liver metastases and multiple lung metastases, the largest of
which corresponded to the lesion found on the chest X-ray.
He was referred to a specialist melanoma oncologist who offered treatment with another chemotherapeutic agent (DTIC) but there was little
response and Mr WM died 5 months later from disseminated metastatic
melanoma.

141

142

10

10

Skin Cancers

EXERCISE
Why is melanoma regarded as generally more dangerous than other skin
cancers?

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

Lung Cancer (Bronchogenic Carcinoma)

11

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Symptoms
› Investigations
› Pathology
› Treatments
› Mesothelioma
› Metastatic cancer in the lung

Cancer of the lung has increased from being an uncommon disease 100 years
ago to one that, in the Western world, now causes more deaths than any other
cancer. Worldwide about 1 million cases are diagnosed every year and the
reported death rates are about 90% of the diagnosis rates. This rapid increase in
incidence is directly related to the widespread habit of cigarette smoking. The
disease in smokers is eight to ten times more common than in non-smokers.
With greater numbers of females smoking in recent years, the incidence of lung
cancer in women is now approaching that of men. In the United States, other
than skin cancer, lung cancer is now the second most common cancer in both
sexes together. In fact, in the US, lung cancer now causes more cancer deaths
than all colorectal, breast and prostate cancers combined (see Table 2.1). The
increase in numbers of people with lung cancers has followed by 20 years or
more behind the increase in tobacco consumption. Due to a slowly reduced
incidence of smoking in men in many Western countries (including the US and
Australia) over the last 30 years of the twentieth century lung cancer passed its
peak incidence in men between 1985 and 1990. However it continues to rise in
women, in whom smoking did not decline when it did in men.
Although tobacco smoking is by far the most significant cause of lung cancer,
a number of other factors may also play a part in some cases. These include
industrial and automobile pollutant gases. Workers in certain industries including chromium, arsenic and asbestos also have an increased incidence, especially
if they are also smokers.

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_11, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

143

144 1

11

1

Lung Cancer (Bronchogenic Carcinoma)

Diagnosis of lung cancers is most common in North America (especially in
black males) and in New Zealand (especially in Maoris). It is also very common
in the UK, Europe and Australia. It is least common in West and East Africa. It
is extremely rare under the age of 30 years and is rarely diagnosed before the age
of 40. Thereafter the incidence increases with increasing age. The median age of
diagnosis is between 65 and 70 years. In Western countries it is more common
in lower socio-economic groups than in higher socio-economic groups, probably
because smoking is more common in lower socio-economic group.
Pathological sub-types of lung cancer. There are four major histological types
of lung cancer. These are:
1. Small-cell lung cancer (SCLC)
2. Squamous cell cancer (SCC)
3. Adenocarcinoma and
4. Large-cell cancer
As the approach to clinical management of the last three cancer types is similar,
they are grouped together as non-small-cell lung cancers (NSCLC). Thus for clinical
and treatment purposes lung cancer is classified as either SCLC, or NSCLC.
SCLCs are generally more aggressive and patients have a median survival
time of about 18 months. Five-year survival is rare.
Localised NSCLC is potentially curable in its early stages by surgical resection but SCLC has invariably spread beyond resectable tissues when first diagnosed.
Not only is lung cancer now showing an increase in incidence in women due
to the relatively more recent uptake of the smoking habit by women, but women
with lung cancer also have a rather poorer prognosis than men with lung cancer.
This is because women have a higher proportion of SCLCs and adenocarcinoma
than men. Men have a higher proportion of SCCs of lung that are relatively less
aggressive and more likely to be resectable even though they are still potentially
curable in less than 25% of cases.

11.1
During its early
stages, lung
cancer causes
few problems, so
that it is usually
not diagnosed
until it is quite
advanced and
usually
incurable.

Symptoms

During its early stages, lung cancer causes few problems, so that it is usually not diagnosed until it is quite advanced and usually incurable. Perhaps
this is partly because of the nature of the sufferer who, being a smoker, is
adjusted to having a chronic cough and does not become aware of a change
in the cough until the disease is advanced. A cough is the most common
single symptom of lung cancer but other features are shortness of breath,
coughing up blood or bloodstained sputum (haemoptysis), chest pain and
attacks of chest infection or pneumonia that do not respond completely
with treatment.

11.2 Investigations

145

The fi rst evidence of lung cancer can also be due to spread of the cancer
causing metastases in lymph nodes, bone, brain or elsewhere. Sometimes lung
cancers produce hormones or other substances that may affect the sufferer as
a whole. These may result in changes in other parts of the body such as swelling of the breasts, changes in bones (osteoarthropathy), or fi ngernails (clubbing), or loss of nerve function often causing numbness or tingling sensations
(neuropathies).

11.2

Investigations

Chest X-rays sometimes show a lung cancer that has not been causing symptoms but in most cases by the time symptoms are present, X-rays will show the
cancer.
CT scans may also show more clearly the position and the size of a lung cancer
and enlarged lymph nodes in the mediastinum.
Bronchoscopy (Sect. 7.4.5) will often allow the doctor to see a lung cancer
and, if so, a biopsy may be taken. The biopsy specimen will be examined microscopically to confi rm that cancer is present and to fi nd out what sort of lung
cancer it is, and therefore how best to treat it (Fig. 11.1).
Sometimes a cancer cannot be seen through a bronchoscope but sputum can
be sucked out or coughed up and this can also be examined microscopically. This
is called cytology and this test will often show cancer cells if a cancer is present.
If a lump is seen on X-ray, sometimes it is possible to suck out cells for cytology
from the lump through a needle inserted through the chest wall.

a

b

Fig. 11.1. (a, b) Anteroposterior and lateral chest X-rays showing a primary lung cancer as
an increased white area in the apex of the right lung. Small metal sutures can be seen just
to the right of anterior-midline. These sutures remain after previous cardiac surgery

146 1

11

1

11.3

Lung Cancer (Bronchogenic Carcinoma)

Signiﬁcance of Histological Findings

The several types of lung cancer are all usually smoking related but the distinction between the two main groups SCLC and NSCLC is convenient for planning treatment. SCLSs (about 20% of all lung cancers) are usually widespread
when fi rst diagnosed and are therefore not treated by surgery. NSCLCs are
sometimes localised to their site of origin and some can be surgically excised
with a chance of cure. They are usually not very sensitive to chemotherapy
or radiotherapy.

11.4

Treatments

Unfortunately, most people with lung cancer do not go to a doctor until the
disease has spread from the lung into surrounding structures, lymph nodes
or other parts of the body. Most lung cancers are therefore probably incurable
at the time of diagnosis. For those with NSCCS, who do present for treatment early and are diagnosed when their cancers are small, the best results
are achieved by an operation to remove all or part of a lung. Yet even for
people whose cancers appear to have been totally resected, only about 25%
are cured in the long term.
Radiotherapy is sometimes used when surgery is unsuitable, but cure by
radiotherapy alone is very uncommon.
Chemotherapy and immunotherapy have had disappointing results against
lung cancer although newer anti-cancer drugs used in certain combinations and
in certain treatment programs by experts, can produce worthwhile improvement for some types of lung cancer. SCLCs will often respond temporarily to
chemotherapy or radiotherapy but long-term cure is a rarity. The improvement
may last for several months or even a year or two.
Studies continue to try to improve results with combined treatment schedules.
There is some hope that combinations of newer chemotherapy schedules used
with radiotherapy and/or surgery may have more to offer in the future. Such
combinations of drugs and other treatments are being investigated in a number
of leading cancer treatment centres throughout the world.

11.4 Treatments

C AS E R E P O R T
Lung Cancer
Alex was a 57-year-old man who attended his doctor because his “cough
would not settle down” and recently, after coughing, he had noticed
blood in his sputum. Alex had been a smoker for almost 30 years, using
20 cigarettes/day. His wife stated that she had been aware of his cough
for 2 or 3 years but it had become more persistent recently. He had lost
weight and had little energy over recent weeks. He recently had “the flu”
and in spite of taking antibiotics that were in the house the flu persisted
with his productive cough.
On examination the doctor could hear moist noises in both sides of
Alex’s chest and noticed some dullness with little air entry over the lower
right lung. An immediate chest X-ray showed a lesion in the lower right
mediastinum and lung.
Alex was referred to a thoracic surgeon who arranged a bronchoscopic
examination. A tumour growth was seen almost completely blocking the
right lower bronchus. A biopsy of the growth proved it to be a squamous
carcinoma.
The surgeon advised that he was prepared to attempt to resect the cancer but that would probably mean resecting the right lung and even then
the chances of cure would be less than 20%. The alternative treatments
would be radiotherapy or chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy with a
good chance of improving Alex’s symptoms for possibly a few months but
unlikely to achieve long-term success.
Alex chose to have operation but it proved not possible to resect the
cancer that had involved mediastinal lymph nodes. Alex was then given
chemotherapy but developed nausea, loss of hair and bone-marrow depression (a fall in both platelets and white blood cells). Chemotherapy
was suspended with the intention of treating the cancer with radiotherapy
when Alex was well enough but Alex declined to have further treatment.
He died 4 months after the cancer was fi rst diagnosed.

147

148 1

11

1

11.5

Lung Cancer (Bronchogenic Carcinoma)

Mesothelioma

Mesothelioma is a rare form of cancer that predominantly affects males over 60
years. There is a male to female ratio of about 3–1. Mesothelioma is well known
to industrial workers because when it does occur it is often in people who have
been exposed to asbestos in their work. Asbestos workers who are also smokers
are particularly at risk. Protective industrial laws for asbestos workers have now
made this a less common cancer although the cancer can develop years after the
patient has stopped working with asbestos.
Mesothelioma is not truly a cancer of the lung; it is a cancer of the pleura
surrounding and lining the lungs. It may rarely occur in other lining tissues such
as the lining of the peritoneal cavity – the peritoneum. Mesothelioma may present with cough, chest infection, difficulty with breathing or chest pain. A tumour
lump may be felt or seen on X-ray or CT studies.
Mesothelioma is difficult to diagnose and to treat. To confi rm its diagnosis
requires a panel of immuno-histochemical stains. It is usually too widespread
and advanced to treat by surgery and it usually does not respond well to either
radiotherapy or chemotherapy. Combinations of chemotherapy, radiotherapy and
surgery are used but significant and worthwhile responses are uncommon.
Sadly the best treatment is often simply to give the patient best relief from
symptoms while the tumour slowly progresses.

11.6

Metastatic Cancer in the Lung

The lungs are among the organs most commonly the site of metastatic growths
spread from primary cancers that developed in other parts of the body. Cancers
from almost any primary site are likely to spread through the bloodstream to
the lungs, especially from cancers of the breast, kidney, bone, ovary or from a
sarcoma or a melanoma. These usually show as a number of rounded opacities
(white spots) seen in chest X-rays although sometimes, especially from the kidney or a sarcoma, a metastasis may be single showing as just one round white
spot or lump resembling a “cannon ball” in the X-ray. Treatment depends upon
the type of cancer that has spread to the lung A solitary metastasis can sometimes
be resected with possible cure but solitary metastases are rare and in general
anti-cancer drugs are likely to be more helpful than any other anti-cancer treatment. However, because cure is unlikely, treatment with risk of troublesome side
effects may or may not be considered worthwhile (Fig. 11.2).
Sometimes primary or metastatic cancer in the lung will cause fluid to collect
around the lung in the pleural cavity. This is a pleural effusion. Pleural effusion
causes shortness of breath and difficulty with breathing due to pressure on the
lung. Sometimes patients will achieve good, although temporary, relief if their

11.6 Metastatic Cancer in the Lung

a

149

b

Fig. 11.2. (a, b) Anteroposterior and lateral chest X-rays showing multiple metastatic
cancer deposits as scattered white areas in the otherwise dark lung tissue

doctor aspirates this fluid from the pleural cavity with a needle and syringe. After
the fluid is aspirated an injection of an anti-cancer drug into the pleural cavity
may slow the rate of further fluid accumulating.
E XE R C I S E
List reasons why lung cancer has such a poor prognosis.

...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................

12

Breast Cancer
•

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Incidence, causes and general features
› Hormone replacement therapy (HRT)
› Symptoms
› Cancer of the male breast
› Signs
› Investigations
› Breast cancer staging
› Treatments
› Prevention
› Early breast cancer
› Surgery and/or radiotherapy
› Adjuvant chemotherapy
› Advanced breast cancer
› Physical and emotional needs
› Prostheses and breast reconstruction
› Breast clinics
› Breast cancer support organisations

Breast cancer became much more common in Western societies over the twentieth
century. Apart from skin cancer it is now the most common cancer affecting
women in most European countries, Britain, The United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand (see Appendix).
In some of the above countries, the incidence of breast cancer appears
to have levelled off but the incidence of lung cancer in women continues to
increase, so that the incidence of lung cancer is now approaching the incidence
of breast cancer. Because more women with breast cancer can be cured than
women with lung cancer, in some countries, including the US, lung cancer is
now responsible for more cancer deaths in women than breast cancer or any

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_12, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

151

152

12

A strong family
history is a
prominent
risk factor for
breast cancer.

12 B reast Cancer

other cancer (see Table 2.1). Not only did the incidence of breast cancer continue to increase during the twentieth century, was also diagnosed at an earlier
stage, partly due to increased awareness and increased use of mamographic
screening. This resulted in a greater likelihood of the cancer being diagnosed
at a curable stage.
In North America, Northern Europe, Australia and New Zealand breast cancer is about five times more common than in women of most Asian or African
countries. However, women of Asian or African ethnic origin who have lived
all their lives in the US or other developed Western countries have a risk of
breast cancer similar to other women of those countries. This suggests that the
predominant influence is environment, social and other customs, or very likely
diet of those countries rather than a racial or genetic influence. About one in nine
American women will develop breast cancer during her lifetime, assuming a life
expectancy of 80 years.
Although occasionally seen in women in their 20s or even rarely in teenagers,
breast cancer is not common until after the age of 40 and becomes increasingly
common with age. The average age for women fi rst presenting with breast cancer
is about 60 years.
The cause of breast cancer is unknown, but a number of associated factors
have been noticed. Probably the one most significant factor is the age of a woman
when she has her fi rst baby. Having a baby at an early age seems to give some
protection to a mother. Breast cancer is least common in women who had their
fi rst babies as teenagers and significantly more common in women who did not
have their fi rst baby until after the age of 35 years. Women who have not had any
babies, such as nuns, have a greater risk of breast cancer.
The age of a woman when she experienced her fi rst menstrual period and the
age at menopause are also significant. Early menstruation and late menopause are
both associated with increased risk of breast cancer. It does seem that the longer
the woman’s reproductive life cycle the greater the risk of development of breast
cancer. This may be due to a more repeated and prolonged exposure to ovarian
production of oestrogen.
There may also be some protection in women who breastfeed their babies
although the evidence for this is less clear. Women who live in undeveloped countries tend to breastfeed their babies for many months and have a low risk of breast
cancer. However these women also usually have had their fi rst baby at a young
age and have a very different lifestyle including very different diets.
There is an association between breast cancer and being overweight, lack of
exercise and smoking tobacco, although the association with tobacco smoking is
not as strong as it is with lung cancer. Some studies have reported an association
of breast cancer with a high-fat diet, particularly saturated animal fats, although
this has not been found in all such studies. Breast trauma too has sometimes been
suspected but it is really not known whether injury may cause a breast cancer.
Although after injury some women fi rst notice a lump that is found to be breast
cancer, it is likely that in most cases the injury simply drew attention to a lump
that was already present. Injuries may, of course, cause other types of lumps

12.1 Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT)

in the breast that are not cancer, for example a haematoma or a lump due to fat
necrosis.
A strong family history is a prominent risk factor for breast cancer. The highest risk is related to having fi rst-degree relatives with breast cancer, especially
if pre-menopausal at the time of diagnosis. About 10% of breast cancers are
considered familial, and of these BRCA1 and BRCA2 tumour suppressor genes
(Chap. 2) account for about two-thirds. There are probably additional higher risk
genes, as yet unidentified. Environmental influences including diet are also more
likely to be similar in women of these families, so that genetic relationships are
not always clear.
It was once believed that fibro-cystic disease (also known as fibro-adenosiscystica, benign mammary dysplasia, hormonal mastopathy or “chronic mastitis”) was a strong precursor of breast cancer but more recent studies have found a
modest increased risk only. However if there are histological features of atypical
hyperplasia the risk is substantially increased. Because both fibro-cystic disease
and breast cancer are common, making a diagnosis of breast cancer in a woman
who already has lumpy breasts from other causes may present difficulties.
After the atomic bomb explosions at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, an increase
in numbers of women with breast cancer was reported but the increase was not
apparent until some years after the event.
Tobacco smoking has also been associated with an increased incidence of
women with breast cancer but the increase is usually apparent only in women
who have been smoking for 20 or 30 years.
In practical terms, other than regular self-examination, routine mammography every 2 years for women over 50, (or more often in women who belong
to special risk groups), remains the best early detection measure against breast
cancer at the present time. An annual mammogram may be advisable for women
with a previous history of breast cancer, or a strong family history of breast cancer. Increasingly, in some countries, breast cancer is being diagnosed by screening mammography before a lump can be felt and before the onset of discomfort
or other local feature. Ultrasound of the breast is mostly useful for patients with
a palpable mass that is not seen in mammograms or to help determine whether a
lump is solid or cystic. It is also more likely to help screening in pre-menopausal
women and safe to use in pregnancy. It is far superior to mammography or physical examination in evaluating lymph nodes for possible metastases and can be
helpful in directing a needle into a suspected lesion for needle biopsy.

12.1

Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT)

Using oestrogen or oestrogen-progesterone medication to relieve menopausal
and postmenopausal symptoms, has been incriminated as increasing the risk
of breast cancer. The increased risk of small doses of hormones is small but
nevertheless significant in most women, and considerable for women with pre-

153

154

12

12 B reast Cancer

disposing factors. Therefore HRT is reserved for women who experience severe
menopausal or postmenopausal problems that cannot be relieved in any other
way and even then, small doses are usually given for a limited period only and
the woman kept under regular monitoring. Meanwhile studies continue to try to
fi nd something equally effective, but without risk, to relieve these menopausal
symptoms. One study under investigation is with the use of naturally occurring
hormones, the phytoestrogens which are present in all plant foods but especially
in legumes such as soybeans.
There is a reduced risk in women who have a high intake of fruit, vegetables,
nuts, grains and other plant foods, especially if they are complete vegans (see
Sects. 2.5 and 2.12 in Chap. 2).

12.2

Symptoms

Breast cancer is usually fi rst noticed by a woman fi nding a painless lump in
one breast. The most common situation is in the upper outer quadrant of the
breast (Fig. 12.1a).
The majority of breast lumps are not cancer, but when a lump is fi rst noticed in
a breast the woman should seek medical advice without delay. Usually she should
be sent for further investigation or a specialist opinion.
As a general rule a solitary breast lump fi rst noticed in a woman under 50 is
rather more likely to be benign but a solitary lump fi rst noticed in a woman over
50 is likely to be malignant. However any lump in a breast or any other change in
a breast should be checked out.
A reddish nipple that looks rather like an abrasion of the nipple may be early
Paget’s disease of the nipple and this may be an indication of an underlying breast
cancer (Fig. 12.1b).
Women with breast cancer may be aware of a change in the position or shape
of a nipple (called retraction or inversion) (Fig. 12.1c); redness, and puckering or
ulceration of skin over the breast (especially if over a lump).
These are sometimes features of breast cancer noticed either by the woman
herself or by her doctor. Other features may be discharge of blood from a nipple
or discharge of other fluid from a nipple not associated with a pregnancy or lactation, redness of a nipple or a change in size of one breast.
Occasionally breast cancer may fi rst be discovered after fi nding a lump in an
axilla or a metastasis in another organ such as the lungs (seen in a chest X-ray),
liver or bone.

12.2 S ymptoms

155

a

b

c

Fig. 12.1. (a) An outline of a breast
lump noticed by the 43-year-old
woman in the bath. It proved to be a
cancer. (b) Paget’s disease of a nipple
indicating an underlying breast cancer. Typically the woman had a small
dressing over the nipple believing it
to be an infection or a small sore.
(c) A recently “inverted nipple” in
this woman was the fi rst indication of
an underlying breast cancer

156

12

12 B reast Cancer

12.3

Inﬂammatory Breast Cancer

Occasionally the fi rst indication of breast cancer is a red inflamed breast very
like acute mastitis (Fig. 12.2). If this change develops for no apparent reason or
does not settle down after a week or 10 days of appropriate treatment (including
antibiotics), the possibility of an underlying cancer must be considered and a
biopsy taken.
Inflammatory breast cancer is an uncommon but aggressive form of cancer.
The diagnosis is more obvious when it occurs in older women not associated
with pregnancy or lactation but can be very difficult to diagnose in pregnant
or lactating women because it can easily be confused with mastitis. Treatment
needs to be aggressive as for other advanced breast cancers but the outlook must
be very guarded.

12.4

Cancer of the Male Breast

Less than one per cent of all breast cancers are in males, but when they do occur
they show up and behave in a similar way to cancer in female breasts. The outlook
for breast cancer in males is usually worse than for females, possibly because
men are more likely to delay seeking medical advice.

Fig. 12.2. Photograph showing an “inflammatory” cancer in the left breast of a young
woman. If it occurs during or after a recent pregnancy it can easily be confused with
mastitis

12.6 Investigations

12.5

Signs

Typical features of breast cancer are a lump that is hard, often irregular in outline
and possibly fixed to skin, muscle or other tissue. Other signs include retraction of
a nipple, Paget’s disease of a nipple, nipple blood stained discharge or a dimpling
of the skin over a lump (there may be multiple small dimples in an area of skin
like orange peel and known as peau d’orange). These may have first been noticed
by the patient herself or fi rst detected by her doctor. Lymph nodes in the axilla
or elsewhere must be examined for evidence of enlargement. Examination will
include examination of the chest and abdomen for possible evidence of lumps
or spread into other organs such as lungs, liver, ovaries or bone.

12.6

157

Investigations

Screening tests for breast cancer have been discussed in Chap. 7.
For a woman who presents with a breast lump, a number of investigations may
be arranged to discover whether it is cancer. Mammograms may show the size,
position and type of lump and the general condition of the breast. Ultrasound and
CT scans usually give little further information unless cysts are present. Ultrasound is safer to use in younger and pregnant women. Ultrasound is also better at
demonstrating lesions in the more dense breasts of younger women and it better
demonstrates the presence of cysts.
If a breast lump is thought to be cancer from the initial examination, and especially if it is an advanced cancer, other general investigations may be needed. These
may include chest X-rays, liver CT or scan and bone scan to look for evidence of
possible spread to lungs liver or bone. Results should be known before any major
breast surgery is carried out. Involvement of any of these organs may sometimes
indicate the need for some form of treatment other than removal of all or part of the
breast, because cure would not be achieved by removing the breast.
The most important investigation is a biopsy. In many cases a pathologist
will perform a needle biopsy on an outpatient basis. Sometimes it is better for a
surgeon to take a larger biopsy specimen taking a core of tissue with a special
instrument or even cutting out a piece of the lump in an operating theatre. This
is the most reliable method of diagnosis. If a surgical biopsy is carried out and
frozen-section pathology technique confi rms a diagnosis of cancer, the surgeon
can operate without further delay provided the patient has been appropriately
prepared. However this approach is becoming less common. In most clinics it
is preferred to establish a diagnosis and staging of the cancer and, with this
information, discuss appropriate options with the patient before any treatment
intervention is started.

Typical features
of breast cancer
are a lump that
is hard, often
irregular in
outline and
possibly ﬁxed
to skin, muscle
or other tissue.

158

12

12 B reast Cancer

12.6.1 Breast Cancer Staging
Clinicians depend on skilled pathologists to classify cancers and to decide on
likely prognosis and which treatment option is most likely to achieve a best
result. Information that may be supplied by the pathologist has been discussed
in Chap. 6.
To make a final determination of tumour staging after tumour removal the
pathologist should also provide the dimensions of the cancer removed, and whether
the surgical margins are clear of the edge of the tumour. The pathologist will also
provide the oestrogen-receptor and progesterone-receptor fi ndings. These may
indicate the likelihood of hormone sensitivity of the cancer.
Stage 1 breast cancer is a small lump that is confi ned to the breast and should
be eminently curable by removal of the breast or the part of the breast in which
it is located.
Stage 2 breast cancer is when the primary cancer is less than 5 cm in diameter
and has spread into adjacent lymph nodes that are still mobile but there is no
evidence of spread beyond.
Stage 3 breast cancer is when there is a large cancer in the breast and/or
involvement of overlying skin and/or involvement and adherence to underlying
muscle and/or axillary lymph nodes are adherent to surrounding tissues, but
there is no evidence of spread into more distant organs or tissues.
Stage 4 breast cancer is when there is metastatic spread into more distant
organs or tissues. These cancers are clearly not curable by treatment of the breast
alone (Fig. 12.3).

12.7

Treatments

Treatment of breast cancer will largely depend upon whether the cancer was
detected early and is likely to be cured by surgery or surgery with radiotherapy
and other local treatment, or whether it is so advanced that cure by treatment of
the breast alone is impossible.

12.8

Prevention

There is no known practical way of preventing breast cancer. However studies
of the use of the anti-oestrogen hormone compound Tamoxifen, given in small
doses over a prolonged period of years, will reduce the risk of breast cancer
developing in women at special risk. It may be recommended in women with a
high incidence of the disease in their immediate family or those who have already
had cancer in one breast. However the fi nal results of such trials and any possible long-term risks of this treatment are not yet fully known. Long-term use of

12.8 Prevention

159

Fig. 12.3. An advanced and neglected
fungating breast cancer. The patient
was a 55-year-old woman who had
not previously sought medical help
due to fear of having confi rmed
what she suspected but had been
trying to deny that she had a breast
cancer. Such seemingly irrational
behaviour is not uncommon even in
very intelligent people who might
appear to be well adjusted in every
other way

Tamoxifen has been shown to be associated with an increased development of
cancer in the uterus and also a possible risk of thrombosis. More recent studies
have shown that a new drug raloxifene, (Evista), has similar cancer prevention
properties apparently with less risk of these long-term side effects.

EX ERCISE
What local features of a breast might be suggestive of breast cancer?
(Fig. 12.4)

...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................

160

12 B reast Cancer

12

Fig. 12.4. Diagrams illustrating the four “stages” of breast cancer

Treatment of
breast cancer
will largely
depend upon
whether the
cancer was
detected early.

Further studies are based on the fact that women in Asian countries have a
lower incidence of breast cancer, other breast problems and post-menopausal
syndrome, than women in Western societies. As previously mentioned, Asian
women have a diet high in certain leguminous plants that contain relatively
high quantities of phytoestrogens. Studies are underway to determine whether
the phytoestrogens, and especially the isoflavones in phytoestrogens, reduce
the risk of breast diseases including cancer (see Sect. 2.13 in Chaps. 2 and
Sect. 3.5 in 3).
Lycopene (Chaps. 2 and 3) is another “natural” agent being studied for possible anti-cancer or cancer-preventive potential. At the time of writing this book
it is too early to speculate whether this or other agents will develop a place in
cancer-prevention therapeutics but encouraging studies continue.

12.9

Pathology

There are two main types of breast cancer depending upon whether the cancer
developed in breast ducts (duct carcinoma), or in the breast lobules at the end
of the ducts (lobular carcinoma). Although either may present in a non-invasive
in situ stage before becoming invasive, lobular carcinoma is more likely to
become invasive at an earlier stage and is more likely to be bilateral, especially
in younger women.

12.10 Early Breast Cancer
Fig. 12.5. Diagram
showing phases of
development of breast
cancer

Duct carcinoma, which is more common, may remain in situ for a period
before it develops into invasive cancer (Fig. 12.5).

12.10

Early Breast Cancer

12.10.1

Surgery and/or Radiotherapy

There has been much controversy in deciding the best treatment for early breast
cancer. For years, surgeons believed that for stage 1 or a small stage 2 breast cancer,
the best chance of cure was by total removal of the breast and all draining axillary lymph nodes. This operation, radical mastectomy, used for many years,
undoubtedly cured many women of breast cancer but it was probably unnecessarily radical for many women.
Later studies showed that for early breast cancer, results of treatment were just as
good if the breast only was removed and lymph nodes were treated by radiotherapy.

161

162

12

12 B reast Cancer

A number of non-radical breast saving treatment options can now be offered
for treatment of early breast cancer (stage 1 and 2) with equally satisfactory
prospects of cure.
For small in situ breast cancers local removal of the lump with some surrounding tissue and followed by radiotherapy to the breast is good treatment.
If a breast cancer is showing early evidence of becoming invasive then either
removal of that segment of the breast or total breast removal will give equally
good results. Radiotherapy is given post-operatively in case there is further
cancer in the breast.
With invasive breast cancer, which shows no clinical evidence of lymph-node
involvement, it is important to investigate lymph nodes in case there is microscopic
cancer cell invasion, even though the nodes are not enlarged. This is now done by
removing one or more “samples” of the closest axillary nodes and having them
examined microscopically. If no cancer cells are found in the lymph nodes then
no further lymph-node treatment may be indicated. But if cancer cells are found
in the nodes then total removal of all axillary lymph nodes is recommended. The
cancer is then classified as a pathology stage 2 cancer and adjuvant treatment with
chemotherapy or hormone therapy is usually indicated (as discussed below).
More recently the technique of sentinel node biopsy is often used to detect
and examine the most likely lymph nodes to contain tumour cells. (This was
discussed in relation to melanoma Chap. 10, Sect 10.4.)
For treatment of possible or proven involvement of axillary lymph nodes, surgical excision is now usually regarded as the preferred option. Although radiotherapy is generally used as follow-up treatment to the breast area, radiotherapy
to the axilla is better avoided after surgery to the axilla because of the high
incidence of impairment of shoulder movement and of subsequent lymphoedema
of the arm that can follow.
Thus there are now different options for treatment without total mastectomy
that have been shown to have equally good prospects of cure in most patients.
Patients should be offered a choice of the treatment options.
In most cases long-term results are equally good if only that part of the breast,
which contains the lump, is removed and radiotherapy is administered following
the surgery.
It is important to learn of the woman’s personal attitude to her breasts and to
her cancer. Some women regard their breasts as being crucial to their self-image
and femininity. For such women, if equally satisfactory results can be offered
without removing the whole breast, this would be preferable. To other women, a
breast is not so important and if a breast has a cancer in it they would prefer to
have the breast totally removed. Because in most cases long-term results have
been equally satisfactory, the patient’s wishes should be discussed with her and
taken into consideration.
Most women do not wish to lose an entire breast unless the surgeon can assure
them that this is essential in order to achieve best prospect of cure. In most cases
no such assurance can be given. In fact, most women can be assured that their
prospects of cure would be just as good with partial breast removal provided

12.10 Early Breast Cancer

163

radiotherapy is administered to remaining breast tissue and all axillary draining
lymph nodes are removed if there is pathology evidence of node involvement.

12.10.2

Adjuvant Chemotherapy

Whatever the initial form of treatment given, in a number of women with breast
cancer apparently confi ned to the breast and possibly nearby lymph nodes, there
will also be early but undetectable spread of some cancer cells to other parts of
the body. Adjuvant chemotherapy will improve the outlook for these women.
The most common sites for such spread are the lungs, distant nodes, liver,
ovaries and bones but almost any tissue may be a site for a secondary cancer. If chemotherapy is given at this stage, the very small clumps of scattered cancer cells, if
present, are more likely to be destroyed than if they are allowed to get bigger before
any potentially effective treatment is given. In women who have had an early breast
cancer removed but the cancer has also been found in the axillary lymph nodes,
or the cancer is histologically anaplastic and high grade, or is greater than 2 cm
diameter, especially in a young woman, or it is a hormone receptor negative poor
prognosis cancer, there is a real chance that it has spread. Although there may be no
proof of spread, the risk that it may have spread is significant, therefore a program
of adjuvant chemotherapy is usually given after the operation just in case there are
still some cancer cells somewhere (see Sect. 8.3.4). Women given adjuvant treatment are up to 10% less likely to have future metastatic cancer and are therefore
more likely to be cured. Adjuvant chemotherapy, must be given skilfully and the
effects watched closely as side effects are common.

12.10.3

Hormone Sensitivity Tests

Not all breast cancers will respond to hormone therapy. Nowadays, when a
breast biopsy is taken and found to be cancer, a small piece is usually tested for
hormone sensitivity (called the oestrogen and progesterone receptor or ER and
PR tests). These tests will give an indication as to whether the cancer is likely
to respond to hormone manipulation. If not then some other form of treatment,
as for example cytotoxic chemotherapy, may be more appropriate.
In general patients with ER−ve tumours should be treated with adjuvant chemotherapy as their cancers are unlikely to respond well to hormonal management. Patients with ER+ve tumours are likely to get a favourable response to hormonal management and are usually better treated with tamoxifen if their tumour
is of intermediate or high risk. Adjuvant chemotherapy is also better tolerated by
younger rather than older women. In older age groups tamoxifen is unlikely to be
toxic and is better tolerated so that for elderly and frail women tamoxifen may be
the preferred adjuvant treatment regardless of hormone receptor fi ndings.
Recent trials have indicated that another group of agents, called aromatase
inhibitors (anastrozole, arimidex, letrozole, exemestane) are even more effective

Radio-therapy
to the axilla is
better avoided
after surgery
to the axilla
because of the
high incidence
of impairment
of shoulder
movement and
of sub-sequent
lymphoedema
of the arm that
can follow.

164

12

12 B reast Cancer

than tamoxifen for postmenopausal women with metastatic cancer or women
who have had their ovaries removed as treatment for metastatic breast cancer.

12.10.4

Options in Management of Early Breast Cancer

There is no one best management of early breast cancer. Depending on circumstances the options for integrated management are as follows:

• Removal of the breast or that part of the breast containing the cancer.
• This to be followed by irradiation of the remaining breast tissue or chest region
from which the breast was removed.

• Sentinel node biopsy.
• Total excision of axillary nodes if tumour was found in any lymph node or if
the primary cancer was large and/or infiltrating and aggressive.

• Adjuvant chemotherapy if there was cancer in any lymph node, or if the primary cancer was infiltrating and aggressive or greater than 2 cm diameter, or
if ER/PR−ve (especially in younger women).
• Hormone management (usually with Tamoxifen) if the cancer was ER/PR+ve.
Studies continue to determine more precisely which combinations of therapy should
be recommended for treatment of a particular cancer in a particular patient.

12.11

Locally Advanced and Metastatic Breast Cancers

For women who present for treatment with advanced breast cancer, such as cancer
fungating (ulcerating) through the skin or cancer adherent to underlying muscles
or cancer with distant metastatic spread to other tissues or organs, cure cannot be
achieved by standard local surgery alone. Sometimes chemotherapy or radiotherapy
or both may be given fi rst to reduce the tumour size. Sometimes this may be
followed by surgical removal of the breast to prevent further local growth or fungation. (Chemotherapy given before planned surgery and/or radiotherapy is a form of
induction or neoadjuvant chemotherapy. See Chap. 8.) If the cancer was clinically
a stage 3 cancer without evidence of metastatic spread sometimes a cure can result
from this form of combined, integrated treatment. But in case there is undetected
metastatic spread further follow-up adjuvant chemotherapy is also given.
However for such advanced local cancers with distant metastases in other
tissues, the best palliation may often be achieved by some form of hormonal
treatment or by chemotherapy alone or with radiotherapy (as discussed in
Chap. 8). In many cases metastases will respond well to localised radiotherapy
giving at least temporary pain relief. This is especially appropriate for isolated
painful metastases in bones.

12.12 Physical and Emotional Needs

Two further treatments may be helpful for pain relief from bone metastases.
These are bisphosphonates or with radio-isotopes strontium 89 or samarium 153
(see Sect. 8.6.2 Treatment of Complications).
Strontium 89 is a beta-emitting radioisotope that becomes incorporated in
bone metastases causing local tumour cell destruction and pain relief. Being
poorly penetrating irradiation it is unlikely to cause damage to other tissues other
than nearby bone marrow. Before the treatment can be safely repeated care must
be taken to ensure that any blood count depression, and especially platelet depression, has fully recovered. Samarium 153 is used similarly to Strontium 89.
In addition to pain relief, treatment of other complications may be required.
Such treatment may include using a syringe to aspirate fluid from the chest (pleural cavity) blood transfusions to relieve symptoms of anaemia and always psychological or spiritual support.
Real progress is being made in three new approaches in breast cancer treatment, including development of various anti-enzymes involved in cancer-cell
development. These include enzymes called signal-transduction inhibitors,
related to relevant breast cancer growth factors.
Herceptin (Trastuzumab) is a prototype of successful development of therapeutic monoclonal antibodies (See Sect. 8.4.2 in Chap. 8). Herceptin has already
been shown to improve survival, possibly by 30%, when given in combination
with chemotherapy. It is now under study as adjuvant therapy. Other treatments
under investigation are the tyrosine-kinase inhibitors such as Gleevec, Iressa,
OSI 774; farnesyl transferase inhibitors; and angiogenesis inhibitors.
Another new approach is with gene therapy in which abnormal genetic material in cancer cells is replaced with non-malignant genetic material. At the time
of writing techniques being developed to make gene therapy clinically effective
are causing a great deal of research interest.

12.12

Physical and Emotional Needs

12.12.1

Breast Prostheses and Breast Reconstruction

After loss of a breast, many women feel quite depressed and even humiliated and
require sympathetic help and understanding. Emotional depression to a greater
or lesser degree is almost inevitable after breast cancer treatment and further
depression following radiotherapy is common. Fortunately the most severe stage
of depression is usually temporary and improvement is usual after treatment has
been completed but it may take longer.
One obvious aid is the provision of a breast prosthetic padding to wear in a brassiere
or in a swimming costume. Many good appliances are now available that allow normal
activity, even swimming, without detection. This is good for the woman’s morale.
In other cases, reconstructive surgery may be considered to form a new breast.
In the past these procedures were usually not advised until at least a couple of

165

166

12

12 B reast Cancer

years after mastectomy, in order to be as sure as possible that no further local
tumour recurrence was likely, but more recent studies suggest that immediate
reconstruction does not present any long term disadvantage. Some surgeons are
now offering immediate reconstructive surgery to replace the breast immediately
after its removal, with equally satisfactory results.
Some women do not choose to have any further surgery but to others breast
reconstructive procedures offer considerable emotional support and very good
cosmetic results can now be achieved (see Figs. 12.6a, b).

a

b

Fig. 12.6. Photographs (a) before and (b) after breast reconstruction surgery. The reconstructed breast can be of very good appearance and will give the patient considerable
mental, physical and emotional support

12.12 Physical and Emotional Needs

12.12.2

167

Breast Clinics

Because of the high incidence of breast cancer in Western Societies and the broad
range of skills needed to best detect, manage and follow up patients often needing
integrated treatments for both clinical, emotional and supportive care, specialised
“Breast Clinics” have become widespread throughout most Western countries. These
involve not only diagnostic facilities and clinical medical specialists but also special
breast care nurses, physiotherapists and social workers in a team approach.

12.12.3

Cancer Societies and Breast Cancer Support Groups

Emotional support and understanding of family and friends is essential for most
women who have had a breast cancer especially after a mastectomy. As breast
cancer is one of the most common cancers in Western Societies many cities will
have a breast cancer support club (previously called a mastectomy club). Women
who have lost a breast are welcome to join. The companionship and advice from
fellow club members or from experienced professionals of a Cancer Society can
be of great help in coping with both physical and emotional needs of patients
(Sects. 8.6.3–8.6.5 and Chap. 9).

CASE REPORT
Early breast cancer
Sylvia is a 52-year-old lady who has had three children. She breast-fed all
three. She is otherwise fit and well and went through the change of life
at 46 years of age. She was placed on hormone replacement therapy for
post-menopausal symptoms and has been attending the Breast Screen Unit
annually from the age of 50. She regularly self-examines herself and there
is no family history of breast cancer. She is on no regular medications.
She attended the Breast Screen Assessment Unit, where a screening
mammogram with two views showed an area of spiculation in the upper
outer quadrant of the left breast at the 2 o’clock position, 4 cm from the
nipple. When she was examined by the surgeon in the breast-screening
unit she was found to have some thickening of the breast in the left upper
outer quadrant. The rest of the left breast was normal to examination with
no tethering or peau d’orange. Her right breast was normal to examination.
She had no evidence of axillary or supraclavicular lymphadenopathy and
no bony tenderness. An ultrasound was performed of both breasts especially concentrating on the area in the left upper outer quadrant and
(continued)

168

12

12 B reast Cancer

(continued)
she was noted to have a hypo-echoic (solid) lesion with an irregular margin.
Clinically and radiologically, she had a lesion that was graded most likely
to be breast cancer so she underwent core biopsy. The core biopsy returned
a grade 2 invasive ductal carcinoma, which was ER and PR+ve.
The surgeon discussed management options for her disease. He recommended wide local excision followed by 6 weeks of adjuvant radiotherapy.
To stage the axilla, he recommended a sentinel lymph node biopsy. Adjuvant
hormone therapy and chemotherapy would be considered once the surgery
had been performed.
A bone scan showed no evidence of any bone metastases. She was
booked in for her surgery and had a wide excision and sentinel lymph
node biopsy. The margins of excision were clear and the sentinel lymph node
was negative for any micro-metastases and negative for cytokeratin staining for epithelial cells. The fi nal tumour pathology was a 21 mm, grade 2,
invasive ductal tumour that was ER/PR+ve and HER 2−ve (see Chap. 6).
She was seen at the Multidisciplinary Clinic by the radiation oncologist
and medical oncologist, where there was discussion of the use of adjuvant
chemotherapy, in addition to Tamoxifen. In view of her young age, the
infiltrating nature of the ductal cancer, the cancer was more than 2 cm in
diameter and her expressed wish to have any treatment that might help her
outcome she underwent 6 weeks of radiotherapy and this was followed by
four cycles of adriamycin and cyclophosphamide chemotherapy over 3
months. Following this, Tamoxifen was commenced for the next 5 years.
Sylvia will be followed-up in the fi rst instance every 3 months to
exclude local recurrence and then 6 monthly for 2 years. Thereafter an
annual examination will be recommended for the rest of her life.

12.12 Physical and Emotional Needs

169

CASE REPORT
Breast cancer
Asha is a 40-year-old woman who was admitted to hospital after fi nding
a lump in her left breast. She is the mother of two children. Her menarche
was at 13 years. Her personal and family histories were unremarkable
but she had used oral contraceptives for several years. Mammography
revealed a 2.5 cm speculated lesion of left breast and the ultrasound confi rmed the presence of an irregular solid lesion. A needle biopsy confi rmed
the presence of malignancy.
She underwent a surgical excision as recommended. This consisted of
excision of the quadrant of breast containing the cancer (quadrantectomy)
and axillary node dissection. The fi nal histology showed an infiltrating
ductal carcinoma, measuring 2.6 cm. Hormone receptive studies showed
the tumour to be oestrogen positive (ER+) and progesterone receptor
negative (PR−). Tumour margins were clear She was given radiation therapy
to the left breast followed by six cycles of chemotherapy (anthracyclinebased) with good tolerance.
An adjuvant chemotherapy program was decided because axillary
lymph nodes were found to be positive for malignancy, Radiotherapy to
the axilla was avoided because of the high risk of impaired shoulder movement and of subsequent lymphoedema of the arm that can follow.
As the ER test was positive, she was given hormone therapy consisting
of tamoxifen for 5 years, after completion of radiation therapy.
She is kept under close and regular surveillance, which will be a lifelong recommendation.

EX ERCISE
Why is it so important to “follow up” breast cancer patients for virtually
as long as they live?

...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................

Cancers of the Digestive System
(Alimentary Tract)

•

13

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Cancer of the oesophagus
› Stomach cancer
› Cancers of the liver
› Primary liver cancer (hepatoma or hepatocellular carcinoma)
› Secondary (metastatic) liver cancer
› Cancer of the gall bladder and bile ducts
› Cancer of the pancreas
› Cancers of the small intestine
› Cancer of the large bowel (colon and rectum)
› Cancer of the anus

13.1

Cancer of the Oesophagus

Cancer of the oesophagus is a comparatively common disease in Eastern Asia,
especially China, and some African countries, particularly Southern African
countries, including South Africa. It also has a relatively high incidence in males
in France and Eastern Europe, especially Hungary (see Appendix). Although less
common in Britain, America, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the white
population of South Africa the incidence is rising in some of these countries,
particularly in Britain. The reasons for this difference in incidence are not fully
understood although consumption of alcohol and perhaps different diets play a
part. In those parts of China and Africa that have a high incidence, a fungus that
grows on stored food may be at least partly responsible. Oesophageal cancer is
more common in men than in women especially in the middle and lower thirds of
the oesophagus but in the upper end, it is more common in women. Oesophageal
cancer, like cancers in the mouth and throat, is more common in smokers and
especially in smokers who are heavy drinkers.
Cancer of the lower end of the oesophagus is most often seen in people who
have a history of inflammation or degeneration (metaplasia) or an ulcer in the
lower oesophagus caused by long standing regurgitation of stomach contents.
Such an inflammatory degeneration with metaplasia in the lower oesophagus is

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_13, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

171

172

13

13 Cancers of the Digestive System (Alimentary Tract)

now called a Barret’s oesophagus but if an ulcer develops it is known as a Barret’s
ulcer. The conditions were fi rst described by Dr Barret, an Australian surgeon
working in London. Barret’s ulcer is becoming more common in Western countries, so too is cancer of the lower oesophagus.

13.1.1 Pathology
Most cancers of the upper and middle regions of the oesophagus are of the flat
pavement or squamous-cell type, having developed in the squamous mucosal
lining. At the lower end of the oesophagus, where there may be glandular mucosa
similar to that of the stomach, increasing numbers of cancers are of glandulartype cells. That is, adenocarcinoma is more common and increasingly so in
association with long-standing Barret’s ulcer.

13.1.2
Cancer of the
oesophagus
is usually well
established
before it is
diagnosed.

Symptoms

Unfortunately, cancer of the oesophagus is usually well established before it is
diagnosed. The most common symptom is dysphagia (difficulty with swallowing).
First, there is difficulty in swallowing solid foods that seem to get caught in the
throat or chest. Later, there is difficulty in swallowing liquids. A person with
cancer of the oesophagus thus soon loses weight and may become quite wasted
and even dehydrated.

13.1.3

Signs

The earliest sign of oesophageal cancer is for the doctor to observe the patient
having difficulty with swallowing. A later sign will be evidence of weight loss
and even dehydration.

13.1.4

Investigations

Barium swallow or barium meal X-rays (described in Sects. 7.3.2–7.3.3) will
usually show an obstruction to swallowing in the oesophagus. An irregular,
“apple-core” shaped, narrowing is a common feature at the site of this cancer.
Oesophagoscopy is carried out (described in Sect. 7.4.6) and, through the
oesophagoscope, the doctor can usually see an irregular tumour mass or an ulcerated tumour. A biopsy will establish the diagnosis microscopically.
Cancers of the oesophagus have usually spread up and down and under the
mucous membrane lining of the oesophagus and into lymph nodes and other

13.1 Cancer of the Oesophagus

structures in the chest before the patient notices much in the way of symptoms.
Thus they are very often incurable when fi rst diagnosed.

13.1.5

Treatment

Very early intramucosal adenocarcinoma in Barret’s oesophagus can sometimes be treated effectively by endoscopic resection. However, long-term
cure of well-established or invasive oesophageal cancer is all too infrequent
but the best hope of cure is by operation. The oesophagus is removed and
either the stomach or a section of bowel is used to make a new oesophagus
for passage of food.
Radiotherapy is also used to treat this cancer. Although it often makes a cancer smaller for a period, and relieves symptoms temporarily, it does not often
cure the cancer.
Even when radiotherapy and surgery are used together results have been
disappointing.
Chemotherapy alone has also been disappointing in treating this cancer.
The earliest attempts to improve results by using chemotherapy fi rst to reduce
the cancer and then surgery to remove the remaining cancer did not improve
patient outcomes. However, more recently some encouraging results have been
reported using different drug combinations in integrated treatment programs in
which chemotherapy has been integrated and synchronised with radiotherapy
and possibly followed by surgery. Further studies are needed before a change in
standard practice can be recommended with confidence.
Sometimes attempts at removing an oesophageal cancer are not possible and
the most helpful treatment is for the surgeon to pass a plastic tube through the
oesophagus and past the cancer into the stomach, to allow the patient to swallow
food through the tube. Otherwise, some alternative food passage, possibly by
putting a feeding tube directly into the stomach or another method of feeding,
like intravenous nutrition may be required.
Screening. Because of the increased risk of cancer of lower oesophagus and
upper stomach associated with Barret’s metaplasia or Barret’s ulcer, it is
recommended that people with persistent or uncontrolled reflux or a known
Barret’s oesphagus be regularly screened by oesophagoscopy or endoscopy for
early detection of any malignant change.

173

174

13

13 Cancers of the Digestive System (Alimentary Tract)

CASE REPORT
Lower oesophageal cancer
Michelle is a 63-year-old nurse.
She was 59-years old when she fi rst complained of reflux and “burning” in her lower oesophagus. It had been troubling her for some months
or possibly a year when she fi rst consulted her family doctor. Her doctor
arranged oesophagoscopy that confi rmed gastric reflux and some mucosal
irritation suggestive of Barret’s oesophagus. The doctor advised Michelle
to avoid bending, to lose some weight, to elevate the head-end of her bed
and sleep with extra pillows under her head. He also prescribed an antacid
medication. He asked Michelle to return for consultation in 3 months.
Michelle explained that she was committed to working in an African mission
for 2 years. The doctor then proscribed a “proton pump” medication for
Michelle to take with her in case her symptoms were not distinctly better
in 3 months. He advised Michelle to return to Brussels or another major
centre for reassessment in no longer than 6 months.
Initially Michelle got some relief from the antacid medication but symptoms returned so she took a course of the “proton pump” medication. It too
gave her initial relief but symptoms returned and worsened. She continued
with her work but eventually had trouble swallowing and lost a great deal of
weight. After 13 months she returned to Brussels where her doctor arranged
a further gastroscopy. An ulcer with raised edges was seen in the gastrooesophageal junction. Biopsies showed it to be an adenocarcinoma. Chest
X-rays and CT scans did not show any evidence of tumour spread.
Possible treatments were discussed with Michelle. She was advised that
surgery alone would offer her no more than a 20% chance of cure. Radiotherapy alone would probably give her temporary relief with but an even less
chance of cure. The specialist involved advised that his oncology group was
taking part in a clinical trial using either pre-operative (induction) chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy or preoperative chemotherapy followed by
surgery to determine whether better results could be achieved.
Michelle agreed to take part in the study. After five treatments with
chemotherapy at weekly intervals her cancer had become significantly
smaller. Surgical resection of lower oesophagus and proximal stomach
with draining lymph nodes was then performed and the residual oesophagus was anastomosed to the remaining stomach in the chest.
After initial trouble with eating and some anaemia, Michelle is now
taking smaller nutritious meals more frequently, some treatment for anaemia and is beginning to gain some weight. To date, 6 months post-operatively, she feels relatively well but has reduced energy. So far there is no
evidence of cancer recurrence.

13.2 Cancer of the Stomach

13.2

Cancer of the Stomach

Stomach cancer is uncommon before the age of 40 but thereafter the incidence
increases with age, reaching a peak between the ages of 60 and 65. For some
unknown reason, in most countries males are affected about two or three times
more commonly than females.
In the past, cancer of the lower or middle stomach was one of the more serious
and more common cancers affecting mankind but fortunately, over recent years,
it has become less common.
Stomach cancer has distinct racial, geographic and dietary associations. It is
about seven times more common in Japan and Korea and three or four times more
common in Eastern Europe than in the US (see Appendix).
Epidemiological studies suggest it has a direct close and relationship to diet.
People who have a diet that is high in animal fats, (especially chemically preserved
meats) and low in fresh fruit and vegetables have a greater risk of developing stomach cancer. It may be related to a high intake of chemical food preservatives and
other methods of food preparation, curing, storage and preservation. For example
the high intake of smoked fish in Japan has been incriminated. There is also a
high incidence among people of northern Iceland who eat large amounts of crude
smoked fish as opposed to a lower incidence in the people of southern Iceland who
have a different diet. In Korea, the custom of eating a great deal of red pepper and
possibly other irritating spices in food is thought to be significant.
It has been suggested that a reason for the decreasing incidence of stomach
cancer in modern industrialised societies is the greater availability of fresh fruit
and vegetables due to modern transport and the greater use of refrigeration to
store foods rather than chemical preservatives and additives.
Medical conditions that increase a person’s risk of developing stomach cancer
are pernicious anaemia (six times the normal risk), chronic gastritis, polyps in
the stomach and gastric ulcers that may be due to Helicobacter pylori infection.
Smokers also have an increased risk and the risk is greater in smokers who are
also heavy consumers of alcohol.

13.2.1

Pathology

Having developed in gastric mucosa, most gastric cancers are glandular type
(adenocarcinoma). In the past, gastric cancer was much more common in the
lower stomach but the pattern is now changing. It is now becoming less common
in the lower stomach and increasingly more common in the upper end, especially
about the gastro-oesophageal junction. This change in pattern is at least partly
due to effective treatment of the Helicobacter pylori bacillus that commonly
caused ulceration and other mucosal changes in the lower stomach. Effective
treatment of this infection appears to have reduced the incidence of cancer in
the lower stomach.

175

176

13

13 Cancers of the Digestive System (Alimentary Tract)

13.2.2 Symptoms
Like cancer of the oesophagus, cancer of the stomach is usually quite advanced
before pain or other symptoms cause most patients to seek medical attention. The
earliest symptom is usually vague indigestion that gradually becomes worse and
more persistent. Persistent indigestion occurring for the fi rst time in someone
over the age of 40 must always be considered with suspicion. Sometimes an
early feature is loss of appetite especially for certain foods. Loss of appetite for
meat is common. Other symptoms may be of fullness or even feeling “blown
up” in the stomach after eating small amounts of food, or vomiting after food.
Vomiting may become frequent, regular or blood-stained. If a cancer has blocked
the stomach, vomiting becomes persistent. Pain is sometimes the fi rst symptom
noticed but when pain is persistent the cancer is often quite advanced. Sometimes
a patient has not been aware of any symptoms but has found a lump in the upper
abdomen. Other patients feel weak and tired due to anaemia, or have experienced recent unexplained weight loss that may be the reason they seek medical attention, rather than any particular indigestion or abdominal complaints.
Occasionally the fi rst evidence of trouble is due to the cancer having spread to
other organs or tissues, for example an enlarged liver or jaundice or back pain
from the pancreas or other tissues behind the stomach.

13.2.3

Signs

Clinical examination may detect one or more of the following features: a swelling or lump in the upper abdomen; evidence of enlarged liver or lymph nodes;
evidence of spread into the pelvis or onto an ovary (felt on vaginal or rectal
examination); or evidence of fluid in the abdominal cavity (ascites). Evidence of
anaemia or weight loss should also be checked. A palpable involved lymph node
just above the medial end of the clavicle, and usually on the left side, is called
a Virchow’s node and is often a feature of advanced intra-abdominal cancer,
especially stomach cancer, because these nodes drain lymph from around the
thoracic duct which comes up from the abdomen.

13.2.4

Investigations

Blood tests for anaemia or other abnormalities and examination for blood in the
faeces are standard investigations for possible cancer of stomach or bowel.
Endoscopy (or gastroscopy as described in Sect. 7.4) is a very useful test.
Endoscopy may allow a cancer to be seen (as an ulcer with raised edges, a
cauliflower-like mass or rigid abnormal distortion of the stomach wall) and
a biopsy to be taken. Present-day endoscopy is now so readily practised
and without stress to the patient that it is usually performed before barium meal
X-ray studies.

13.2 Cancer of the Stomach

177

A CT scan may be useful to determine the size and exact position of a cancer.
It may show, for example, that the cancer has spread into the pancreas or liver or
enlarged adjacent lymph nodes.
Barium meal X-rays (Sect. 7.3.2) may show an ulcer (usually with raised,
rounded edges), or they may show a lump on the stomach wall looking something
like a small cauliflower. The X-rays and screening may show a blocked stomach,
a change in its shape or size (bigger, or shrunken and smaller), or a more rigid
and stiff-walled stomach.

13.2.5

Treatment

The only present curative treatment of cancer of the stomach is surgery: to
remove all of the stomach (total gastrectomy), most of the stomach (sub-total
gastrectomy), or part of the stomach (partial gastrectomy). Because of the high
risk of lymph-node involvement, draining lymph nodes are removed with the
gastric resection.
If a cancer has already spread beyond the stomach region surgical cure may
not be possible but it may still be possible to relieve symptoms for example a
gastro-enterostomy to relieve stomach obstruction.
After total gastrectomy the small intestine is anastomosed (joined) to the
oesophagus or, in the case of a sub-total or partial gastrectomy, the small intestine may be anastomosed to the small remaining part of the stomach to allow
food to pass through normally. After surgery the patient can eat only small meals
and therefore needs to eat frequently to avoid too much weight loss. Without a
stomach, the patient will also be given treatment to prevent anaemia. Anaemia
may be a macrocytic anaemia due to loss of gastric intrinsic factor or a microcytic iron-deficiency anaemia due to inadequate iron absorption or, possibly,
blood loss.
In the past results of surgery alone in treating apparently resectable stomach cancers have been disappointing (about 25–30% cures) but in general, the
smaller a cancer is at surgery the better the chance of cure. For this reason,
endoscopy and other diagnostic tests may be used to look for evidence of
cancer as soon as a patient complains of early symptoms. If the patient is a
male over the age of 40 years there is a greater risk that persistent symptoms
of indigestion, lack of appetite and local epigastric pain and discomfort are
due to a cancer. In some countries, and especially Japan, screening tests are
often carried out in people at risk even though they may have no symptoms.
When stomach cancers are found whilst they are small and in the early stages
of the disease (as is now often the case in Japan), surgery results are good with
a high rate of cure (more than 80% cure rates have been reported). However
this is not often the case in Western countries where stomach cancer is less
common and is not often diagnosed until troublesome symptoms have developed, by which time the cancers are more advanced and less likely to be cured
by surgery alone.

The only
present curative
treatment
of cancer of
the stomach
is surgery.

178

13

13 Cancers of the Digestive System (Alimentary Tract)

Presently available anti-cancer drugs do not cure this cancer but they may
be useful in treating people whose cancers cannot be cured by operation. The
drugs will often make the cancers smaller and may give the patients good but
temporary relief.
More recently, anti-cancer drugs have been given to some patients before the
operation is carried out (see Sect. 8.3.4). Some reports have shown that if the
cancers are made smaller by the drugs and then the operation (gastrectomy) is
carried out, the results will be better and the chances of cure improved. The most
effective way of giving the anti-cancer chemotherapy before operation may be by
giving drugs directly into the coeliac axis artery that supplies blood to the stomach. After 5 or 6 weeks of this therapy, the cancer is usually smaller and, with
following surgery, better results have been reported. These studies continue but
as yet there has been no agreement about the most effective plan for integrated
treatment.
More studies of these techniques are needed but there is some hope of better
results with treatment of stomach cancer in the future. Firstly, by earlier diagnostic tests to detect cancers at an earlier and more curable stage and secondly,
by the use of induction or neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by surgery for
those people who present for treatment with established, invasive, but removable
cancers.
Studies in the use of postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy are in progress but
at the time of writing, although some positive results have been reported there is
no agreement on the benefits of adjuvant chemotherapy.
After gastrectomy it is important to carefully follow-up these patients not
only for possible tumour recurrence but for general nutrition and to avoid both
microcytic anaemia (possibly a feature of poor nutrition and iron deficiency)
and macrocytic anaemia (due to loss of gastric intrinsic factor).

EX ERCISE
List predisposing factors that may be associated with cancers of the stomach
and the oesophagus.

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

13.3 Cancer of the Liver

13.3

Cancers of the Liver

Cancers in the liver are either cancers that began in the liver cells (primary) or
cancers that have spread to the liver from another primary site (secondary or
metastatic).

13.3.1 Primary Liver Cancer (Hepatoma or Hepatocellular Carcinoma)
Cancer starting in liver cells (primary cancer) is uncommon in European races
but is common in Africans, South-East Asians, Chinese and Japanese (see Appendix).
It ranges as high as half of all cancers in African Bantu men. The reasons for
this difference in incidence are not completely understood although differences
in diet and food storage and preparation are probably important. Long-standing
liver infection with hepatitis B and hepatitis C and parasitic infestation, particularly by the liver fluke, are responsible for much of the increased incidence in
some Asian countries. Certain fungi that commonly contaminate food in parts
of Africa and Asia may also play a part whereas food stored by refrigeration in
Westernised societies should be free from fungus contamination.
In Western Countries primary liver cancer is more likely in people with longstanding cirrhosis of the liver, whether the cirrhosis is the result of excessive
alcohol consumption, post hepatitis or other causes.
13.3.1.1

Features o f Primary Liver Cancer

The fi rst evidence of primary liver cancer may be deterioration in general health
(loss of appetite, lassitude, malaise, weight loss, weakness and debility) or features
of liver enlargement with pain in the upper abdomen, swelling, jaundice or fluid
in the abdominal cavity (ascites).
13.3.1.2

Investigations

Investigations that may help include CT scans, MRI scans, ultrasound, sometimes
arteriography, but especially liver biopsy (see Sect. 7.3). Also, blood tests for liver
function, anaemia and biochemical changes are often helpful. The tumour marker
alpha-foeto-protein is usually raised in people with this cancer and should fall
to normal levels if the cancer has been successfully treated. Progressive alphafoeto-protein tests may give a useful indication of the effectiveness of treatment.
Other serological tests for hepatitis B surface antigens (HBsAg) or antibodies
for hepatitis C (anti-HCV) may also be positive in liver cancer.

179

180

13

13 Cancers of the Digestive System (Alimentary Tract)

13.3.1.3

Treatment

Treatment of primary liver cancer is successful only if the disease is detected
whilst it is confi ned to a part of the liver that can be surgically resected. Because
the cancer has usually spread widely in the liver when fi rst detected, cure is
usually not possible.
Chemo-embolisation can sometimes reduce tumour size and achieve palliation of symptoms. This treatment, in which anti-cancer agents are combined with
a clotting agent and injected into the hepatic artery feeding the cancer mass, is
commonly used in Japan. Another form of treatment now widely practised in
Japan and other Eastern countries is to infuse chemotherapy into the hepatic
artery together with different materials (often Lipiodol or microspheres) that
slow the rate of the anti-cancer agents in their flow through the liver. The slower
liver circulation increases the uptake of anti-cancer drugs by keeping the liver
and cancer cells exposed to them for longer periods. Several reports of improved
results are now well documented. In some trials immunological agents have also
been incorporated to make the chemo-embolic materials or other liver circulation
slowing agents even more effective.
Another treatment in suitable patients is cryosurgery (Sect. 8.5) or percutaneous alcohol injections to destroy all visible cancer. Some patients have repeated
treatments and some gain long-term relief.
Tamoxifen is sometimes used in patients with poor performance status who
wish some form of active treatment. This may give temporary relief and is unlikely
to cause toxicity.
Meanwhile the most hopeful way of dealing with the high incidence of primary liver cancer is by more intense and widespread hepatitis B immunisation
programs to prevent this cancer-prone liver disease. Although much needed there
is, at the time of writing, no effective hepatitis C vaccine.

13.3 Cancer of the Liver

CASE REPORT
Hepatoma (primary liver cancer)
Henri was a 70-year-old retired winemaker who had become a heavy
consumer of his wine product for many years. He had not felt well for
some months with loss of appetite for food, weight-loss and loss of energy
but unfortunately no loss of appetite for his wine.
He had developed abdominal discomfort and pain, especially pain in
his right shoulder, when he consulted his family doctor.
His doctor found him to be a thin, wasted man with slight jaundice, some
abdominal swelling with some ascites. Some petechial spots were noticed
on the skin of Henri’s abdomen. He felt an enlarged liver, with a distinct
mass protruding downwards from the right liver lobe. When he put his
stethoscope over the mass he could hear a vascular bruit.
Ultrasound, angiography and CT scans confi rmed the appearance of
a vascular liver mass consistent with a primary liver cancer. Blood count
showed the presence of anaemia with a reduction in platelets. There was
no evidence of a stomach, bowel or lung cancer that might have suggested
the liver mass could be a secondary cancer so that a primary liver cancer
was assumed without a biopsy. Biopsy was not performed due to the risk
of haemorrhage.
Henri was given a transfusion of whole blood but was otherwise treated
symptomatically only. He died 1 month later and autopsy confi rmed a
primary liver cancer (hepatoma) in a cirrhotic liver.

Comment
In Henri’s state of health there would have been no question of resecting
this cancer even though it appeared to be confi ned to the right lobe of the
liver and was not involving the vena-cava. There was also no possibility
of improving his outlook by systemic chemotherapy alone. However had
Henri been well enough, consideration might have been given to treating
his liver cancer by chemotherapeutic embolisation. In such treatment a
chemotherapeutic agent together with a “blocking agent” (such as lipiodol
or microspheres), is infused into the hepatic artery. The blocking agent
slows the arterial blood flow in the liver thus allowing a longer period of
exposure of the cancer cells to the chemotherapy. Such treatment is often
worthwhile in younger, fitter patients with liver cancer.

181

182

13 Cancers of the Digestive System (Alimentary Tract)

13.3.2

13
The liver is one
of the most
common sites
of secondary
cancer in
Western races.

Secondary (Metastatic) Liver Cancer

The liver is one of the most common sites of secondary cancer in Western races.
Cancers of the digestive tract, especially the stomach, pancreas, colon and
rectum commonly spread via the bloodstream to the liver. Cancers of almost
any other tissue may also metastasise to liver, especially breast cancer, lung
cancer and melanoma.
Once involved with metastases, the liver enlarges. It may become uncomfortable or even painful. Jaundice often develops and ascitic fluid may accumulate
in the abdominal cavity. A person with secondary liver cancer sooner or later
usually notices a general malaise, loss of appetite, loss of weight and loss of
energy. Breathlessness may also develop.
13.3.2.1

Investigations

The most helpful investigations are usually the CT or MRI scan, ultrasound,
sometimes arteriography and laparoscopy. Liver isotope scans, once a standard
investigation, have largely been replaced by more helpful MRI scans. If needed,
a liver biopsy may be required to confi rm the diagnosis but very often the diagnosis is obvious from the known previous history of a cancer.
Liver biopsy can be carried out under local anaesthesia with a special needle
through the lower chest or abdominal wall. Alternatively it may be carried out at
laparoscopy or open operation.
If the site of a primary cancer that has spread to the liver is not known, investigations may be required to discover where the metastatic cancer in the liver
originated (i.e. the primary cancer site) (Fig. 13.1 and 13.2).

Fig. 13.1. CT of liver showing a metastasis from a colon cancer

13.3 Cancer of the Liver

Fig. 13.2. Photograph of abdomen of a 63-year-old jaundiced woman with a big liver and
ascites. The liver contained many metastatic lumps from a primary breast cancer treated
6 years previously

13.3.2.2 Treatments

Metastatic cancer in the liver is usually incurable. The best hope of cure is
when there are only one to four metastases that are in a part of the liver that
can be removed by surgical operation. However provided all metastases are in
one resectable section, surgical removal may be worthwhile even if more than
four metastases have been identified. This is uncommon. In most people, the
secondary cancers are spread throughout both sides of the liver.
Although there is no cure for most patients, some metastatic cancers are sensitive to anti-cancer drugs, especially those that have come from primary cancer of
the colon or rectum, stomach or breast.
Although the drugs do not totally cure them, metastases may be reduced
sometimes giving the patient good relief for some months.
The simplest method of giving such anti-cancer drugs is either by mouth or
intravenous injection. However, a more effective method is by direct chemotherapy infusion into the hepatic artery either intermittently through a catheter
placed into the hepatic artery or by a continuous infusion using a continuous
infusion pump.
Intermittent intra-arterial infusion chemotherapy can usually be given only
in a hospital and the patient returns for treatment at intervals as necessary.
There is now evidence that a larger dose and more effective treatment (using

183

184

13

13 Cancers of the Digestive System (Alimentary Tract)

5FU) is better tolerated if systemic protection with low dose folinic acid is fi rst
administered.
Some years ago a small pump was developed in America to continuously
pump anti-cancer drugs into the hepatic artery. A surgeon implants this pump
under the skin of the anterior abdominal wall where it stays without discomfort.
It allows patients who are having continuous intra-arterial infusion chemotherapy to go home and lead relatively normal lives, returning for re-fi lling of the
pump once every week or two. Although such pumps are expensive and suitable only for certain patients using certain drugs, most patients with pumps live
comfortably for several months or even 2 years or more. For many of these
patients, their survival time has been increased with good quality of life. Other
studies are aimed at developing less expensive and more easily available methods
of giving similar relief to greater numbers of patients using the principle of intraarterial chemotherapy.
Implantable infusion pumps are expensive but can often be used with good
effect. All methods have shown encouraging results as far as improving the
patient’s quality of life and possibly life expectancy are concerned but, as yet,
with few exceptions, infusion chemotherapy is unlikely to achieve long-term survival or cure. Studies of each technique continue.
Different combinations of anti-cancer drugs given in different treatment
schedules with or without infusion pumps are under study in many world cancer
centres. Although good results can be achieved when the drugs are given into the
hepatic artery, as yet there are a number of difficulties and problems to be solved
before this form of treatment can be recommended for general use other than in
specialised cancer clinics.
Destruction of obvious liver metastatic masses by cryosurgery or by alcohol
injection under laparoscopic control is used in some specialised centres, usually
with good effect. Some patients obtain considerable benefit, and in some the treatment can be repeated with reasonably good long-term control. In some highly
specialised clinics this treatment is sometimes combined with hepatic-artery infusion
chemotherapy with good long-term control in suitable patients. Over 70% longterm survivors have been reported from some clinics. Such studies are continuing
but this sort of treatment does require a dedicated team of specialists.
Some encouraging results are also being reported from implantation of radioactive “seeds” into liver cancers.
Radio-frequency ablation (RFA) is another new approach under study for
treating some cancers in the liver.

13.3 Cancer of the Liver

CASE REPORT
Metastatic liver cancer
Kiri was a 62-year-old Maori woman who attended her doctor for her
regular follow-up having had a bowel cancer resected 3 years previously.
Over the last 6 months, since her last attendance she had had a reduced
appetite and lost some weight. She said that she had little energy.
The surgeon could feel a lump protruding from her liver edge below
the right costal margin. He arranged CT scans and three distinct masses
were seen in the liver, three in the right lobe and a smaller lump in the
left lobe. A needle biopsy confi rmed the presence of metastatic cancer of
large bowel origin.
Resection of these tumours was out of the question so that Kiri was
offered the option of systemic chemotherapy, chemotherapy infusions into
her hepatic artery on a monthly basis or cryosurgical injections into the
liver metastases. Although more complex to administer she was advised
that hepatic arterial chemotherapy would be more likely to achieve a
tumour response than systemic chemotherapy. She chose this treatment as
her preferred fi rst line of therapy. She was treated on a monthly basis with
chemotherapy (5-FU infused over 8 h into the hepatic artery). On each occasion a vascular radiologist inserted a cannula into the hepatic artery via
one of her femoral arteries.
Over the next 7 months the tumour masses were fi rst reduced in size but
they then began to increase in size so that the surgeon proposed treatment
by cryotherapy to which Kiri agreed.
Under a general anaesthetic, with laparoscopic visual control, the surgeon inserted a probe into each tumour mass and injected a measured
amount of liquid nitrogen into each mass.
In subsequent weeks the tumour masses reduced in size but after 5
months further masses had developed in the liver.
The cryosurgery was repeated on one more occasion and although there
was an initial good response for 3 months further masses developed in the
liver. With this Kiri’s general health had deteriorated with development of
jaundice and ascites. Kiri was thereafter treated symptomatically.

Comment
Life expectancy after fi rst diagnosis of colon cancer metastases in the liver
is about seven or 8 months. Kiri and her family were grateful that she
had survived to attend her granddaughter’s wedding 1 year after the liver
metastases were fi rst treated and she survived 19 months in all.

185

186

13

13 Cancers of the Digestive System (Alimentary Tract)

EX ERCISE
List the reasons why in Eastern and developing countries primary cancers in
the liver are more common than metastatic cancers but metastatic cancers
in the liver are much more common in Western and developed countries.

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

13.4

A cancer
may develop
as a result
of years of
irritation with
gall-stones.

Cancer of the Gall Bladder and Bile Ducts

These are uncommon cancers in Western countries although quite common in
some countries such as South India. In Western countries, cancer of the gall
bladder is usually associated with gallstones that have been present for many
years. It is most common in older women. Cancer of the bile ducts, on the other
hand, is rather more common in men.
One reason for advising removal of gall bladders with gallstones, especially
in young women, is that there is a risk that over the years a cancer may develop
as a result of years of irritation with gallstones.
Early cancer may occasionally be found unexpectedly and incidentally on
examination of the gall bladder after it has been removed for other reasons. In
such cases, cure of the cancer may have been achieved simply by the operation
of cholecystectomy.

13.4.1

Symptoms

If not diagnosed early, cancer of the gall bladder may cause persistent pain in
the upper right side of the abdomen, with inflammation of the gall bladder. It
may cause a swelling or lump felt in the upper abdomen under the ribs on the
right side.

13.4.2

Signs

Cancer of the gall bladder and more especially cancer of the bile ducts may
present with jaundice due to obstruction of the flow of bile from the liver. The
jaundice is often accompanied by a severe itch of the patient’s skin.

13.5 Cancer of the Pancreas

13.4.3

Pathology and Treatment

Cancer of the gall bladder tends to invade the liver as well as nearby lymph
nodes. Once this has happened it is virtually incurable by surgery and does not
respond well to radiotherapy. It also does not respond well to chemotherapy
although good response to more concentrated intra-arterial chemotherapy (see
Sect. 8.3.4.6) and cure with subsequent surgery has been reported. In advanced
cases jaundice and itch if present, can usually be relieved by a surgical operation in which the obstruction to bile flow is bypassed allowing the bile to flow
into the bowel by another route. Alternatively a rigid stent is sometimes inserted
surgically through the obstruction in the bile duct to allow passage of bile and
so relieve the jaundice.

13.5

Cancer of the Pancreas

Cancer of the pancreas has become increasingly common in Western Countries
over recent years. It is now the fourth leading cause of cancer death in middleaged males in the US. It is more common in males than females (see Appendix),
but the reason for this is unknown. It is becoming increasingly common in smokers and is also more common in heavy drinkers of alcohol. Diabetics and people
with a history of chronic pancreatitis also have an increased risk of pancreatic
cancer. Questionable associations of pancreatic cancer with consumption of
coffee have been reported but not confi rmed however tea drinking may even be
protective (possibly due to anti-oxidants in tea).

13.5.1 Presentation
Cancer of the pancreas often involves the common bile duct causing bile duct
obstruction and often fi rst presents as obstructive jaundice As the obstruction
continues, the jaundice becomes a deeper yellow. The jaundice may be painless although there is often pain felt deep in the upper abdomen and passing
through to the back. The jaundice may cause the patient’s skin to become
very itchy ( pruritus). As obstructive jaundice develops, the gall bladder and
the liver may become enlarged and palpable. Sometimes a pancreatic tumour
mass can be felt.
Most patients with cancer of the pancreas have vague malaise, anorexia and
weight loss, in fact these may be the fi rst features of the disease. Diarrhoea may
also be a feature. Sometimes patients fi rst present with a painless jaundice with
no otherwise obvious cause.

187

188

13

13 Cancers of the Digestive System (Alimentary Tract)

13.5.2

Investigations

Because the pancreas lies across the back of the upper abdomen, behind the
stomach and other organs, it has been one of the more difficult organs to feel or
to investigate. With the improved methods of investigation now available, abnormalities including cancer are now more often diagnosed in earlier stages.
Ultrasound and CT scans have been of some help in detecting earlier cancers
although early detection of the smallest cancers at a potentially curable stage is
still difficult.
A tumour marker, CA19-9, is often elevated in patients with pancreas cancer.
A low level might suggest a resectable cancer but a level of more than 2,000
usually indicates a non-resectable cancer.
Endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreatoscopy (ERCP discussed in Sect.
7.4.10), has allowed pancreatic secretions to be examined for cancer cells and
X-rays to be taken of the duct. These may be helpful in detecting evidence of
some pancreatic cancers at an early stage.
An isotope material suitable and specific for scanning the pancreas has not
been found but work continues in the search for such a substance. When PET
scans become more readily available (see Sect. 7.3.12) this is one area where it
is hoped they will help significantly in early detection as well as diagnosis and
monitoring response to treatments.
Needle biopsy of any lump in the pancreas is the most useful method of establishing a diagnosis but this procedure is not always reliable and does have risks. It
depends very much on getting the needle into exactly the right part of the pancreas.
A significant risk is that the needle tract might cause pancreatic juices to leak into the
peritoneal cavity and possibly establish a fistula that will cause further problems.

13.5.3

Treatment

When first detected, cancer of the pancreas has usually spread to lymph nodes and
the liver and cure by surgery is usually not possible. However, some small early
cancers can be resected by a major surgical operation with fair prospects of cure.
The operation is known as a Whipple’s operation.
To date, treatment by radiotherapy or chemotherapy has been disappointing
although more effective anti-cancer drugs and combination therapies are constantly being investigated. Downgrading some cancers by radio/chemotherapy
prior to surgical resection has been successful in some studies with some longterm cures reported but further studies are needed before such treatment can be
more widely accepted.
Present studies include more effective use of intra-arterial chemotherapy
as the fi rst measure of an integrated treatment program with radiotherapy and
surgery but a number of difficulties need to be solved and further studies are
needed before this can be recommended as safe or effective treatment.

13.5 Cancer of the Pancreas

For most pancreatic cancers, some hope of temporary palliation of symptoms
is usually the best that can be achieved.
Relief of jaundice due to pancreatic cancer obstructing the bile duct can
usually be achieved by surgery to bi-pass the obstruction. Alternatively, a rigid
stent passed through the lumen of the bile duct at the site of obstruction might
give temporary relief of bile-duct obstruction.

CASE REPORT
Advanced cancer of pancreas
Boris was a 54-year-old Russian factory worker. He had been a smoker
for more than 30 years.
His wife had noticed a change in colour of his skin for 3 or 4 weeks and
that he had not been eating well and seemed to be losing weight, when she
convinced him to consult a doctor. By the time he saw his doctor an obvious jaundice was present. He confessed to his doctor that he had had some
upper abdominal and back pain and discomfort for 5 or 6 weeks.
On examination the doctor felt the liver was enlarged below the right
costal margin. No abdominal mass could be felt but a CT showed a mass, in
the region of the head of his pancreas. He explained that this was likely to
be a cancer and that a laparoscopy was recommended to confi rm this.
At laparoscopy a cancer in the head of the pancreas was confi rmed and
the presence of a dilated gallbladder was noted.
A laparotomy was recommended. It was explained to Boris that the
fi xed cancer mass was unlikely to be resectable but his jaundice could be
relieved by anastomosing his gall bladder to his small bowel, so bypassing
the obstructing mass in the head of his pancreas.
Boris agreed to surgery and the presence of a cancer fi xed to the posterior abdominal wall with several fi rm enlarged adjacent lymph nodes was
confi rmed. The gallbladder and common bile duct were dilated.
The cancer was clearly not resectable so the surgeon anastomosed the
dilated gall bladder to small bowel to bypass the obstruction.
Over the next 2 or 3 weeks the jaundice resolved. Boris was then commenced on a course of chemotherapy (5-FU) given by intravenous infusion.
After 6 weeks when CT examination showed the mass to be a little
larger and his white cell and platelet count had fallen to dangerous levels
the chemotherapy was stopped.
Thereafter all but palliative treatment was withdrawn. Boris required
increasing doses of morphine and eventually a morphine drip to get pain relief.
Boris failed to eat, lost weight and his condition deteriorated until she
died 10 weeks after his operation.

189

190

13

13 Cancers of the Digestive System (Alimentary Tract)

EX ERCISE
Using as examples case reports in this chapter and other chapters of this
book, construct a case report of a typical patient presenting with and being
investigated and managed for an operable cancer of pancreas.

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

13.6

Cancers of the Small Intestine

Metastatic cancers, especially melanoma, sometimes involve the small intestine and the small intestine is sometimes involved from cancers of other nearby
organs, especially colon and ovary, but primary cancer of the small intestine
is rare.
The most common of the rare primary malignant tumours of small intestine
are adenocarcinoma (a glandular cancer), a lymphoma (as described in Chap.
19) and a tumour called a carcinoid (cancer-like) tumour. These are rare causes
of abdominal pain, bowel bleeding or small bowel obstruction. They are usually
treated by a surgical resection.

13.6.1 Carcinoid Tumour
Carcinoid tumours may occur anywhere in the alimentary tract between the
mouth and anus. The most common site is in the appendix. Most carcinoids in
the appendix, and in fact most small carcinoids, are benign. Sometimes when
an appendix has been taken out for appendicitis, a small carcinoid tumour may
be found in it. In most such cases the tumour has been cured by removal of the
appendix. Further treatment is usually not necessary.
When a carcinoid tumour is found in the small intestine, rather than the
appendix, it is more likely to be larger (2 cm diameter or more) and more likely
to be malignant.
Treatment is by resection of the section of bowel and draining mesenteric
lymph nodes but it may have already metastasised to the liver. Carcinoid metastases in the liver may release certain biochemical substances that can cause wheezing,
bouts of diarrhoea, flushing of the skin of the face. Treatment can be given to
control these episodes but once this tumour has spread into the liver, complete
cure is unlikely.

13.7 Cancer of the Large Bowel (Colon and Rectum)

191

13.7 Cancer of the Large Bowel (Colon and Rectum)
In most Western societies the large bowel is the third or fourth most common
site of primary cancer although in the Australian and New Zealand populations, in both sexes combined, large bowel cancer is the most common after
skin cancer. In the adult population of the US lung cancer is by far the most
common cause of cancer death followed by colorectal cancer then breast cancer
and prostate cancer.
Bowel cancer is a glandular cancer (adenocarcinoma). Although occasionally
seen in young adults (and even in children) it is not commonly seen until after
the age of 40. Thereafter the incidence rises with age, reaching a peak between
60 and 75 years.
Cancer of the large bowel is most common in Western societies where the food
intake is relatively high in meat and animal fats, relatively high in refined foods and
relatively low in fibre such as in wholemeal grains, nuts, legumes, fruit and vegetables (as discussed in Chaps. 2 and 3). It is a relatively uncommon cancer in Asian
countries except Japan and Singapore where “Western” diets are now widespread.
Colo-rectal cancer is uncommon in developing countries and in vegetarians.
Polyps in the large bowel often predispose to cancer and should be removed to
avoid the risk of malignant change. People who have had polyps removed should
be kept under regular observation in case further polyps develop.
The most useful screening tests for bowel polyps and bowel cancer are chemical tests for occult blood in the faeces and regular colonoscopy, particularly for
people in higher risk groups. The higher risk groups include anyone who has
previously had a bowel cancer, anyone with a strong family history of bowel cancer
and in fact anyone over 55 who has been living on a traditional Western diet.
Colorectal cancers in total are more common in males (especially rectal cancers) but cancers in the right side of colon are rather more common in females.
Smoking, obesity and a sedentary occupation are risk factors.
A highly pre-malignant condition is the uncommon hereditary condition
familial polyposis coli, in which about half of the members of an affected family
are likely to develop multiple polyps. Those who have these polyps should have
all large bowel surgically removed otherwise they will develop bowel cancer
usually before the age of 40. All close blood relatives in an affected family should
be kept under regular observation. If polyps are found, these people too should
have a total colectomy.
A villous papilloma, less common than polyps, sometimes occurs in the
rectum. It has considerable propensity to become malignant in its base and
should be surgically removed when detected (Figs. 13.3 and 13.4).
Other conditions with an increased risk of large bowel cancer are the inflammatory bowel disease ulcerative colitis and to a lesser extent granulomatous
(Crohn’s) colitis. The longer ulcerative colitis has been present and the greater
the severity of the disease and length of bowel affected, the greater is the risk
of cancer developing. About 10% of people with continuing ulcerative colitis

Polyps in
the large
bowel often
predispose
to cancer and
should be
removed to
avoid the risk
of malignant
change.

192

13 Cancers of the Digestive System (Alimentary Tract)

13

Fig. 13.3. Diagram of bowel polyps

Fig. 13.4. Diagrams of a benign bowel papilloma and a previously benign papilloma
developing into a large malignant villous papilloma

EX ERCISE
What are the differences between bowel polyps and bowel papillomata?

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

13.7 Cancer of the Large Bowel (Colon and Rectum)

193

will develop colon cancer after about 10 years. People with long-standing and
extensive ulcerative colitis must be kept under close and regular observation and
in some circumstances may be well advised to have the colon removed as a
precautionary measure.
Apart from familial polyposis coli, close relatives of a patient with any large
bowel cancer have a slightly increased risk of developing a similar cancer.
Whether this is mainly a genetic factor or due to similar diet and other habits is
uncertain. Although the majority of patients successfully treated for bowel cancer do not develop a second tumour they do have an increased risk so that regular
“follow-up” checks are important.

13.7.1

Clinical Features

The most common symptoms of large bowel cancer are a change in bowel habits
(constipation or diarrhoea or sometimes alternating constipation and diarrhoea),
bleeding from the bowel, and a feeling of incomplete evacuation after going to
the toilet. In some cases patients are not aware of any symptoms until the cancer has caused partial or complete bowel obstruction. The fi rst symptoms may
thus be of bowel obstruction with intermittent griping abdominal pain (colic),
constipation and abdominal distension.
Other features of large bowel cancer may be of general debility, weight loss,
tiredness and lassitude (sometimes due to anaemia) or features of liver enlargement or jaundice due to liver metastases.
It may be possible to feel an abdominal lump or localised swelling or on anal
examination with a gloved fi nger, a mass in the anus or lower rectum can sometimes be felt. There may be evidence of blood in the faeces. In obstructive bowel
cancer, colic with abdominal distension or swelling is likely.

13.7.2

Investigations

Investigations include sigmoidoscopic or colonoscopic examinations (described
in Sect. 7.4.2). About half of large bowel cancers are in the rectum or lower
sigmoid colon. These can be seen and biopsied through a sigmoidoscope.
Barium (or Baryum) enema screening and X-rays may reveal a cancer, especially if an air-contrast barium study is used (see Sect. 7.3.2).
If there is no evidence of bowel obstruction and especially if a cancer is
suspected in the fi rst part of the large bowel (the caecum or ascending colon),
barium meal studies and X-rays may help outline a tumour mass but colonoscopy
with biopsy is still the most helpful method of diagnosis.
Sigmoidoscopic examination, barium enema and barium meal studies can
all be done on an outpatient basis without anaesthesia but colonoscopy requires
good sedation or in some cases a general anaesthetic. Colonoscopy will allow the

Colonoscopy
will allow the
whole length of
the large bowel
to be examined
visually and
for biopsies
to be taken

194

13

13 Cancers of the Digestive System (Alimentary Tract)

whole length of the large bowel to be examined visually and for biopsies to be
taken from any part of the length of the colon.
A day in hospital is sometimes required for this examination although increasing numbers are now performed on a short stay basis of half a day or so. In some
modern clinics the procedure can be carried out with the patient being mildly
sedated and even able to watch the procedure on a TV monitor.
Blood studies are used to detect anaemia or changes in biochemistry of the
blood or impaired liver function. Carcino-embryonic antigen (Sect. 7.5.5) is a
tumour marker that is usually strongly positive in people with large bowel cancer
and becomes negative after successful treatment. If it becomes positive again at a
later stage after treatment this suggests a recurrence of the cancer.
CT scans are used in detecting evidence of liver metastases.

13.7.3
In good hands an
early operation
will cure about
half the patients
with large
bowel cancer.

Treatment

The only way of curing a large bowel cancer is by a surgical operation in which
the part of the bowel containing the cancer is excised together with its draining
lymph nodes, into which the cancer may have spread. In most cases, cut ends
of bowel are joined (anastomosed), so the patient can return to normal life. The
place of chemotherapy or radiation therapy as adjuvant treatment before or after
surgical resection is still under study. Some studies have suggested that there may
be a place for pre-operative radiation for some advanced rectal cancers but the
use of radiotherapy is somewhat controversial. Several studies have shown some
improvement in long-term results using adjuvant chemotherapy after surgical
resection of more advanced colo-rectal cancers with or without radiotherapy.
Adjuvant chemotherapy (often with 5-FU and leucovorin) is now standard practice in many modern clinics when the cancer has involved local lymph nodes.
Recent studies using an angiotoxic substance “Avastin” are showing encouraging
results in enhancing the cytotoxic properties of chemotherapy for bowel cancer.
When the cancer is in the lower rectum it may be necessary to remove the anus
as well as the rectum and a colostomy bowel opening is made in the abdominal
wall for passage of faeces. The patient learns to wear a bag over the colostomy
and the bowel empties at regular intervals into the bag. The patient learns to
empty the bag at convenient times and gradually learns to live an active and
virtually normal life.
A colostomy club has been established with branches in many large cities.
Membership is open to all people who have a colostomy. This club is a meeting
ground for people with similar problems and has been a great help in assisting
many patients to adjust to the new circumstances of living with a colostomy.
Mutual support and advice help people to learn to live with a colostomy and to
cope with necessary social adjustments.

13.8 Cancer of the Anus

In good hands an early operation will cure about half the patients with large
bowel cancer. With adjuvant chemotherapy in appropriate patients, even better
results are reported. With or without a colostomy, most people then return to
normal life. The cure rate depends on the degree of penetration of the cancer into
the bowel wall and the involvement of nearby or more distant lymph nodes.
If a cancer fi rst presents with bowel obstruction it may be necessary to make
a temporary colostomy to relieve the obstruction. Usually the cancer is resected
3 or 4 weeks later and the colostomy is subsequently closed, resulting in a return
to normal passage of bowel actions.

13.7.4 Follow-Up Care
As for all patients who have had a cancer treated, regular “follow up” consultations and care are required for patients who have had a bowel cancer resected.
There is always a risk of metastatic cancer showing up in the liver or elsewhere
and there may be a risk of another bowel cancer developing that can be effectively
treated if detected while still small. In the case of bowel cancer any metastatic
cancer usually shows up within 2 years. It is uncommon for recurrence to fi rst
show up after 5 years.
Treatment for patients with metastatic cancer in the liver using surgical resection, intra-arterial chemotherapy, cryotherapy or alcohol injections has already
been discussed in this chapter (liver cancer).

13.8

Cancer of the Anus

13.8.1

Presentation and Pathology

Cancer of the anus is not common but may present as a lump, an ulcer, bleeding,
or pain in the anal region. Sometimes it may develop in a pre-existing lesion
such as a papilloma (possibly caused by the human papilloma virus (HPV)), a
patch of leukoplakia (white patch) or in a long-standing anal fissure (a crack in
the wall of the opening of the anus).
Most cancers of the anus are similar in type to squamous cell cancer of skin
but behave more aggressively. A minority of anal cancers are adenocarcinomas
of the glandular mucosa of the upper anal canal.
Most anal cancers tend to spread to lymph nodes in the groins or in the pelvis
at an early stage and often require radical treatment to achieve the best chance
of cure.

195

196

13

13 Cancers of the Digestive System (Alimentary Tract)

CASE REPORT
Colon cancer
Bruce was a 59-year-old former smoker and a little overweight. He had had
coronary bypass surgery 4 months previously when he mentioned to his
cardiologist that he had noticed a little fresh blood in his bowel motions
on three or four occasions recently. He had no other bowel symptoms and
had made a good recovery from his cardiac surgery.
The cardiologist could not detect any mass or other abnormality on either
abdominal or anal examination. She referred Bruce to a gastroenterologist
who did not detect any significant abnormality but arranged a colonoscopy
examination. Blood and liver biochemistry tests were normal.
At colonoscopy the doctor found a polypoid lesion with a 2 cm diameter ulcer with raised edges in the sigmoid colon. Biopsy showed it to be
an adenocarcinoma.
CT scans of abdomen, liver and chest did not show any evidence of
cancer spread.
Bruce was advised to have a surgical resection of left colon including
descending colon, sigmoid colon and upper rectum. The draining lymph
nodes were also resected with the specimen.
No tumour involvement of lymph nodes was detected.
Bruce enquired as to whether he needed to have adjuvant chemotherapy but it was explained to Bruce that there appeared to be no need for him
to be given adjuvant chemotherapy because no lymph nodes were found
to have cancer involvement, the liver was not involved and the cancer had
not penetrated the bowel wall.
Regular follow-up examinations were carried out, including annual
colonoscopies for 5 years but no residual tumour and nor any polyps were
detected.
After being relatively well for 8 years further cardiac problems resulted
in Bruce’s death 11 years after colon surgery. His bowel function had been
normal with no evidence of any residual bowel or cancer problem.

13.8 Cancer of the Anus

Fig. 13.5. An advanced cancer of the anus of a 67-year-old man

An increased risk of anal cancer has been correlated in people who practice anal sex. This increase may be associated with the HPV or HIV infection
(Fig. 13.5).

13.8.2

Treatment

First a biopsy is taken to confi rm the presence and type of cancer.
Treatment may then be by local surgery or radiotherapy for small early
cancers with the objective of preserving the anal sphincter. Radical surgery,
including excision of the rectum and anus was standard practice for rather more
advanced cancers until reports of good results from combined use of integrated
chemotherapy and radiotherapy, and this has now become standard practice in
most modern centres. Radical surgery may still be required for cancers that have
not responded to chemo/radiotherapy. Radical excision of draining lymph nodes
from the groin will be required if these nodes appear to be involved.

197

14

Head and Neck Cancers

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Cancers of the lips
› Cancers of the mouth, anterior tongue and buccal mucosa
› Cancers of the posterior tongue, tonsillar region and pharynx
› Cancers of the post-nasal space
› Cancer of the larynx
› Salivary gland cancers
› Cancers of the thyroid gland

Cancers of the lips, mouth, tongue, nasal cavity, the paranasal air sinuses, throat,
larynx and pharynx constitute about 5% of all cancers recorded in the US and
the incidence is similar in most developed and developing countries. Most of
these cancers are of squamous cells lining the mucosal epithelium. They are
similar in type to squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the skin. However they
tend to behave in a more malignant and more aggressive fashion than SCCs of
skin. As a rule the further the cancers are away from the lips, the more aggressively they behave. Cancers of the lips are more aggressive than skin cancers.
That is, they tend to grow more rapidly locally and have a greater tendency to
spread to draining lymph nodes at an earlier stage. Cancers of the floor of the
mouth, the anterior two-thirds of the tongue, and palate are more aggressive
than cancers of the lips. Cancers of the back of the tongue, in the region of the
tonsils and pharynx and upper air passages are the most aggressive. Cancers of
the vocal cords of the larynx are an exception to this rule. Possibly because the
vocal cords are poorly vascularized, these cancers tend to remain localised to
the vocal cords with no evidence of spread when they first cause symptoms. The
majority are readily curable at that stage.
These cancers are all much more common in smokers than non-smokers and
are most common in males over 50. It has been estimated that cancers in the
mouth and throat are about six times more common in smokers than in non-

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_14, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

The further the
cancers are away
from the lips, the
more aggressively
they behave.

199

200

14

14 Head and Neck Cancers

smokers and this is increased to about 15 times if the smokers are also heavy
drinkers of alcohol. Other pre-malignant conditions that predispose to cancer in
the mouth include leukoplakia, papillomata, and chronic irritation from such
causes as ill-fitting dentures or jagged teeth (see Chap. 1).

14.1

Cancers of the Lips

Cancers of the lips being more obvious than cancers further back in the mouth
or throat are usually diagnosed at an earlier and more curable stage. They may
develop as a thickening in an area of hyperkeratosis (sun damage) – most commonly on the lower lip. They tend to ulcerate and possibly bleed or may form a
lump. They may then metastasise to lymph nodes under the jaw and in the sides
of the neck that may be felt as enlarged and usually firm or hard lymph nodes.
A biopsy is taken to confi rm the diagnosis and thereafter treatment is usually
by surgical excision. Good results, both cosmetically and clinically are usually
achieved. Radiotherapy can also be used with good results.
For larger cancers of the lips, either radical surgery, (removing a large part of
the lip with some form of plastic or reconstructive surgery to fashion a new lip),
or radiotherapy may be used, and the chances of cure are still good.
If hard, enlarged lymph nodes are present either when the patient is fi rst seen
or at a later follow-up visit to the doctor, these are best treated by surgical block
dissection to remove all local lymph nodes.
Occasionally, a patient fi rst consults a doctor when the cancer is very large.
Possibly the whole of the lip is involved with cancer. In these patients, considerable success can be achieved with induction (neoadjuvant) chemotherapy to fi rst
reduce the cancer then following this treatment with radiotherapy or surgery
or both. If special facilities for intra-arterial chemotherapy are available, the
chemotherapy may be best given regionally by infusion into the arteries that
supply blood to the cancer region but such treatment should be done only in specialist
clinics with special experience, equipment and skills. It is not necessary to use
this more complicated combined treatment for smaller cancers that can be readily
cured by operation or by radiotherapy (Figs. 14.1–14.2).

14.2 Cancers of the Floor of the Mouth (Under the Tongue), Anterior
Two-Thirds of the Tongue, and Buccal Mucosa (Inside the Cheek)
These cancers are more aggressive than lip cancers. Lymph nodes are involved
in about 30% of cases.
These cancers are usually fi rst noticed as an ulcer or a lump either by the
patient or sometimes by their dentist before symptoms develop. Other common
features are bleeding or localised soreness. These cancers tend to be on the

14.2 Cancers of the Floor of the Mouth (Under the Tongue), Anterior Two-Thirds of the Tongue, and Buccal Mucosa

Fig. 14.1. A squamous cell carcinoma developing in sun induced hyperkeratosis of the
lower lip

Fig. 14.2. A localised SCC of lower lip

surface at fi rst but soon invade locally with fi rm induration surrounding the lump
or ulcer. They usually become quite tender. Diagnosis is confi rmed by taking a
small biopsy for microscopic examination.
Cancers in the buccal mucosa of the cheek pouch are most common in India,
Pakistan, New Guinea and The Solomon Islands due to the common practice
of chewing betel nut. After initial chewing, the nut is often stored in the cheek
pouch where its carcinogenic properties take effect.
Most cancers are well treated by surgical excision or radiotherapy. Involved
lymph nodes are best treated by block dissection of all lymph nodes in the region.
Sometimes reconstructive surgery may be required to replace resected tissue.

201

202

14

14 Head and Neck Cancers

a

b

c

e

d

Fig. 14.3 (a, b). Anteroposterior and lateral photographs of a man who first presented with
this very advanced SCC of his lower lip. The swelling under the jaw was a mass of metastatic cancer in lymph nodes. (c) Photograph of the same lip after treatment with chemotherapy (given over 5 weeks by continuous intra-arterial infusion). Three weeks after
completion of chemotherapy “follow-up” treatment with radiotherapy was started. Right
sided cervical nodes and submental nodes were resected 4 weeks after completion of radiotherapy. They included a small residual node mass containing some cancer cells. (d) The
end result. This photograph was taken 2 years after completion of treatment. (e) Lateral
view of the end result. This man was well and without evidence of cancer when last seen
12 years after treatment

14.2 Cancers of the Floor of the Mouth (Under the Tongue), Anterior Two-Thirds of the Tongue, and Buccal Mucosa

For larger cancers in the floor of the mouth, anterior two-thirds of tongue,
or the cheek, treatment by prior induction chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy or surgery, may give the best results. In some specialised clinics such
induction chemotherapy is given by intra-arterial infusion more directly to the
tumour site.
By these combined treatment methods, cures can now be achieved in patients
with advanced cancers, which, until recently, were considered incurable or possibly only curable by the most radical surgery. Such treatments do require special
skills, equipment and experience and should be carried out only in experienced
cancer centres (Chap. 8) (Fig. 14.4 –14.6).

a

b

Fig. 14.4. Photographs showing (a) leukoplakia in the buccal mucosa of a 54-year-old
heavy smoker and heavy alcohol drinker; (b) the same mucosa 2 years later. It had
developed into a papillary squamous carcinoma

203

204

14 Head and Neck Cancers

14

Fig. 14.5. An ulcerating SCC of the side of the tongue

a

b

Fig. 14.6. (a, b) SCC of the floor of the mouth. Most of these cancers are associated
with smoking

14.2 Cancers of the Floor of the Mouth (Under the Tongue), Anterior Two-Thirds of the Tongue, and Buccal Mucosa

CASE REPORT
Squamous cancer of the tongue

Tony was a 70-year-old Italian migrant enjoying his retirement in Sydney,
Australia. He had generally good health despite a smoking history of 40
years duration. He had rolled his own cigarettes (ten daily for 40 years)
but had stopped smoking 5 years before his fi rst consultation. After
stopping smoking he continued to enjoy beer and wine, having up to five
alcoholic drinks daily.
Two months prior to presentation, Tony had noticed a small lump on the
side of his tongue. This was initially painless, so he ignored it thinking he
must have bitten his tongue in his sleep. However the lump progressively
enlarged. After a few weeks, he felt pain in his tongue, jaw and left ear.
Eventually the lump came to interfere with his speech and swallowing.
He reported the problem to his family doctor
His doctor recognised a large cauliflower-like tumour on the left side of his
tongue. He was promptly referred to a Head and Neck Surgeon. Tony was
then advised that he had developed a cancer of the side of his tongue
A small biopsy was performed in the surgeon’s office under local anaesthesia. Within 24 h it confi rmed an invasive SCC.
Neither his family doctor nor the surgeon could feel any involvement of
lymph nodes in the neck. For confi rmation, Tony underwent a CT scan.
There was no evidence of nodal metastasis. A chest X-ray showed some
emphysema, but no sign of spread to the lungs.
The tongue cancer was defi ned as Stage II (T2N0M0). However, because
of the tumour’s size and depth of invasion, there was still a 25% chance
of spread to the neck. He was advised to have surgical excision of both
the primary tumour and the lymph nodes at risk in the left neck.
Tony underwent excision of the left side of his anterior tongue. His tongue
was repaired primarily. A total of 45 cervical lymph nodes were removed.
Of these, one proved to contain metastatic cancer. As a result, he also
required post-operative radiation therapy to the mouth and neck.
The treatment for his tongue cancer took almost 3 months. Swallowing
was particularly difficult during the radiation therapy He lost a total of
18 kg in weight. His speech remained surprisingly good. After 1 year, he
continues to gradually recover from his ordeal. His mouth is very dry due
to irradiation involving his salivary glands but some taste has returned and
he has managed to regain some weight. He will remain under surveillance
for head and neck cancer for several years to come.

205

206

14

14 Head and Neck Cancers

14.3

Cancer in the Posterior Third of Tongue, Tonsillar Region and Pharynx

These cancers may present as an ulcer, a lump in the throat or tongue or sometimes a constant sore throat that has not responded to conservative treatment
including antibiotics. Sometimes patients will first notice a lump in the side of the
neck that is, in fact, an enlarged, hard lymph node containing metastatic cancer.
Diagnosis may appear to be obvious but must be confi rmed by biopsy.
Except for small cancers in this region, most cannot be cured by surgery other
than extensive radical surgery and tissue reconstruction and even then long term
results have all too often been disappointing. Radiotherapy too is likely to cure
only small cancers although it may offer good temporary palliation to people
with large cancers.
Unfortunately, most people with these cancers do not attend a doctor or clinic
until the cancer is advanced and the chances of cure by surgery or radiotherapy
are not good. Most of these patients are heavy smokers and many are alcoholics

EX ERCISE
What are the most significant causes or predisposing features of cancers in
the lips, mouth and throat?

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

EX ERCISE
Using as examples case reports in this and other chapters of this book,
construct a case report of a typical patient presenting with and being
investigated and managed for a cancer of the floor of mouth.

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

14.4 Cancers of the Post-Nasal Space (The Air Passage at the Back of the Nose)

Fig. 14.7. A SCC of palate and oropharynx

and often do not notice symptoms until the tumours are advanced. In any case,
these cancers are aggressive and tend to grow and invade locally and metastasise
into lymph nodes in one or both sides of the neck at a relatively early stage. There
is a greater than 50% risk of lymph-node involvement.
Although radical surgery will cure some of these patients and radiotherapy
may cure some and offer palliation to the majority, combined treatment using
chemotherapy (preferably given by regional intra-arterial infusion) followed
by radiotherapy with or without surgery, may offer the best prospect of success
(Fig. 14.7).

14.4

Cancers of the Post-Nasal Space
(The Air Passage at the Back of the Nose)

These cancers are most common in adult Chinese people, especially those from the
Quantong province of China, Hong-Kong and Singapore (see Appendix). Sons and
daughters of people from Quantong and Hong-Kong regions also have an increased
incidence of this cancer even though they may have never lived in China.
Blood tests show that this cancer is most common in people who have been
infected with the Epstein-Barr virus. Their blood usually has a high level of
Epstein-Barr virus antibodies. If the Epstein-Barr virus titre is high before treatment and returns to normal after treatment, it does indicate that treatment has
been effective and the patient has probably been cured.

207

208

14 Head and Neck Cancers

14.4.1

14
People with
post-nasal
space cancer
may present
with symptoms
of a blocked
nose.

Presentation

People with post-nasal space cancer may present with persistent symptoms of a
blocked nose, nasal or post-nasal discharge of mucus, pus or bloodstained material or, alternatively, they sometimes fi rst notice a lump in the side of the neck.
The lump is due to metastatic cancer in a lymph node. Sometimes lymph nodes
on both sides of the neck are involved.
The cancer may sometimes be seen with a mirror in the back of the throat, but
diagnosis is made by taking a biopsy from the back of the nose or sometimes by
biopsy of an enlarged lymph node in the neck.
Occasionally the cancer invades bones at the base of the skull or the cranial
nerves that pass from the brain through the base of the skull and into the neck.
Special X-rays (tomograms) or CT scans may be taken to look for evidence of
bone involvement.

14.4.2

Treatment

Cancer in the back of the nose is not accessible to surgery. It is usually treated
by radiotherapy. With small cancers and no lymph node involvement 80% are
cured by radiotherapy. For larger cancers with involved lymph nodes in the
neck, the prospects of cure by radiotherapy alone are not good. The possibility
of improving results by fi rst giving induction (neo-adjuvant) chemotherapy
(usually three courses) by intravenous injections prior to radiotherapy has now
been proven. Such combined integrated chemotherapy and radiotherapy is now
achieving better results in the treatment of advanced cancers even when lymph
nodes are involved (see Sect. 8.3.4.8–8.3.4.9, Treating Cancers).
If bone at the base of the skull is invaded by cancer, the chance of cure by any
means is poor.

14.5
Laryngeal
cancer is also
a cancer most
common in
smokers and
especially in
smokers who
are also heavy
drinkers.

Cancer of the Larynx

This, too, is a cancer most common in smokers and especially in smokers who
are also heavy drinkers. It is more common in men than women. The most common site for cancer in the larynx is on a vocal cord. Cancers of the vocal cord
usually cause a hoarseness or change in the voice when they are quite small and
are therefore usually diagnosed early. They can be seen and biopsied through a
laryngoscope and if treated early either by radiotherapy or by surgery (in which
the cord is removed), the results of treatment are good. Approximately 90% are
cured either by radiotherapy or by surgery.
If neglected until the cancer has spread from the vocal cord into surrounding
tissues, the chances of cure by simple surgery or radiotherapy are much reduced.
In some cases, partial removal of the larynx can be curative. However for more

14.5 Cancer of the Larynx

advanced laryngeal cancers that have spread onto the walls of the larynx or
metastasised into lymph nodes in the neck, or cancers that have recurred after
previous radiotherapy, the best chance of cure is by radical surgery. In radical
surgery the larynx is totally removed, possibly together with removal of all
draining lymph nodes (an operation called a radical laryngectomy).
Cancers in the larynx that develop above or below the vocal cords (supraglottic or sub-glottic respectively) are usually more advanced when they are fi rst
diagnosed than cancers on a vocal cord. They also tend to be more aggressive
and for this reason are often treated by combined radiotherapy and laryngectomy.
Treatment using combinations of chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy and/or
surgery are also under study to try to produce better results. By using chemotherapy with radiotherapy it seems that equally good long-term results can be
achieved without surgical removal of the larynx.
If laryngectomy is necessary and is expertly performed the chance of cure
is reasonably good but the patient (usually a male) is left with an opening of
his trachea in the lower neck (tracheostomy). Without a larynx he cannot speak
normally but most patients learn a form of oesophageal speech. By this method
they can be taught to swallow air and use regurgitated air from the stomach to

CASE REPORT
Cancer of larynx

Alex is a 67-year-old man who fi rst consulted with his family doctor about
increasing hoarseness of his voice for 3 months.
He was a heavy smoker (20 cigarettes/day for 50 years) but was otherwise healthy. No enlarged cervical nodes were detected.
Consultation with an ENT surgeon was arranged. A thorough examination was carried out including examination of the larynx with an endoscope.
Under general anaesthetic an endoscopic examination revealed an irregular wart-like lesion on the right vocal cord. Biopsy showed this to be a
squamous carcinoma that appeared to be confi ned to the right vocal cord.
He was referred for radiotherapy. External beam radiation therapy was
given and 3 months after treatment there was no evidence of residual tumour.
Now 6 months after treatment he has now stopped smoking but has
some minor residual hoarseness of his voice. He will be kept under regular
observation but has been advised that this cancer is unlikely to recur.

209

210

14

14

Head and Neck Cancers

make sounds and words. Alternatively, a mechanical vibrator powered by a small
battery can be applied to the throat muscles to make speech that sounds rather
like the artificial voice of a robot or computer.

14.5.1 The Lost Cords Club
The Lost Cords Club is a club of people who have lost their larynx by surgery
and support each other in learning to speak as well as their endeavours to cope
with other social, health and mechanical problems. Like the Colostomy Club (for
patients with a colostomy) and breast cancer support groups, there are branches
in many big cities. The mutual social support offered to members is a great help
for people who have had a laryngectomy and need to re-adjust to their changed
circumstances and learn to live a relatively normal life again.

14.6

Salivary Gland Cancers

The salivary glands are located about the mouth and secrete saliva into the mouth
especially during eating to prepare food for digestion. Most salivary gland cancers
are adenocarcinomas but some that develop in the duct lining are SCCs. There
are three major and many minor salivary glands on each side of the face.
The largest salivary gland is the parotid gland, which is situated partly in front
of and below the ear and behind the jaw. This is the salivary gland in which both
benign and malignant tumours most commonly develop. Cancers in the parotid
gland are usually fi rst noticed as a lump just in front of or below the ear. As the
cancer grows it commonly invades and destroys the facial nerve passing through
it, causing facial nerve palsy. Facial nerve palsy causes weakness of the muscles
of that side of the face resulting in inability to close the eye or to properly move
the corner of the mouth. There may be obvious loss of facial expression due to
paralysis of the muscles on that side of the face. These cancers usually develop in
middle-aged or older adults. They enlarge locally and tend to spread to local lymph
nodes in front of the ear and in the upper part of the neck. Occasionally cancers
develop from a pre-existing benign tumour in the parotid gland (a pleomorphic
adenoma or mixed parotid tumour) that may have been present for years.
Treatment of cancers of the parotid gland is usually by surgical resection.
With small cancers it may be possible to save the facial nerve but with larger
cancers it is likely that the facial nerve will be involved and will need to be sacrificed. If lymph nodes are enlarged they are usually removed in the same block of
tissue with the parotid gland. Post-operative radiotherapy is often given because
of the risk of local recurrence of these cancers.

14.6 Salivary Gland Cancers

211

Cancers in the second largest salivary gland, the sub-mandibular gland under
the jaw, and the third major salivary gland, the sublingual gland in the floor of
the mouth under the tongue, are less common. However when present they tend
to spread early to lymph nodes and are best treated by surgical excision of the
whole of the gland together with any likely involved lymph nodes.
Salivary gland tumours occasionally occur in minor salivary glands either in the
tongue, in the cheeks, lips or elsewhere. Wide surgical excision is required for treatment otherwise the chances of local recurrence are high. If there is any doubt that the
cancer has been totally removed, post-operative radiotherapy is usually given.
The use of chemotherapy in the treatment of salivary gland cancers is not yet
established. It has been used with limited success in the treatment of cancers
that have recurred after surgery. The use of induction (or neo-adjuvant) chemotherapy prior to surgical excision of salivary gland tumours is under investigation. This is one site where preoperative induction chemotherapy can be more
concentrated given by infusion into the external carotid artery but although some
success has been experienced as yet it is uncertain whether results will be consistently improved by this combined, integrated technique (Fig. 14.8 –14.10).

Fig. 14.8. Photograph showing
a large pleomorphic adenoma
(benign mixed parotid tumour) of
a parotid gland of an elderly man

212

14

14

Head and Neck Cancers

a

b

Fig. 14.9. Photographs showing small (a) and large (b) cancers in the parotid gland

Fig. 14.10. A man with a right-sided facial
palsy from a cancer in his right parotid
gland

14.7 Cancers of the Thyroid Gland

14.7

213

Cancers of the Thyroid Gland

The thyroid gland lies across the lower part of the neck with one lobe on either
side of the trachea on the lower part of the larynx. The thyroid gland uses iodine
to make the hormone thyroxine, which is essential for basic metabolism.

14.7.1

Causes and Presentation

Cancer of the thyroid gland is usually fi rst noticed as a single lump in the gland.
The lump is most often just to one or other side of the midline in the lower anterior
part of the neck but cancer may occasionally develop as one lump that enlarges and
becomes more obvious and harder in a multinodular goitre. Lumps in the thyroid
move up and down when the patient swallows due to movement of the tongue that
elevates the hyoid bone and the larynx, to which the thyroid gland is attached.
General enlargement of the thyroid gland is called a goitre, and multiple cysts
and other lumps may develop in some goitres. This process is usually due to a
shortage of iodine in the food. A lumpy goitre is known as a multinodular goitre.

CASE REPORT
Cancer of parotid gland

Akira, a 63-year-old retired Japanese businessman, fi rst presented to his
doctor with a 3-month history of a lump just in front of his left ear. He
thought the lump had been slowly increasing in size.
The doctor found a 3 cm subcutaneous lump anterior to the left ear but
no other lumps or other abnormality was detected. Facial nerve function
was normal. The doctor referred Akira to a Head and Neck Surgeon who
performed a needle biopsy of the lump.
Biopsy showed the lump to be a pleomorphic adenoma (mixed parotid
tumour).
Parotidectomy was performed with care to preserve the facial nerve.
Final pathology examination showed the presence of an area of malignant
cells in the tumour.
Although apparently completely excised the tumour margin had been
close to the facial nerve. In order to reduce the risk of recurrence, postoperative external radiation therapy was given.
Twelve months after treatment there is no evidence of residual disease.
He remains well, his facial nerve function is normal and his voice is normal but he still has dryness in his mouth.
Akira has been advised that his prognosis is good but it is still important for him to be kept under regular observation.

Cancer of the
thyroid gland
is usually ﬁrst
noticed as a
single lump
in the gland.

214

14

14

Head and Neck Cancers

Occasionally one of the lumps in a multinodular goitre will become malignant
and develop into a cancer although more often when a cancer develops in the
thyroid gland it begins as a single lump in an otherwise apparently normal thyroid
gland. Most thyroid cancers, especially those that occur in young people, are
generally characterised by slow growth with a relatively good long-term outlook
compared to other cancers.

14.7.2 Accidental Irradiation
Increased numbers of people with thyroid cancer have been one of the most
serious long-term consequences of atomic irradiation as seen in survivors of
Hiroshima and Nagasaki atomic bombs and again after the Chernobyl atomic
energy plant disaster.

14.7.3

Investigations

An isotope scan is a useful investigation for thyroid cancer. In this procedure a
scan of the thyroid is taken after injection of a very small dose of radioactive
iodine into a vein (as described in Sect. 7.3.8). The cancer will usually show as
a “cold nodule”, that is, part of the thyroid gland that is replaced by cancer, does
not concentrate the iodine and appears non-functional and clear on the scan. Most
cold nodules are benign cysts or benign adenomas but about 10% of solitary cold
nodules are cancer. However as cysts and some other lumps also show up as “cold
nodules”, to make a diagnosis the lump should be biopsied. This is usually done
by needle aspiration of fluid or cells from the lump. Alternatively the diagnosis
is more certain if the lump is surgically excised and examined microscopically.
Frozen section examination (described in Sect. 7.6.5) may then allow the surgeon
to proceed with further surgery if the lump proves to be a cancer. Occasionally a
“hot nodule”, that is a functioning thyroid lump, may be found to be a cancer.

14.7.4

Types of Thyroid Cancer

There are four broad types of thyroid cancer.

14.7.5 Papillary Cancer
Papillary carcinoma constitutes about 60% of thyroid cancers and is three times
more common in women than men. It is more common in young adults, occasionally in teenagers or even children but fortunately it is the least malignant
of thyroid cancers.
Papillary cancer may be present in different parts of the thyroid gland at the same
time and may spread to nearby draining lymph nodes, but usually does not spread

14.7 Cancers of the Thyroid Gland

further until very late in the disease. For this reason, removal of the whole of the
thyroid gland together with any enlarged lymph nodes will usually cure the patient.
After total removal of the thyroid gland the patient thereafter must take thyroid or
thyroxine tablets by mouth because thyroxine is essential for normal body function.

14.7.6

Follicular Cancer

The second most common type of thyroid cancer more commonly affects adults
of middle age and is called follicular carcinoma. It too, usually presents as a
lump in the thyroid gland and is usually not diagnosed with certainty until the
lump has been removed surgically and examined microscopically.
These cancers tend to be present in one lobe of the thyroid gland only and have
a greater tendency to spread by the bloodstream to bone, lungs or liver rather
than by lymphatics to lymph nodes. These cancers often more closely resemble
normal thyroid tissue than do the other thyroid cancers and although they usually appear as “cold nodules” in radio-iodine scans, they may sometimes scan as
normal thyroid tissue or even rarely as hyperactive “hot nodules”.
Because of their tendency to involve one lobe of the thyroid gland only they
are usually treated by removal of the involved half of the thyroid gland, leaving
the other half to carry out normal thyroid function and production of thyroxine.
Metastases may be treated by surgical excision (if in lymph nodes) by radiotherapy or by radio-active iodine being injected intravenously so that it becomes
concentrated in thyroid tissue where it irradiates and destroys cells, including the
cancer cells wherever they are. Again thyroxine tablets must be taken thereafter
to maintain normal endocrine body function. Chemotherapy is also sometimes
effective in the treatment of metastases.

14.7.7 Medullary Cancer
This type of thyroid cancer arises from the calcitonin-producing cells in the
thyroid gland. It may be familial and it may be associated with other endocrine
disturbances or with an adrenal gland tumour called pheochromocytoma. Calcitonin levels can be elevated with this cancer and will fall to normal if treatment
has been successful. Total removal of the thyroid gland usually results in cure.

14.7.8

Anaplastic Cancer

The fourth broad type of thyroid cancer is anaplastic cancer. This is the most dangerous form of thyroid cancer and is usually rapidly growing. It is fortunate that it is also
the least common. It tends to affect older people and may grow rapidly presenting
as an enlarging lump or enlarging swelling of the whole of the thyroid gland. It may
press on the trachea and make breathing difficult. This cancer is virtually incurable
by surgery and is best palliated by radiotherapy or sometimes by chemotherapy.

215

216

14

14

Head and Neck Cancers

14.7.9 Other Types
The thyroid gland is occasionally the site of other primary malignant tumours
such as lymphoma, sarcoma or even secondary cancers from a primary cancer
elsewhere, but these are uncommon.

CASE REPORT
Metastatic thyroid cancer

James was a 43-year-old schoolteacher when he fi rst consulted his family
doctor about a lump in his right upper neck that he had fi rst noticed 6
months ago. His doctor did not fi nd any other significant abnormality so
James was referred to a Head and Neck Surgeon.
A needle biopsy showed the lesion to be metastatic papillary cancer of
the thyroid in a lymph node.
James had previously been well with no history of thyroid disease and
no other palpable lumps or nodes were detected but a thyroid ultrasound
showed the presence of multiple small nodules throughout both lobes of
the thyroid gland. The largest nodules were one measuring 17 mm in the
right lobe and one measuring 15 mm in the left lobe.
When his larynx was examined his vocal cords were symmetric with
normal mobility.
James was advised that although he had a thyroid cancer and that a
lymph node was involved most such cancers were eminently curable by
surgery. Total thyroidectomy (surgical resection of his thyroid both lobes
and isthmus) together with all nearby lymph nodes in the right side of his
neck was advised and carried out without any complication. James made
an uneventful recovery.
A total of 23 lymph nodes were found in the resected tissue but no other
nodes were found to contain cancer. Pathology examination of the thyroid
gland showed it to contain multi-focal papillary thyroid cancer within the
right lobe.
James was commenced on thyroid hormone replacement therapy (thyroxin by mouth) and was advised that he would need to take thyroxin for
the rest of his life.
After 3 months James is well and has returned to his school-teaching
profession. He will be kept under regular observation but a long-term cure
is expected.

Cancers of Female Genital Organs

15

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Cancers of the uterus
› Cancer of the ovary
› Cancer of the vagina
› Cancer of the vulva

15.1

Cancers of the Uterus

There are two distinct types of cancer of the uterus. Squamous cell carcinoma
(SCC) of the cervix or opening of the uterus is the more common. The other
type is an endometrial or glandular cancer (adenocarcinoma) of the lining of
the cavity of the uterus (the body of the uterus).

15.2

Cancer of the Cervix

15.2.1

Presentation and Risk Factors

Cervical cancer can occur in any woman especially over the age of 40 but there
are particular risk factors in some groups of women, for example it is more
common in smokers and erosions and inflammation of the cervix are predisposing factors Infection with a sexually transmitted virus, the human papilloma
virus (HPV), has become a very significant factor. The HPV, being sexually
transmitted, is more common in women who have had multiple sexual partners,
particularly if sexual activity started early in life. Prostitutes are at particular
risk. Cervical cancer is significantly more common in women in lower socioeconomic groups and in recent years has been seen to be one of the cancers that
more commonly develops in women with HIV infection or AIDS.

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_15, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

An annual
routine cervical
smear test
(the Pap test)
will usually
detect these
cancers early
and at a very
curable stage.

217

218 1

15

5 Cancers of Female Genital Organs

The earliest changes associated with this cancer are most often present in
women between the ages of 30 and 40. Usually at this age there are no symptoms
but there may be a little blood staining from the vagina between periods, especially after intercourse, or there may be a watery discharge.
Cancers of the cervix tend to develop slowly but can usually be detected by
routine cervical screening examination (the Papanicolaou or cervical smear test
described in Sect. 7.2.1) in which abnormal (dysplastic) or frankly malignant
cells may be found. An annual routine cervical smear test (the Pap test) will usually detect these cancers early and at a very curable stage.

15.2.2 Investigations
Sometimes the cancers cannot be seen on visual examination of the cervix but
at other times a cancer may be seen as a reddish, eroded ulcerated or possibly
bleeding lesion. Modern colposcopes are now often used to better visualise the
inner lining of the cervix and uterus. In any case a biopsy is taken for pathological
examination to confi rm the diagnosis.

15.2.3

Treatment

Very small early cancers may be treated by surgical removal of the lining of the
cervix only, especially in women who wish to have more babies. Larger invasive
cancers are best treated by removal of the uterus (total hysterectomy). Cancers
that have begun to spread from the cervix onto the adjacent vagina present more
of a problem. They often respond well when initially treated with a combination of chemotherapy/radiotherapy given together as concomitant treatment and
sometimes followed by hysterectomy.
If cancer of the cervix has not been diagnosed until it is quite advanced, there
is a risk of metastatic spread to lymph nodes, especially lymph nodes in the
pelvis. This situation is more likely in women of more than 40 years of age who
have not had regular Pap tests. These women often complain of some bleeding
and discharge between menstrual periods or after intercourse. If an advanced,
ulcerating or fungating cancer is present it should be obvious on examination of
the cervix. Surrounding tissues such as the ureters or the rectum may become
involved as well as the local draining lymph nodes in the pelvis. CT scans will
help detect the extent of the cancer. Such advanced cancers are usually treated by
radical surgery or by radiotherapy or both or by radiotherapy and chemotherapy
concomitantly followed by radical surgery.
Early use of chemotherapy alone was disappointing with this cancer. It has
been given as induction treatment both systemically and by regional infusion as
part of an integrated treatment program and although early results were disappointing studies have been continued in some centres using different treatment
schedules in different combinations with more encouraging results. However

15.2 Cancer of the Cervix

219

programs of chemotherapy (using the anti-cancer agent cisplatin) and radiotherapy, given together as concomitant treatment, have given best results in several
studies. Chemotherapy is also sometimes given as palliative treatment for widespread cancer but substantial prolonged benefit is not common.

15.2.4

Prevention

In recent years the association of the HPV with cancer of the cervix has been
more intensely investigated with a view to introducing more effective preventive
measures. Types 16 and 18 of this virus are considered to be the most pathogenic
and attempts at developing a vaccine against the virus are more than encouraging. A successful preventive vaccination trial in a large study group has recently
been reported. National vaccination programmes are now being established in
several countries to 12–13-year-old girls.

CASE REPORT
Cervical cancer
When she first presented Dianne was 46 years of age and had previously been
in good health. She was married with three children. She had not had regular
Pap smears, the last possibly some 5 years previously. On presentation she
had recently experienced some menstrual cycle irregularity and post-coital
bleeding. Her general practitioner initially treated her with progesterone
agents to control what was thought to be dysfunctional bleeding.
She returned some 3 weeks later with reduced but ongoing irregular
bleeding. She was then referred to a gynaecologist who on vaginal pelvic
examination confi rmed an obvious malignant growth involving her cervix.
A biopsy in the clinic confi rmed an invasive SCC.
Dianne was then referred to a specialist gynaecological oncologist.
An examination under anaesthesia (EUA) was arranged, meanwhile an
abdominal and pelvic CT scan confi rmed a large cervical lesion measuring
5 cm in diameter without obvious extension and no radiological evidence
of involvement of lymph nodes. The EUA, which included a cystoscopy,
sigmoidoscopy, vaginal speculum examination and bimanual recto-vaginal
pelvic examination, confi rmed a large “barrel-shaped” cervical tumour
approximately 5 cm in diameter without para-metrial or vaginal extension. She was then staged (officially according to the international system)
as a stage 1b2 cervical cancer, meaning a large locally invasive cancer but
apparently limited to the cervix).
(continued)

220 1

15

5 Cancers of Female Genital Organs

(continued)
At the post-operative consultation, the gynaecological oncologist discussed
with Dianne and her husband the options for management. The first option was
for an abdominal radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymph node dissection.
Advantages of such an approach is the removal of the tumour and a formal assessment of the pelvic lymph nodes rather than relying on radiological evidence of
apparent disease spread. Disadvantages of such an approach is that the majority
of patients with large barrel shaped tumours have pelvic lymph node metastases and the majority of patients also then need to undergo additional treatment
comprising concurrent chemo-irradiation treatment. The second and largely
favoured option was to treat with definitive chemo-irradiation therapy and avoid
surgery. Advantages of such an approach would be an identical survival rate but
significantly reduced morbidity, as surgery has not been undertaken.
Dianne considered her options and opted for the latter approach. She underwent 6 weeks of external pelvic irradiation therapy with weekly chemotherapy (using low dose cisplatin). Towards the end of her external beam treatment she was given additional treatment by internal or brachytherapy.
Now 3 years post treatment Dianne remains well without clinical evidence
of disease. She has undergone menopause, probably related to the effects of
therapy on her ovaries. Her only ongoing morbidity is narrowing of the vagina
requiring regular vaginal dilator treatment.

EXERCISE
Consider the reasons why there has been an increased incidence of cancer
of the cervix over the latter part of the twentieth century and why this
pattern is now likely to be reversed.

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

15.3 Cancer of the Body of the Uterus (Endometrial Cancer)

15.3

Cancer of the Body of the Uterus (Endometrial Cancer)

15.3.1

Presentation

These cancers are most commonly seen in older women. It is believed that change
in female sex hormones, and especially an imbalance of hormones, may contribute to development of this cancer, which is becoming rather more common,
because more women are living longer. It is now recognised that endometrial
cancer is sometimes associated with long-term post-menopausal oestrogen therapy
or long-term use of tamoxifen to treat or prevent of breast cancer.
The most common feature of endometrial cancer is bleeding and bloodstained
discharge after the menopause but sometimes a watery discharge is the only
feature.

15.3.2

Investigations

The uterus is usually enlarged and, to establish a diagnosis, curettage is performed.
The scrapings from the curette are sent for pathology examination.

15.3.3 Treatment
Treatment of cancer of the body of the uterus is usually by radical surgery.
The surgeon performs a total hysterectomy as well as removal of ovaries,
fallopian tubes and removal of draining lymph nodes. For advanced cancers,
radiotherapy is sometimes given before or after hysterectomy.
Like most cancers, treatment at an early stage can achieve good results but for
more advanced cancers, results of treatment are often disappointing.
If endometrial cancer has spread to other tissues or organs it will often respond to
hormone treatment (for example large-dose progesterone therapy) but a long-term
cure is unlikely. Studies are being made of combined integrated treatment using
intra-arterial chemotherapy first as “induction” treatment followed by radiotherapy
and/or surgery (see Sects. 8.3.4.8–8.3.4.9). Chemotherapy and radiotherapy are
sometimes given concomitantly as induction treatment. Whether these programs
of treatment will achieve significantly better results is as yet uncertain.

221

222 1

15

5 Cancers of Female Genital Organs

CASE REPORT
Corpus cancer
On presentation Lynne was a 63-year-old obese woman with multiple medical complaints. She had been constantly in attendance at her general practitioner’s surgery with various complaints. Apart from her obesity, she was
also diabetic and hypertensive. She had undergone menopause at age 51 and
although she had subsequently been on combined oestrogen replacement
therapy for 5 years, she was not on any hormonal treatment when she presented. Lynne had experienced 2–3 episodes of bright vaginal spotting over
the preceding 3 months. Her general practitioner performed a speculum and
vaginal pelvic examination and a Pap test. The cervix appeared normal and
the Pap test was subsequently also reported as normal. A trans-abdominal
and trans-vaginal ultrasound was arranged confirming a bulky uterus and
an endometrial lesion measuring 13-mm in thickness. She was referred to
a gynaecologist and subsequently underwent a hysteroscopy and dilation
and curettage (D&C). A fundal polypoid tumour was seen at hysteroscopy
and curettage confirmed a carcinoma (classified as grade 2 endometrioid
adenocarcinoma).
Lynne was referred to a specialist gynaecological oncologist. Management options were discussed with Lynne and her husband including radiation
therapy and surgery. As the survival of patients treated with pelvic irradiation
is inferior to those treated with definitive surgery, the latter was chosen as the
preferable treatment option. Through a vertical midline incision an abdominal
hysterectomy and bila-teral salpingo-oophorectomy was performed. There
was no apparent extra-uterine spread. As frozen section histology confirmed
evidence of myometrial invasion a pelvic lymph node dissection was then
performed to define the extent of disease.
Lynne recovered from surgery without major morbidity. There was no
evidence of lymph node invasion in any of the 22 pelvic nodes examined.
Likewise pelvic cytology was negative for malignant cells and no malignancy was found in an omental biopsy. Lynne was not given further treatment as her disease had been confi rmed surgically to be confi ned to the
uterus.
Her post treatment surveillance comprised regular attendances to her
gynaecological oncologist, pelvic examination, and vaginal vaults smears. Now
5 years post treatment Lynne remains without clinical evidence of disease.

15.5 Cancer of the Ovary

15.4

Choriocarcinoma

Although a choriocarcinoma starts and grows in the uterus, it is strictly not a
cancer of the uterus. A choriocarcinoma is best considered as a cancer of an
abnormal pregnancy.
After conception, very occasionally an abnormal growth of tissue develops instead of a normal foetus and placenta. If the foetus does not develop and
the placenta grows as a group of cyst-like structures something like a bunch of
grapes, this is called a hydatidiform mole.
Sometimes cells of an hydatidiform mole develop into an invasive cancer
called a choriocarcinoma. Occasionally choriocarcinoma will develop in association with a foetus, usually an abnormal foetus, which is aborted spontaneously,
or rarely even with an otherwise normal pregnancy. However, most in fact are
in association with a hydatidiform mole with no foetus, usually in women over
40 years of age.
In the past, choriocarcinoma spread widely and rapidly through the mother’s
body and was a fatal form of cancer. Nowadays the condition is treated by emptying the uterus of its contents, (curettage), and giving cytotoxic chemotherapeutic
drugs. This is one of the success stories of chemotherapy as choriocarcinoma has
been changed from a cancer approaching 100% fatality 30 or 35 years ago to a
cancer that is curable in 80% or more cases with modern chemotherapy.

15.5

223

This is one of
the success
stories of
chemotherapy.

Cancer of the Ovary

The ovaries are the source of a greater variety of tumours, both benign and
malignant, than any other body organ. This is probably because of the multicellular and changing nature of the ovaries, as organs with a function of undergoing monthly cyclic changes to prepare one of the eggs (ova) in the ovaries for
potential development into new tissues, i.e. a foetus. Not only does the ovary
produce a variety of tumours ranging from benign (the majority) to low-grade
malignancy and to highly malignant cancers, they may also produce tumours that
excrete hormones that may affect body development and function. Some ovarian
cancers are germ-cell cancers not unlike some cancers of the testis.
Cancers of the ovary may be solid or cystic or they may contain a mixture of
solid and cystic elements. They tend to cause no symptoms early in their development and so they are often advanced when fi rst diagnosed.
There is no known cause of ovarian cancers but there are some genetic associations. The BRCA1 and BRCA2 tumour suppressor genes are known risk factors
and there is sometimes a strong family history of ovarian cancer (see Sect. 2.4).
These same genes are more commonly recognised as risk factors in premenopausal breast cancer and there is an increased risk of women who have had a
breast cancer before menopause to later develop ovarian cancer.

The ovaries are
the source of a
greater variety
of tumours,
both benign
and malignant,
than any other
body organ.

224 1

5 Cancers of Female Genital Organs

15.5.1 Presentation

15
Cancers of the
ovary develop
insidiously.

Cancers of the ovary develop insidiously. They usually cause a gradually increasing
swelling in the pelvis and lower abdomen. The swelling may have been noticed by
the patient or may be found on examination by a doctor who may sometimes fi nd
a symptomless pelvic mass during a general examination. They may sometimes
cause a “heavy feeling” or local discomfort or pain. Some produce hormones, in
which case the first evidence may be due to hormonal changes such as premature
menopause and the woman may notice loss of feminine features and the development of male characteristics such as growth of hair on the face or deepening of
the voice. Sometimes too, generalised abdominal swelling may be noticed due
either to a huge tumour or to fluid in the abdominal cavity (ascites).
Any rapidly enlarging swelling on an ovary, especially if it is solid or contains
a mixture of cystic and solid elements, must be regarded with suspicion as likely
to be malignant.

15.5.2

Investigations

Examination of the pelvis and pelvic structures by abdominal, vaginal or rectal
examination without anaesthetic may not be adequate and EUA may be required.
Abdominal X-rays or CT scans may help but ultrasound examination is the
least harmful examination, especially in young women, and is often the most
helpful because cystic changes in the ovary and cystic tumours are best detected
by ultrasound.
Laparoscopy or culdoscopy (Sects. 7.4.12–7.4.13) may allow the surgeon or
gynaecologist to see the contents of the pelvis, especially the ovaries.
A tumour marker, CA125, can be useful in assessing not only the presence
of cancer but response to treatment and risk of recurrence after treatment. Similarly germ-cell tumours, like germ-cell tumours of the testis, usually produce the
tumour markers alpha-foeto-protein (AFT), human chorionic hormone (HCG)
and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). Measuring the levels of these may give a good
indication of the presence of this cancer and its response to treatment.
Usually a diagnosis of cancer cannot be established with certainty until an
operation (laparoscopy or laparotomy) has been carried out and a biopsy specimen of any suspicious lesion has been examined microscopically.

15.5.3

Treatment

The best treatment of ovarian cancer, especially if not advanced, is by total
surgical removal of the ovaries and fallopian tubes. Because the other ovary
and other pelvic organs may also be the site of cancer, it is usual to remove both
ovaries as well as the uterus and tubes and any other involved tissue. However
in a young woman with early and localised ovarian cancer, sometimes one ovary
can be spared. The operation is sometimes followed by radiotherapy to the pelvis

15.5 Cancer of the Ovary

225

or chemotherapy. If the cancer is advanced chemotherapy and radiotherapy
may be used together with good effect. Even if the cancer cannot be removed,
results are better if the tumour is “debulked”, that is, as much of the cancer as
possible is removed. The patient is often then treated by radiotherapy. Adjuvant
chemotherapy after surgical removal also improves survival rates.
Chemotherapy is often effective in controlling widespread metastases for a
worthwhile period (possibly some years) but long-term cure is unlikely.
Combinations of local chemotherapy (intra-arterial infusion and/or intraperitoneal) with radiotherapy and/or surgery, are presently under study in some
special clinics but it is not yet certain whether these techniques of integrated
treatment will achieve significantly better results with safety.
Studies are also being carried out on the use of pre-operative chemotherapy
given as induction treatment to reduce locally advanced cancers. The surgery
that follows is then hopefully more likely to be curative but even if it is not curative “debulking” the cancer mass by removing most of the residual cancer does
improve the patient’s quality of life for a longer period. In some clinics, where
appropriate and facilities are available, pre-operative induction chemotherapy
is given by intra-arterial infusion with a greater concentration and apparently
greater local tumour impact. To date results have been encouraging but longterm results of clinical trials are awaited with interest (see Chap. 8).

15.5.4 Prevention
Because cancers sometimes develop from benign tumours of the ovary it is usually advisable to remove both ovaries in treating any woman over 40 years for a
benign ovarian tumour. In some women whose families have strong associations
with breast and/or ovarian cancer or women known to have BRCA1 or BRCA2
genes, oophorectomy should be considered as an effective cancer prevention
measure. Also, gynaecologists often advise removal of ovaries as a preventive
measure when they perform hysterectomy in women over 40.
A slightly lower incidence of ovarian cancer in women who use modern oral
contraceptives has been reported.

15.5.5 Metastatic Cancer of the Ovary
The ovaries are commonly a site of secondary metastatic cancer from a primary
cancer elsewhere. Advanced cancer of the breast, stomach, bowel and melanoma
frequently metastasise to ovaries. Sometimes a cancer of the ovary that appears
to be a primary ovarian cancer has come from an unknown and symptomless
primary cancer in another organ or tissue. When stomach cancer was much
more common that it is today, it was not uncommon to fi nd an apparently primary cancer of the ovary was composed of gastric cancer cells and was in fact
a secondary gastric cancer. This was fi rst described by a Dr Krukenberg and
became known as a Krukenberg tumour.

The ovaries
are commonly
a site of
secondary
metastatic
cancer from a
primary cancer
elsewhere.

226 1

15

5 Cancers of Female Genital Organs

CASE REPORT
Ovarian cancer
Mary was a 63 year-old woman who had been unwell for 3 months when she
noticed increasing non-specific gastrointestinal upsets and abdominal swelling.
While her complaints were initially attributed to a minor gastrointestinal
upset, she returned to her GP with progression of symptoms. On physical
examination shifting dullness confirmed clinical ascites. A CT scan of the
abdomen and pelvis confirmed a large complex pelvic mass, gross ascites
and thickening in the omentum, consistent with an ovarian cancer.
She was referred directly to a specialist gynaecological oncologist.
(A CA125 tumour marker test was ordered and noted to be grossly elevated
at 1,200 U/mL; the normal being < 35 U/mL). A pelvic examination confi rmed a large fi xed pelvic mass.
The options for management discussed with Mary were for initial induction (neoadjuvant) chemotherapy for three cycles to assess the chemosensitivity of the tumour followed by debulking or cytoreductive surgery.
This would be followed by another three cycles of chemotherapy. The second and more commonly employed management of patients with suspected
ovarian cancer was for initial surgery, again to confi rm the diagnosis,
secondly to debulk or remove as much tumour load as possible and then
follow this with six cycles of combination chemotherapy.
Mary subsequently underwent exploratory surgery via a midline abdominal incision. Three litres of clear ascites fluid was drained. Operative
fi ndings included a large pelvic mass arising from the left ovary and
involving the recto-sigmoid colon. There was also a large omental tumour
mass, (sometimes referred to as “cake”), replacing both the infra and
supra-colic omentum. Successful tumour de-bulking was accomplished
but this required resection of the pelvic mass en bloc including the uterus
and recto-sigmoid. A primary end-to-end anastomosis was performed to
restore functional integrity of the bowel.
Final pathology confi rmed a high-grade serous ovarian cancer.
Mary completed six cycles of combination chemotherapy (comprising
Carboplatin and Taxol) and was in clinical, biochemical and radiological
remission for 22 months. At one of her surveillance visits her CA125 level,
which had become normal with treatment, was again rising from a baseline
of 20–120 U/mL. She remained asymptomatic and no disease was initially
seen on CT scanning but she was given Tamoxifen for 3 months. However
a PET scan 3 months later confi rmed widespread recurrence of cancer. Her
CA125 level had risen to 400 U/mL and she was now developing further
non-specific gastrointestinal symptoms.
(continued)

15.4 Cancer of the Ovary

227

(continued)
She was again treated with chemotherapy but despite having initial
improvement in her symptoms and her CA125 level, she suffered another further relapse some 9 months later and was commenced on second line palliative
chemotherapy. Further response was not achieved despite receiving a number
of other chemotherapy agents. Lynne died of disease causing further bowel
obstruction 42 months after her initial surgery.

C AS E R E P O R T
Ovarian cancer
A 55-year-old woman was admitted to hospital with abdominal pain and
vomiting. She had surgery 10 years previously for a right ovarian cyst. She
was the mother of one child and had been menopausal for 5 years. Since
menopause she had been taking hormone replacement therapy.
Her family history included breast cancers in her mother and a maternal
aunt and a colon cancer in her father. Rapidly, Investigations were immediately arranged, including abdominal CT scan and tumour marker tests.
The CT scans showed a right ovarian tumour with ascites and enlarged
retroperitoneal lymph nodes. Tumour markers were CEA (carcinoembrionic antigen) with a high level of 50 ng/mL and most significantly a CA125
of 1,200 U/mL.
A laparotomy was carried out both to establish a diagnosis and to remove
as much of the tumour as possible. This is called “de-bulking surgery”. It
included removal of both ovaries and fallopian tubes, the uterus and most
of the omentum, as well as pelvic lymph nodes.
The tumour was an undifferentiated adenocarcinoma of the ovary, with
bilateral ovarian, peritoneal and lymph nodes involvement. Cancer cells
were also in the ascitic fluid.
After surgery, the CA125 level fell to 500 U/mL and the CEA to 20 ng/mL.
Adjuvant chemotherapy has been shown to improve survival rates with
metastatic ovarian cancer so the oncologist arranged six cycles of a taxanebased chemotherapy. After completing the six cycles of chemotherapy a
CT-scan showed no evidence of a residual cancer and the tumour markers
were normal. No further surgery was performed but the patient was kept
under regular surveillance.
Less than 2 years later, the patient faced an increasing swelling in the
pelvis and lower abdomen and the diagnosis of local recurrent disease was
(continued)

228 1

15

5 Cancers of Female Genital Organs

(continued)
made (ascites and peritoneal carcinomatosis). Another combination of cytotoxic agents was administered over 6 months without success. Abdominal
pain and discomfort developed so that a program palliative care commenced
fi rst by her oncologist and subsequently by a specialist palliative care team.
Much needed symptomatic, physical, psychological and emotional support
and care were achieved until the patient’s fi nal death.
As the history of breast cancer in her family and her personal ovarian cancer,
the oncologist proposed to investigate the status of the patient’s daughter for
genetic mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes was advised as a possible
preventive measure. Some women with mutations in these genes elect to have
a double mastectomy to prevent risk of cancer.

EXERCISE
Consider why cancers of the ovary are of so many and varied types
and why cancers of the ovary are so often not diagnosed
until the later stages of the disease.

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
Metastatic cancers in an ovary are best treated by removal of the ovaries if
there is no apparent cancer anywhere else, otherwise the treatment will depend
upon the best treatment for the type of cancer concerned wherever else it may be
and from where it originated.

15.6

Cancer of the Vagina

The vagina is occasionally the site of a cancer. Most are squamous cell cancers
in middle aged or older women. However some cases of adenocarcinomas of the
vagina have been reported in adolescent girls and young women. Some of these
have been associated with stilboestrol which was once given to their mothers, in
the early stages of the mother’s pregnancy, to prevent spontaneous abortion.

15.7 Cancer of the Vulva

229

Cancers of the vagina usually present as bleeding and discharge. Pain on passing
urine and pain with intercourse (dyspareunia) are often features that most trouble
the patients.
Most small cancers can be cured by surgical excision but larger cancers are
treated with radiotherapy with about a 50% cure rate. Care must be taken to treat
groin lymph nodes if they show evidence of involvement either at the time of
treatment of the primary cancer or in the follow-up period.

15.7

Cancer of the Vulva

Like cancer of the anus, cancer of the vulva is a rare but rather aggressive form
of skin cancer usually of the squamous cell type. Most occur in women of
post-menopausal age. Cancer of the vulva is often preceded by a long history
of irritation, discomfort or inflammation of the vulva and possibly with a local
bloodstained discharge. There may be a pre-malignant condition of leukoplakia or a chronic rash. Previous infection with the sexually transmitted HPV is
responsible for some cases.
In the more advanced stages there may be an ulcer, a lump or a cauliflowerlike growth. Metastatic spread to lymph nodes in one or both groins is likely in
about half of the patients at the time of diagnosis.
Diagnosis is established by biopsy and treatment is usually by wide and radical
surgical excision, and most patients are cured. Pre-malignant papillomas or a
localised patch of leukoplakia are best treated by surgical excision as a cancer
preventive measure.
For very advanced cases, radiotherapy offers palliative relief but integrated
treatment using chemotherapy and radiotherapy or intra-arterial induction chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy and/or surgery, are presently under study in
specialised centres. As yet it is not established whether better long-term results
will be achieved by these techniques.

Cancer of the
vulva is often
preceded by
a long history
of irritation,
discomfort or
inﬂammation
of the vulva.

Cancers of the Male Genital Organs

16

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Cancer of the penis
› Cancer of the testis
› Cancer of the prostate gland

16.1

Cancer of the Penis

Penile cancer is uncommon, particularly in Western societies. It is almost unknown
in Jewish males who are circumcised soon after birth but is a little more common
in Muslim males who are circumcised at about 10 or 12 years. Most that are seen
are in uncircumcised men. Lack of genital hygiene and cleanliness may be a factor
or sometimes this cancer is associated with the sexually transmitted human papilloma virus.
It is essentially a squamous cell cancer similar to the common skin cancers
but somewhat more aggressive. It tends to spread rather more readily to draining
lymph nodes in the groins than is usual for other squamous cancers of skin.
Most cases are fi rst seen when a small crusty, papillomatous or small ulcerated skin lesion is present and these can usually be well treated by surgical
removal of the lesion, keeping a close watch on draining groin lymph nodes
thereafter. Occasionally very advanced cases are seen, usually in men living in
remote places or undeveloped communities. These usually respond well to induction chemotherapy especially if given by intra-arterial infusion. Involved lymph
nodes should be surgically resected. A series of quite spectacular responses of
very advanced cancers on the penis have been reported from Taiwan using intraarterial infusion chemotherapy, followed by surgery or radiotherapy. A high incidence of cure was reported.

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_16, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

231

232

16

16

16.2

Cancers of the Male Genital Organs

Cancer of the Testis

Testicular tumours are not common but when they do occur they are almost
always malignant. Most occur in young adult males between the ages of 18
and 40. They are almost all classified as “germ cell” tumours. Germ cells are
embryonic type cells capable of developing into different cell types. Germ cell
cancers are uncommon, but they occur most often in a testis. Occasionally they
occur in midline structures like the mediastinum or retro-peritoneum or pineal
gland usually in children or young adults. Some cancers of the ovary are also
germ cell cancers.
There are no known causes of testicular cancer. They are more common in
developed than developing countries but the reason for this is not known. They
are distinctly more likely to occur in undescended testes. Cryptorchidism is a
condition in which the testes have not descended from the abdomen, where they
develop, into the scrotum where they should be present at birth. If one or
both testes are not present in the scrotum of infant boys, they are retained in the
abdomen or the inguinal canal or somewhere nearby. Surgical operation (orchidopexy) should be performed before the age of 8 or 10 to place the testes into their
normal position. This will reduce the risk of development of testicular cancer
sometime later in life, after puberty. It is postulated that the warmer temperature
of the testes in the abdomen may be responsible for the increased risk of testicular
cancer in undescended testes.
Similarly there is an increased risk in men with Klinefelter’s syndrome. This
is an abnormal genetic condition in which rather than having XX or XY sex
chromosomes, the affected individuals have three chromosomes, XXY. This
gives some female characteristics in otherwise apparently tall, thin underdeveloped males with small underdeveloped testes that are more prone to malignant
change.

16.2.1
Cancer of the
testis is usually
found as a
painless and
non-tender
swelling of
a testis.

Presentation

Cancer of the testis is usually found as a painless and non-tender swelling of a
testis although occasionally the swelling is tender and possibly painful. Occasionally no swelling is noticed in the testis until there is evidence of metastatic
spread of a cancer. Metastases may be noticed as a mass of enlarged and sometimes tender lymph nodes in the abdomen, enlarged lymph nodes in the neck,
usually the left side known as Virchow’s nodes (Sect. 5.4) or as metastases in
lungs seen in chest X-rays. Occasionally the fi rst evidence of a testicular cancer
may be swelling of a man’s breasts due to hormonal changes. In other patients
the fi rst evidence may be of general debility, anorexia (loss of appetite) and
weight loss.

16.2 Cancer of the Testis

233

16.2.2 Investigations
If a swelling is detected in a testis, ultrasound of the testis will help confirm if
a solid tumour is present. If found it is almost always a cancer. In such cases
investigations are carried out to look for evidence of metastatic spread. CT scans
and excretory urograms (IVP X-rays described in Sect. 7.3.2) and these may be
helpful in detecting any enlarged lymph nodes in the abdomen. Chest X-rays
may help detect metastases in lungs or in lymph nodes in the chest (mediastinal
lymph nodes).
An operation is recommended to confi rm the diagnosis and allow the testis to
be examined and removed if a tumour is clearly present.

16.2.3

Pathology

There are two broad types of testicular cancer, of about equal incidence, seminomas
and non-seminomas most of which are teratomas. Seminomas tend to occur in
slightly older age groups (mean 35 years) and are very sensitive to radiotherapy.
Non-seminomas, or non-seminoma germ cell tumours (NSGCT), often contain a
mixture of histologies including embryonal, yolk sac, choriocarcinoma, teratomas
and seminomas. They are most often in younger age groups (mean 25 years) and
are less sensitive to radiotherapy but are highly responsive to chemotherapy.
A number of tumour markers in the blood will help detect and classify testicular cancers and so indicate most appropriate treatment and help assess response
to treatment. Alpha-feto-protein (AFP), human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG)
and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) can all be useful testicular cancer markers. If
the level of a tumour marker is elevated, it helps establish a diagnosis of tumour
type and if the level falls to normal after treatment it indicates a good response
to treatment and probably a cure.

16.2.4 Treatment
Cancer of a testis is treated by surgical removal of the testis (through an inguinal
approach) and radiotherapy is given to draining lymph nodes in the abdomen
or to any other lymph nodes likely to be involved, especially if seminoma was
diagnosed.
In the case of teratoma even if the cancer is widespread into the lungs or
elsewhere, good results, with a high proportion of long-term cures, are achieved
with chemotherapy.
From being among the cancers with a poor prognosis a few years ago, with presentday integrated and combined treatment programs using surgery, radiotherapy and
chemotherapy, testicular cancers are now among the most curable cancers.
Patients should be advised that it is still possible to lead a normal sex life and
to father children with only one testis.

A number
of tumour
markers in
the blood will
help detect
and classify
testicular
cancers.

234

16

16

Cancers of the Male Genital Organs

EX ERCISE
Drawing on case reports in this chapter and other chapters of this book,
construct a case report of a typical patient presenting with and being
investigated and managed for a testicular cancer.

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

16.3

Almost all
men over the
age of 90 have
microscopic
evidence of
at least early
prostate cancer.

Cancer of the Prostate Gland

Cancer of the prostate is uncommon before the age of 45 but in Western countries,
other than skin cancer, it is the most common cancer in men over the age of 65
and became increasingly common during the twentieth century, especially in
the latter part of the twentieth century.
This rapid rise in recorded incidence is due in part to the use of the prostate
specific antigens (PSA) test for detecting early subclinical prostate cancers or
“latent” prostate cancers that might not have otherwise progressed to a clinical
stage. The rise in apparent incidence of prostate cancer after the common use of
PSA as a screening test is somewhat similar the increased numbers of early breast
cancers in the 1980s and 1990s after common use of mammography as a screening test. However the PSA test is much less specific for prostate cancer, a raised
index simply indicates increased prostate cell activity that may be due to benign
prostate disease, latent prostate cancer or established prostate cancer. Evidence
suggests that early breast cancers are unlikely to remain “latent” for any length of
time but “latent” prostate cancer may well remain non-invasive indefi nitely.
The cause of prostate cancer is largely unknown but its association with old
age is illustrated by the fact that in Western countries almost all men over the age
of 90 have microscopic evidence of at least early prostate cancer.
There is a familial association of prostate cancer especially in younger men
(below 55 years) and some of these are linked to mutations of the BRCA2 gene
(see Sects. 2.4 and 2.5). The increased familial association is greater if male relatives have had prostate cancer but there is also some increase in families with a
high incidence in men on the mothers’ side of the family.
There is also an increased risk in men with a history of prostatitis.
Prostate cancer is now the second most common cancer in males in Western
countries, after skin cancers, and it is second only to lung cancer as a cause of
cancer death in men. In stark contrast epidemiological studies show that Asians,

16.3 Cancer of the Prostate Gland

Africans and native-Americans living in their traditional lifestyles have a low
incidence of prostate cancer (see Appendix and Table 1).
The highest incidence is in black males in the USA followed by white males
in the USA, Europe, and other Western countries. The lowest incidence of prostate cancer is in men in India and South East Asia and also in black males living
in Africa. Men of Asian or African ethnicity who have lived all their lives in
Western Countries have a high risk, and in Afro-Americans an even higher risk,
than in white males of those countries. This suggests that causes are more closely
related to environmental factors rather than racial or genetic factors. It is likely
that differences in diet may play a part because prostate cancer is less common
in communities that have predominantly vegetarian diets.
Recent studies have indicated that diets with a high content of legumes, such
as soybeans, may be protective and it could be that the high content of phytoestrogens is at least partly responsible. Results of studies of the possible preventive
or clinical use of lycopene are similarly being awaited with considerable interest.
Laboratory studies with lycopene indicate that its apparent anti-cancer protective activity is synergistically enhanced if used together with beta-carotenes or
vitamin D (Sects. 2.8, 2.13 and 3.5.1). Each of these alone has been shown to have
some cancer protective activity but used together the total anti-cancer activity is
greater than the sum of the activity of each used alone. Whether a similar symbiotic activity might result from phytoestrogens used with lycopene is presently
under study.
There have also been reports of a protective factor in tea, possibly by virtue
of anti-oxidants in tea, but this is as yet unconfi rmed. Other anti-oxidants that
may have some protective effect are selenium, and vitamin E as well as lycopene,
possibly by interfering with the pathway towards cellular mutation. It has also
been reported that men taking Statins (used for lowering blood cholesterol) have
been incidentally found to have a reduced incidence of aggressive metastasising prostate cancers. Fish and fish oils in diet also give some protection against
prostate cancer.
Oboesity with lack of exercise and a high animal fat intake are increased risk
factors.

16.3.1

Presentation

The most common presentation of prostate cancer is frequency, hesitancy and
other difficulties in passing urine. Non-malignant enlargement of the prostate
(prostate hyperplasia) is very common in late middle-aged and older men and is
most often the cause of urinary difficulty, but prostate cancer is also a common
cause of this trouble, especially in older men.
Occasionally the fi rst evidence of cancer of the prostate is due to metastases either in bone (causing bone pain or fractures) or in the liver (causing liver
enlargement). Metastases in the lower vertebral column or pelvis may cause
pressure on a sciatic nerve before it passes into the leg, but causing severe pain

235

236

16

16

Cancers of the Male Genital Organs

in the back and leg called sciatica. Sciatica is sometimes the first evidence
of prostate cancer but more often there is another physical cause such as a
“slipped vertebral disc”.

16.3.2

Investigations

The prostate gland can be felt by an examining fi nger in the rectum. This is
called a digital rectal examination (DRE). With a gloved fi nger passed through
the anus into the rectum the prostate gland can be felt in front of the fi nger.
Cancer in the prostate usually feels like a hard lump or lumps in the prostate
or sometimes the whole of the prostate gland may feel hard and rigid. A biopsy
may be taken with a needle passed via the anus through the anterior rectal wall
or it may also be taken with a needle passed through the skin in front of the
anus and guided by a fi nger in the rectum.
Ultrasound is now used with special equipment that is passed through the
anus into the rectum. Ultrasound will show any lumps in the prostate and any
general prostate enlargement. Biopsies are usually now best taken with a special
punch or needle during ultrasound examination to discover whether any of the
lumps are cancer.
X-rays will be taken for evidence of metastatic spread into bones. These may
show as dark eroded areas in bone or as sclerotic (dense white) areas in the bone if,
as is often the case, they contain calcium. Chest X-rays may show metastases in the
lungs, in lymph nodes in the chest, or even in the ribs. Isotope bone scans are also
valuable in showing evidence of bone metastases (Sect. 7.3.8) (Fig. 16.1).
Blood studies may show anaemia if bone metastases have developed and are
destroying the blood-forming cells in bone marrow. Cancer of the prostate may
also cause an elevation of a serum enzyme, acid phosphatase, and, if bone is
destroyed by metastatic cancer, an enzyme released from the bone called alkaline
phosphatase may also be elevated.
Obstruction by the cancer to the flow of urine may result in infection in the
bladder and possibly in the kidneys. The urine and blood are examined for
evidence of infection in urine or damage to the kidneys.

16.3.3 Screening Tests: The PSA (Prostate-Speciﬁc Antigens) and the DRE
(Digital Rectal Examination)
Nowhere in the
ﬁeld of cancer
treatment is
there more
controversy and
confusion than
is the case with
prostate cancer.

In recent years the PSA blood test has been developed which indicates whether
there is likely to be an abnormality in the prostate. PSA is a special tumour
marker that is now commonly used as a screening test in men over the age of
55 to help fi nd those with early prostate cancer that might be effectively
treated. A raised PSA does not necessarily indicate cancer is present but it may
indicate the need for further investigations, possibly including ultrasound study
and biopsies. However DRE is a very helpful prostate cancer detection test that

16.3 Cancer of the Prostate Gland

237
MALE PELVIS

SHOWING POSITION OF THE PROSTATE GLAND
WITH A CANCER IN ITS POSTERIOR ASPECT

BLADDER

RECTUM

SACRUM
(end of backbone)

PUBIC BONE

COCCYX
(tail bone)

URETHRA
(urine passage)

PENIS

CANCER
ANUS
PROSTATE
SCROTUM

Fig. 16.1. Diagram showing a common site for cancer in the prostate gland

can be easily and safely carried out in a doctor’s rooms. If a prostate is found to
be hard or lumpy then biopsies should be taken to determine whether a cancer is
responsible. A raised PSA must certainly indicate the need for a DRE if a DRE has
not already been carried out. If the PSA is significantly raised and a DRE indicates
a hard or lumpy prostate, the chance of prostate cancer is high.

16.3.4

Controversies in Management of Men with Prostate Cancer

Nowhere in the field of cancer treatment is there more controversy and confusion
than is the case with prostate cancer.
Some bias is inevitable in trying to compare survival statistics in men with
prostate cancer. Elective screening will usually detect this cancer before it becomes
symptomatic. It is therefore inevitable that men with prostate cancer detected before
it is symptomatic will generally live longer than men whose cancer was causing
symptoms before being detected. This is called “lead-time bias”.
Similarly more slowly developing cancers are more likely to be detected at an
earlier phase by routine screening than rapidly growing cancers so giving a bias
so that post treatment survival time will be biased in favour of those detected by
PSA screening. This is called “length-time bias”.
Another inbuilt bias in comparing treatments is known as “selection bias”.
Radical surgery will not proceed if a patient is found to have extensive cancer
whereas radiotherapy is more likely to have been given to a proportion of patients

238

16

16

Cancers of the Male Genital Organs

who already have extensive cancer. Thus these potentials for inbuilt bias make it
difficult to compare management protocols.
However the PSA screening test has led to investigation and diagnosis of
prostate cancer in increasing numbers of middle aged and elderly males. Yet
even if a biopsy diagnosis of cancer is confi rmed it is estimated that only about
one in four or five prostate cancers will grow in a malignant fashion to become
life threatening by spreading to tissues beyond the prostate during the patient’s
otherwise expected lifespan. There is as yet no way of determining those cancers
that are likely to spread. Most prostate cancers are slow growing and even after
some years may show no evidence of spread beyond the prostate, but some will
spread to such places as lungs, liver and especially to bones where they are likely
to form painful metastases and lead to the death of the patient. Appropriate treatment of early cancers will cure most patients but all treatments have serious side
effects and it is not possible at this stage to determine which patients will benefit
from treatment and who might be better left untreated. A PSA found to be rapidly
rising is more likely to be associated with metastasising prostate cancer.
A most common and distressing side effect of treatment is erectile dysfunction causing impotence. This occurs in the majority of patients whether treated
by surgical removal of the whole prostate gland or by radiotherapy. Other side
effects can be prolonged incontinence or occasional stress incontinence, especially after radical surgery, or some damage to the bladder or rectum after
radiotherapy. Irradiation damage to bladder or rectum can leave the man with
long-term urinary scalding or frequency or with precipitous diarrhoea. When
hormones are used to treat metastases, either by giving feminising hormones or
anti-male hormones or by castration or a combination of treatments, loss of libido
and impotence are also usual (see Sect. 8.4.1).
Whether or not to use the PSA or any other attempt at screening for prostate
cancer in asymptomatic men in the age group most at risk remains controversial.
If cancer is detected, especially a small area of “latent” or “in situ” cancer, it
is often impossible to know whether the cancer is likely to cause the man any
significant problem during his otherwise expected lifespan. Thus it is a matter
of controversy as to whether anxieties should be raised about a cancer being
detected that may never cause him any serious trouble. Yet if left undetected or
untreated one in four or five will advance to an incurable stage likely to cause a
painful and miserable death but for some, who opt for treatment (and its inevitable side effects), life expectancy will not have changed.
Whether to treat or not to treat will depend on many factors. These will
include whether there is evidence of progressive disease (e.g. rising PSA or
enlarging cancer or increasing biopsy changes), the family history, the family
circumstances and social circumstances of the patient, the age and general health
of the patient, his otherwise life expectancy, and especially his personal priorities in life. For example. he may not think life would be worth living if he were
impotent or alternatively sexual activity may no longer be of any interest to him
but he has a lot of other interests in life. It should always be explained to these
men that in most cases there is now effective treatment for impotence be it with

16.3 Cancer of the Prostate Gland

prostaglandin penile injections, Viagra or similar medications, a special vacuum
pump device to engorge the penis or other techniques.
One of the greatest needs in medical research is a test to determine whether
low-grade prostate cancer cells detected by biopsy are likely to become aggressive. The pathologist can help in this by indicating the relative aggressiveness and
local invasion of cancer cells in the prostate by estimating a “Gleason score”. The
Gleason score, ranges from 1 to 10; Gleason 1, being very early evidence of local
(in situ) malignant cells, and Gleason 10 indicating highly anaplastic invasive
cancer likely to have spread beyond the prostate.

16.3.5

Treatments

Although at present controversial and uncertain as to whether treatment should
be recommended, the following are standard treatments that should be considered and discussed between a patient and his medical advisers.
For small cancers apparently confi ned to the prostate, total surgical removal
of the prostate gland, possibly with removal of adjacent lymph nodes, should
result in cure. Radical prostatectomy (total removal of the prostate gland and
adjacent lymph nodes) is most-often performed by an open surgical operation
but like several other abdominal operations it can now be performed by a robot
assisted laproscopic technique.
Alternatively, obstruction to the flow of urine may be relieved by a TUR (transurethral resection) in which an instrument (resectoscope) is passed into the urethra
through the penis and some of the enlarged prostate is cut away to relieve obstruction.
Specimens of the resected tissue are sent for microscopic examination to look for the
presence of cancer.
Cancer of the prostate will respond to radiotherapy that is often used to
treat both the primary prostate cancer and a limited number of painful metastatic deposits in bone. In suitable patients local external radiotherapy and/or
brachytherapy with radioactive “seeds” implanted into the prostate and the cancer, can now give results virtually matching results of radical surgery (Sect. 8.3.3).
Although there are still risks of similar side effects, they are less likely than after
radical prostatectomy. More locally advanced cancers are often better treated
by radiotherapy as the field of irradiation can extend beyond the local prostate
region. Sometimes after radical surgery for locally advanced cancer, when there
is doubt as to whether all the cancer-involved tissues were removed, follow-up
radiotherapy is also recommended.
High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU) is a more recently studied treatment
for some cancers not extending outside the prostate gland. From different sources
high-energy ultrasound waves are directed into the prostate tissue by means of a
rectal probe. The whole prostate tissue is destroyed by the heat created, leaving a
small remnant of scarred remnant. Advantages of this treatment are that it can be
repeated and it is less likely to cause troublesome side-effects. However more studies
are needed before the most appropriate use of this treatment will be known.

239

240

16

16

Cancers of the Male Genital Organs

When American doctors, Charles Huggins and Clarence Hodges, discovered that prostate cancers would often respond to stilboestrol, stilboestrol then
became standard treatment for prostate cancer. Most patients had some benefit
with symptom relief and some increased life expectancy but not a cure in the long
term. Stilboestrol is no longer the preferred hormone therapy but other forms of
hormone therapy are now used.
Prostate cancer is androgen (testosterone) dependent; that is, without any
androgen the cancer cells will not grow although eventually some aggressive
prostate cancers will continue to grow in the absence of androgens. Most but not
all androgen in men comes from the testes but the testes can produce testosterone
only if they are stimulated by gonadotrophic hormone. One way of reducing the
growth of prostate cancer therefore is by castration – a treatment not at all popular with most men. Another way of reducing the effects of androgen is to use an
anti-hormone, either an anti-testosterone or an anti-gonadotrophin.
The modern alternatives to stilboestrol, Lutenising Hormone Releasing
Hormone (LH-RH) analogues have long been used in treatment for advanced
prostate cancer when cure by surgery or radiotherapy has not been possible. More
recently anti-androgens have been used but (LH-RH agonists) are now becoming
more commonly used because they are equally effective and less likely to have
troublesome side effects. With stilboestrol and some other agents, some patients
reported feeling nauseated, many developed some enlargement and tenderness
of the breasts and there was an increased risk of deep-vein thrombosis. Desire
for sexual activity was reduced and there may have been complete impotence.
With modern hormone treatments these side effects are still often a problem but
less common and less severe. Eventually aggressive prostate cancers will become
androgen resistant and will grow in the absence of androgens.
There have been few studies of the use of cytotoxic chemotherapy in treatment of prostate cancer. In general, early cancers can be well treated by operation, slightly bigger localised cancers are often well treated by radiotherapy, and
metastatic cancer usually responds well, possibly for some years, to hormone
treatment. Radiotherapy can be given to a limited number of bone secondaries.
Prostate cancers are slowly growing so that palliative chemotherapy, with all its
side effects (more toxic than hormone therapy), is usually not advised, as fi rst
treatment in these older age group men.
Prostate cancer will respond to treatment with some cytotoxic agents but
these are generally used only in patients whose cancer no longer responds to
hormones. Hormones are usually more reliable, more effective and less toxic
than cytotoxic agents in treating prostate cancer. Studies are now being made,
especially in Germany, to determine whether better results can be expected from
using regional cytotoxic chemotherapy before surgery in treating patients with
locally advanced prostate cancers or whether regional chemotherapy used before
radiotherapy might make the operation unnecessary in some patients. In the past
most clinicians found responses to cytotoxic chemotherapy to be disappointing no matter how it was given but an anti-cancer agent called Mitoxantrone
gave encouraging responses, especially with relief of symptoms but no convinc-

16.3 Cancer of the Prostate Gland

ing evidence of improved survival. A newer anti-cancer agent called Docetaxel
(Taxotare) given at 3 weekly intervals is now giving even better symptomatic
relief with some improvement in long-term survival for those men with hormone
refractory prostate cancer.

16.3.6

Treatment of Bone Metastases

If bone scans show “hot spots” of metastatic prostate cancer in bones that are
painless, a decision must be made as to whether or not treatment is needed. For
an elderly man with small painless lesions it may be better not to treat actively
but to keep under observation in case they change. If a large bone metastasis
is seen, especially in a weight-bearing bone that could easily fracture, local
radiotherapy might be advisable.
In most men with bone metastases who are not already having treatment, a
program of hormone treatment is usually recommended.
For men having bone pain that has not been well controlled by standard
treatment with hormones and/or local radiotherapy and/or standard pain-relief
measures, treatment with bisphosphonates or strontium-89 will often give
good pain relief. There is also evidence that these treatments might sometimes
help prevent further bone metastases from developing (Sects. 8.6.2 and 12.11)
(Fig. 16.2).

Fig. 16.2. Widespread
metastatic prostate
carcinoma in bones
of pelvis, vertebrae
and ribs

241

242

16

16

Cancers of the Male Genital Organs

EX ERCISE
Why is there controversy about most appropriate management of men
with prostate cancer?

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

CASE REPORT
Prostate cancer
Karl is a 76-year-old businessman who, at the age of 69, when he had a
routine health check, was found to have a PSA of 6.1 ng/mL. At the time
he had been well and was a keen golfer. With a digito-rectal-examination
(DRE) his doctor felt a slightly enlarged prostate but no other abnormality.
Concerned about the raised PSA, the family doctor arranged a consultation with a specialist urologist.
The urologist did not feel anything abnormal except that as well as
being slightly enlarged the prostate gland was a little harder than normal.
No lumps were felt. The urologist arranged ultrasound studies of the prostate. No lumps were seen but three biopsies were taken from each side of
the prostate gland. The biopsies were all negative for cancer.
One year later the tests were all repeated. The PSA had risen to 8.3 and
ultrasound revealed a small nodular area in the right lobe of the prostate
gland. Biopsy of this showed a small collection of low-grade malignant
cells (Gleason 1) in one of the three right lobe specimens.
The urologist explained to Karl that the few positive cells might represent low-grade “latent” cancer that may or may not progress into a serious
cancer problem during his lifetime. The urologist explained that any surgical or other “curative” procedure would risk complications (especially
erectile dysfunction with impotence and possibly some incontinence) and
may not change his life expectancy. After discussion between Karl and
the urologist it was decided to repeat all tests in 4 months.
(continued)

16.3 Cancer of the Prostate Gland

(continued)
In 4 months the PSA had risen to 9.3 and biopsies showed positive
cancer cells in two specimens with a slightly higher-grade in one specimen (Gleason 4).
Karl was otherwise still fit and well with an otherwise good life expectancy. In view of the apparent progress of the disease, which still appeared to
be contained within the prostate gland and therefore was eminently resectable, Karl and his wife decided that they would accept the option of radical
prostatectomy with all the risks rather than further “wait and see”.
The operation was performed without a major problem and the surgeon
tried to preserve the erectile nerve on the left side. There was no evidence
of lymph-node involvement. Six weeks after discharge Karl’s urinary
function was good, except for occasional stress incontinence, but he was
unable to achieve an erection in spite of his urge to have intercourse.
The options of management of erectile dysfunction were discussed between Karl, his wife, the family doctor and the urologist. For some months
the tablet Viagra was used but not always with reliable success so that penile
injection of prostaglandins has since been used with reliable success.
Karl is now alive and well 6 years postoperatively and plays golf regularly. Since operation his PSA has been less than 0.1. Apart from needing
help to achieve an erection, and occasionally a little stress incontinence of
urine, he has no significant health problem.

Comment
Karl has heard that improvements in radiotherapy and especially
brachytherapy with radioactive implants into the prostate gland, if available, may have been a preferred treatment option with equally good
long-term results and fewer side-effects, especially with erectile dysfunction. The urologist explained that this may be so with presently available
radiotherapy facilities but when he was fi rst treated there was no proof
that his long-term cure would be the same. As more cases of early, limited
prostate cancer have been treated by brachytherapy it does appear that in
suitable patients long-term results can match results of surgery with the
advantage of less fewer side-effects.

243

Cancers of Bladder and Kidneys

17

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Bladder cancer
› Kidney cancers
› Wilm’s tumour (nephroblastoma)
› Adenocarcinoma (Grawitz tumour or hypernephroma)
› Carcinoma of the renal pelvis or ureter

17.1

Bladder Cancer

Many years ago bladder cancer was found to be increased in industrial workers
who were exposed to aniline dyes and certain other chemical compounds. It has
since been found to be more common in smokers and in people who abuse the
use of analgesics. Cancer may also develop in a papilloma, a small benign fernlike or cauliflower-like tumour of the bladder. Some patients have several small
papillomas in the lining of the bladder wall and any one of these can change to
become a cancer if not treated. In some countries, including Egypt and some
other North African countries, infestation with the fluke parasite, Schistosoma
or Bilharzia, is common. If these flukes infest the bladder they can cause inflammation and erosions of the mucosa and penetrate into the bladder wall. In those
countries this is a well-recognised cause of bladder cancer.
Most bladder cancers develop in the transitional cells that line the bladder
cavity. They are about twice as common in males as in females and in both sexes
are more common in developed than developing countries. They most commonly
present in men between 50 and 70 years. The most common symptom of bladder
cancer is blood in the urine (haematuria). The blood may be intermittent at fi rst
but becomes more constant as the tumour grows and invades the bladder wall.
At a later stage there may be discomfort in passing urine (dysuria) and symptoms
of bladder infection (cystitis) such as frequency, burning and pain when passing
urine. Sometimes a ureter may become obstructed by the growth and pain may
be felt in the loin due to backpressure on the kidney.

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_17, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

245

246

17

17

Cancers of Bladder and Kidneys

After losing blood in the urine for some time, anaemia may develop and
symptoms of anaemia (pallor, tiredness, palpitations, etc.) may be noticed.

17.1.1 Investigations
The urine is examined for blood and may also be centrifuged and examined for
cancer cells. Excretory urograms, (IVP X-rays as described in Sect. 7.4) may
show a filling defect or lump in the bladder. They may also show evidence of
obstruction to a ureter if present.
CT scans may reveal a lump in the bladder wall but the ultimate investigation
is with a cystoscope. The cystoscope (described in Sect. 7.4) is passed into the
bladder through the urethra usually under general anaesthesia, and the inside of
the bladder is examined. A section of any suspected cancer together with a small
piece of adjacent bladder wall is taken as a biopsy for microscopic examination.

17.1.2 Types of Bladder Cancer (Pathology)
There are
various degrees
of bladder
tumours
ranging from a
single benign
cauliﬂower-like
papilloma to
an invasive
ulcerated
thickened
cancer.

There are various degrees of bladder tumours ranging from a single benign
cauliflower-like papilloma to an invasive ulcerated thickened cancer. Between
these extremes there may be several papillomata, one or more of which may
show signs of early malignancy, or there may be a malignant lump or malignant
ulcer in the bladder wall. Superficial non-penetrating bladder cancers tend to
remain confi ned to the bladder-wall for a long time before they spread but more
penetrating bladder cancers often metastasise at an early stage. After a time,
bladder cancers may involve the whole thickness of the bladder-wall and even
invade the rectum or other organs nearby. Penetrating cancers often spread to
nearby lymph nodes but they do not commonly metastasise more widely.

17.1.3

Treatment

Small papillomata of the bladder are usually treated by burning them off with
an electro-cautery. The electro-cautery instrument is used through a cystoscope.
The patient is cystoscoped regularly thereafter in case the tumour recurs.
For larger papillomas or early invasive cancers, treatment by radiotherapy
or surgical excision or a combination of both radiotherapy and surgical excision
may offer good prospects of cure.
Early non-invasive bladder cancer will often respond to Bacillus Camille
Guerin (BCG) irrigation. BCG is a harmless bacterium that seems to stimulate
an immune healing response. This treatment is repeated at intervals as necessary
to control the cancer. However if the cancer becomes invasive surgical resection
or radiotherapy will be needed.

17.2 Kidney Cancers

247

For more advanced cancers, surgery to remove the whole of the bladder (cystectomy), may be necessary. A new type of bladder is then usually surgically
constructed from a part of the bowel.
When cure by surgery is impossible, palliative radiotherapy may give relief.
Chemotherapy has a limited place in the treatment of bladder cancer, although
studies are being carried out in the hope of improving prospects of cure or worthwhile palliation with the use of newer agents and newer techniques of giving chemotherapy. Systemic chemotherapy is used with some benefit in treating bladder
cancer if it does become widespread or metastatic.

17.2 Kidney Cancers
Kidney cancers are not common but there are three well recognised types. The
Wilm’s tumour (nephroblastoma) occurs in infants or young children. In adults
kidney cancers are either adenocarcinoma (sometimes called hypernephroma or
Grawitz tumour), or carcinoma of renal pelvis (usually squamous or transitional
cell type).

17.2.1

Wilm’s Tumour (Nephroblastoma)

The Wilm’s tumour usually is found in children of less than 4 years. It can even
be present at birth. Whilst in most cases only one kidney is affected, occasionally
there is a cancer in both kidneys.
This cancer is most commonly found as a lump in the loin of an infant. It may
present by causing the child to be in poor general health with a fever, anaemia,
or sometimes blood is seen in the urine. It may spread to nearby lymph nodes or
into the large veins. From these veins cancer cells may be carried by the blood to
the lungs where metastases may develop.

The Wilm’s
tumour usually
is found in
children of less
than 4 years.
It can even
be present
at birth.

17.2.2 Adenocarcinoma (Hypernephroma or Grawitz Tumour)
This is the most common type of kidney cancer and is usually seen in adults
of middle age or older. It is about twice as common in men than women and is
more common in smokers of either sex. The fi rst symptom is usually passing
blood in the urine, most often painlessly. (Passing blood in the urine with severe
pain in the loin is more likely to be caused by a kidney stone.) There may be
a fever or a lump may be felt in the loin or sometimes there is local pain. This
cancer may spread into nearby lymph nodes but commonly grows into the large
renal vein and may spread by the bloodstream into the lungs, liver or bones.
Occasionally the fi rst evidence of this cancer is the presence of metastases in a
lung or in one or more bones.

The ﬁrst
symptom
is usually
passing blood
in the urine,
most often
painlessly.

248

17

17

17.2.3

Cancers of Bladder and Kidneys

Carcinoma of the Renal Pelvis Or Ureter (Transitional Cell Carcinoma)

This cancer is rather like cancer of the bladder and behaves in a similar way.
The fi rst sign of this cancer is also usually blood in the urine. Smoking and
analgesic abuse are commonly associated with development of these cancers.
They also sometimes develop as a reaction from a stone present in the kidney
for a long time.

17.2.4

Investigations

X-rays of the abdomen may show an enlarged kidney. Excretory urograms
(intra-venous pyelograms or IVP), CT scans, ultrasound, and arteriography
(as described in Sect. 7.3) are all useful investigations to help diagnose a tumour
in a kidney and to help determine whether a kidney lump is solid and likely to
be cancer, or a fluid-filled cyst and probably benign.
Other investigations include examination of the urine for blood or malignant
cells and X-rays of lungs for evidence of metastatic cancer, or bone scans or
X-rays to show evidence of metastases if there are any swelling or painful areas
in bones.

17.2.5

Treatment

Cancer of a kidney is best treated by an operation to remove the kidney (nephrectomy). For Wilm’s tumour (nephroblastoma) in children, results are much better
if radiotherapy and chemotherapy are used in combination with nephrectomy.
For adenocarcinoma nephrectomy is the only likely cure for a patient. Radiotherapy and chemotherapy may be used as palliative treatment in advanced cases
but results other than by complete surgical removal have been disappointing.
Sometimes these cancers will show a temporary response to male or female hormones and some studies have reported responses in patients with metastases
treated with the immunological agents interferon or interleukin 2. Adenocarcinoma of a kidney is one cancer that sometimes spreads to a lung as one single
metastatic lump, resembling a “cannon ball”, and this can sometimes be cured by
an operation removing the part of the lung containing the lump.
For cancer of the renal pelvis, the best results are achieved if the kidney is
removed together with the whole of the ureter and a small part of the bladder
because seedlings of this cancer sometimes grow in the ureter between the
kidney and the bladder.

17.2 Kidney Cancers

249

CASE REPORT
Wilms’ tumour
Andrew is a 4-year-old boy who was brought to the Emergency Room of
the Children’s Hospital after his parents noticed he was passing heavily
blood-stained urine. On examination in the Emergency Room, he looked
well, with normal male genitalia, and no evidence of penile ulceration or
excoriation. A fi rm non-tender mass was palpable below the liver on the
right side of his abdomen. His blood pressure was 140/90. A specimen
of urine was frankly blood-stained.
An abdominal ultrasound revealed a right-sided renal mass consistent
with a right-sided renal tumour. Examination of the inferior vena cava by
ultrasound revealed a patent vessel with no evidence of tumour thrombus
in the cava. CT scan of chest, abdomen and pelvis revealed no evidence of
metastatic disease and no other abnormalities.
A needle biopsy of the renal tumour was performed under general
anaesthesia guided by image intensification in the Medical Imaging
department. Histopathology confirmed a Wilms’ tumour (nephroblastoma),
with the histology being of the usual (“favourable”) type. No evidence of
anaplasia was seen. A central venous catheter was inserted in the operating theatre under a separate general anaesthetic. A low dose of an oral
anti-hypertensive agent was administered for a few weeks after diagnosis
to control the hypertension.
Andrew received 7 weeks of outpatient chemotherapy (using vincristine, and actinomycin-D and doxorubicin). This was associated with intermittent fever, episodes of abdominal discomfort, and constipation, and
mild inflammation of the oral mucous membranes and temporary mild
bone marrow depression following each of two pulses of actinomycin-D
and doxorubicin. The renal mass was noted to be somewhat smaller by
the seventh week.
Eight weeks after diagnosis, Andrew underwent a right radical nephrectomy, from which he recovered uneventfully. Histopathologic examination
of the excised kidney indicated a significant degree of tumour cell destruction
from the initial chemotherapy and no visible spread of the tumour beyond
the renal capsule. He is currently continuing adjuvant chemotherapy (with
vincristine, actinomycin-D and doxorubicin), which will be continued
for 12 months. Blood pressure fell to normal levels immediately after
the nephrectomy.
(continued)

250

17

17

Cancers of Bladder and Kidneys

(continued)
Andrew has an excellent prognosis. The defi nitive surgery is typically
delayed a few weeks after diagnosis to allow shrinkage of the tumour to
occur with the initial induction chemotherapy, to lessen the likelihood of
intraoperative haemorrhage, facilitate early ligation of the renal vein, and
improve the safety of the procedure.
Around 90% of children with localised Wilms’ tumour with the usual
histology will be cured permanently using this combination of induction
chemotherapy, surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy.

Comment
Survival historically with surgery alone was no better than 20%. Radiation therapy to the renal fossa and rear of abdomen is reserved for those
patients where regional spread has occurred at diagnosis, and where localised residual disease is considered likely after nephrectomy. Preservation
of unaffected kidney tissue in the diseased organ may be attempted in
patients whose tumour is confi ned to one or other poles of the affected
kidney.

Cancers of the Brain and Nervous System

18

In this chapter you will learn about:

›

Brain cancers

› Clinical features
› General features
› Focal features
› Investigations
› Treatment
› Secondary cancers in the brain
›

18.1

Nerve cell cancers

Brain Cancers

Although most brain cancers occur in people over the age of 45, with a peak
incidence between 60 and 70 years, in fact the brain is also one of the more
common sites for primary cancer in children and young adults. Brain cancers
are more common in developed than developing countries (see Appendix), but
the reason for this is not known.
There are two groups of cells in the brain that may form tumours. The glial
cells (true brain cells) from which most of the malignant tumours develop, and
the non-glial cells or supporting cells (such as cells of the meninges or cells of the
nerve sheaths) from which develop the majority of benign tumours.
Cancers that arise from true brain cells or glial cells are called gliomas.
There are a number of different types of gliomas ranging from the more slowly
growing types called astrocytoma or oligodendroglioma to more rapidly and
highly malignant types called medulloblastoma (usually in children) or glioblastoma multiforme (more often in adults). These different types of glioma
tend to occur in different parts of the brain in children and adults. They also
have other differences for example medulloblastomas are usually highly radiosensitive and are sometimes cured by radiotherapy but other types are less
radiosensitive (if at all).
There are no known causes of cerebral tumours. The commonly held belief
that electromagnetic fields, (including the use of mobile telephones), may play

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_18, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

251

252

18

18

Cancers of the Brain and Nervous System

a part has not as yet been substantiated with statistical evidence. However the
possibility remains and anecdotal evidence justifies further study.

18.1.1 Clinical Features (Symptoms and Signs)
Brain cancers tend to cause two types of clinical features:
(a) General features due to generalised pressure on the brain
(b) Focal or local features due to pressure or interference by the tumour on
parts of the brain or nerves near the tumour.

18.1.1.1

Fitting alone is
rarely caused
by cancer in
children.

General Features

The common general features of cancer in the brain are due to pressure and
swelling on the brain as a whole. This causes headache, nausea, vomiting and
disturbances of vision due to swelling of the optic nerve at the back of the eye (seen
as papilloedema). The most significant single feature is persistent headache.
Other features may be listlessness, tiredness and mood or personality change.
The sufferer may progressively withdraw from social contacts and gradually
become confused and stuporous and may lapse into coma. In young children the
increased pressure may cause the head to enlarge and hydrocephalus (so-called
“water on the brain”) may develop.
It should be noted that in children, convulsions or fitting are most often caused
by a fever or other less serious problem. Fitting alone is rarely caused by cancer
in children. In an adult, however, with no previous history of epilepsy, injury or
fitting from another known cause, the sudden onset of a fitting attack may be the
fi rst sign of a brain tumour.
18.1.1.2

Focal Features

Focal features are due to interference of function of a local region of the brain.
These features will depend upon the site of the tumour. In one place it may be
interference with speech, in another it may be loss of movement of an arm or leg,
or elsewhere or loss of sensation in a part of the body. Tumours elsewhere might
cause local twitching or focal fitting with different sensations such as olfactory
or visual hallucinations like the flickering of lights. There may be disorders of
balance, or clumsy movement or interference with a cranial nerve such as the
optic nerves for vision, the nerves that move the eyeball or the facial nerves that
move the muscles of the side of the face. In the frontal lobes, the earliest features
might be mood or personality change.

18.1 Brain Cancers

18.1.2 Pathology Types
Astrocytomas can range from relatively low-grade to anaplastic high-grade
cancers called glioblastoma multiforme. Low-grade astrocytomas develop more
slowly with more prolonged symptoms and a longer life-expectancy but the
majority of primary brain cancers, especially in adults, are glioblastoma multiforme with a more rapid onset of headache and other symptoms.
Medulloblastomas are malignant tumours in the cerebellum and are the most
common brain cancers in children causing headaches and problems of balance
and loss of co-ordination, possibly with fitting.

18.1.3

Investigations

CT scans and MRI scans have revolutionised investigations for brain tumours.
Before these scans were invented, cerebral angiography (arteriography after
injecting a radio-opaque iodine compound into one of the internal carotid arteries), radio-isotope scans, and air encephalograms (described in Sect. 7.3) were
used almost routinely together with a number of other investigations such as
the electroencephalogram (EEG), which records brainwave activity. Nowadays,
however, the CT scan or the MRI scan, usually supplies most of the information of other investigations and even more precisely. Angiography may still give
added information particularly concerning the vascularity of a tumour. Surgeons
often use angiograms to plan operations. The surgeons then know exactly where
the tumour is in relation to nearby blood vessels. The angiograms also indicate
which vessels are supplying blood to the tumour.

18.1.4 Treatment
Whilst the majority of benign cerebral tumours, like meningiomas, can be cured
by surgical removal, malignant tumours, other than radiosensitive medulloblastomas, are not often curable. For this reason, it is vital to determine – often at
operation – whether a tumour in the brain is benign or malignant. If malignant,
it is also important to determine the type of malignancy because the outlook
for some is better than others and some, such as medulloblastomas, may be
curable.
Whilst the majority are not curable, most patients with brain cancer can be
given considerable relief of symptoms by a number of means. First, corticosteroids can be used to reduce swelling and so reduce pressure on the brain, which
will relieve headaches and other pressure symptoms. Then surgical operation
can be carried out to remove at least most of the cancer, giving further and more
prolonged relief of symptoms. Following surgery, radiotherapy alone will usually
further improve the immediate outlook but not in the long term.

253

254

18

18

Cancers of the Brain and Nervous System

Recent studies have shown that post-operative chemotherapy with radiotherapy
has given added benefit and some apparent cures have been reported, particularly in the case of medulloblastomas but also in some cases of other cerebral
malignancies.

CASE REPORT
Glioblastoma multiforme
Elsie is a 60-year-old retired teacher who does not smoke and seldom
drinks alcohol. She had enjoyed good health. She is right-handed.
Elsie gave a very short history. About 7 days before consulting her
doctor she had experienced a visual disturbance, which lasted for less
than 2 h. She was reading but could not interpret the words.
For 3 days she had had some unusual visual sensations. On one occasion
she thought she saw something in the peripheral right visual field, like a
street sign, but there was no such sign. In speech there were some errors of
word selection. She knew what she wanted to say but sometimes the wrong
word “came out”. For example on one occasion she told someone that she
had three wolves at home when she was meaning to say three dogs.
On examination there were no abnormalities on visual field testing. The
fundi and optic discs were normal. The lower cranial nerves were intact.
No abnormality was found on neurological examination of the limbs.
A CT scan of the brain demonstrated a spherical lesion 1.5 cm in
diameter in the inferior and medial aspect of the left temporal lobe with
swelling and oedema around it.
The differential diagnosis of such lesions includes a primary brain
tumour or a solitary metastasis. Blood tumour markers were negative for
the most common undiagnosed cancers likely to metastasise to brain in
a woman of her age, breast cancer and bowel cancer (CA 15-3 and CEA
both normal).
A mammogram and breast ultrasound showed no abnormality. A CT
scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis was clear. A PET scan of the brain
was consistent with a high-grade tumour.
Anticonvulsants and corticosteroids were commenced.
A neurosurgical operation was done. The tumour was biopsied, and
frozen sections indicated a high-grade glioma, glioblastoma multiforme,
(a malignant primary brain tumour). Most of the tumour was then removed.
She woke with no new deficits. After recovering from the surgery a course
of radiotherapy was commenced but her outlook must be very guarded.

18.1 Brain Cancers

CASE REPORT
A large benign cerebral tumour (meningioma)
Gur is a 47-year-old successful businessman who had smoked for many
years. He drank little alcohol, and was being treated for hypertension. His
brother had been treated for a cerebral meningioma some years before.
For some months Gur had been aware of cognitive problems, with insidious onset and progression. He misplaced things continuously. This had been
noticed by his family and golf partners. His handwriting had altered greatly.
Normal tasks required great effort. Although very experienced he
dithered and dawdled in running his business, and in organising the purchase
of a new house.
He often woke up at night because of a throbbing pain in the head. He
had lost some weight recently but was not aware of a change in appetite. He
was aware that he had become quite moody. He was left-handed and his wife
would chasten him because of a tendency to carry things around in his left
hand unknowingly. He took the flag out appropriately at one of the holes when
his golf-playing partner was putting, but then continued to carry the flag in his
left hand while attempting to shape up for his next stroke.
On examination he was slow in responding. His writing was shaky and
difficult. When asked to undress for physical examination he undressed in
a very odd fashion. He was holding his wallet in his left hand. He did not
put the wallet down. For the whole period while he took off his shoes and
socks the wallet stayed where it was and he removed his shoes and socks
one-handed with his right hand. Neither arm swung when he walked.
There was an increase in left upper limb tone, the limb appeared stiff but
power was normal. Coordination was slightly less in the left upper limb
but sensory examination was normal. Stance and heel-toe walking was
good. The reflexes were brisker for the left biceps, knee and ankle jerks
and the left plantar response was equivocal.
A CT scan indicated an unusual tumour with a large cystic component.
An urgent MRI scan showed a very significant tumour in the right medial
frontal lobe, abutting the sagittal sinus and probably arising from the falx,
uniformly enhancing with contrast. Around the tumour and cyst there was
some brain oedema.
Dexamethasone (a corticosteroid) was given to relieve the cerebral
pressure and oedema and anticonvulsants were commenced.
At operation a giant meningioma (a usually benign tumour of the
meninges) was diagnosed. Even though it was so large and odd, the histology was benign. The tumour was entirely removed, and his cognitive
functions improved rapidly over the next 3 months.
He is now back to normal and has a good prognosis.

255

256

18

18

Cancers of the Brain and Nervous System

CASE REPORT
Malignantastrocytoma
Mr P is a 59-year-old barrister who at the age of 56 years fi rst noticed
that he was beginning to feel “old and tired”. During a stormy court case
he had occasionally lost the word he was trying to express. He concluded
that he had been working too hard and arranged to take a holiday in a
month’s time.
Unfortunately before his holiday period he began to have headaches
that he felt “all through” his head. Sometimes the headaches were more
pronounced in the left temporal region just above his ear. He took some
proprietary headache tablets with only limited relief. One morning
the right side of his face began to spasm in a most alarming fashion. He was
unable to speak and a few minutes later the spasm moved into his right
shoulder and arm.
Terrified of this symptom (as most people are with their fi rst seizure)
he sat on the edge of his bed until he was able to call his wife who drove
him to the nearest Hospital Emergency Department.
On examination he was found to be a middle-aged man who had a
partial weakness of the right side of his face and right arm and shoulder although he appeared otherwise fit. His tendon reflexes were much
increased on the right side and papilloedema (swelling of the optic nerve)
could be seen when his eye was examined with an ophthalmoscope.
MRI studies showed a moderate sized tumour within the brain in the left
temporo-parietal region.
Mr P was referred to a neurosurgeon who informed him that this was
almost certainly a malignant brain tumour but that he would not recommend surgery because it would not be possible to remove the tumour without damaging the part of his brain controlling speech and movement of the
right side of his body. He advised, and carried out, a needle biopsy of the
tumour to establish its exact nature.
Biopsy showed it to be a high grade malignant astrocytoma.
Mr P was advised that his tumour might respond to combined therapy
using a new agent called temozolomide and radiotherapy. After consultation with a neuro-oncologist and radiotherapist he was treated with this
drug and radiotherapy synchronously.
Over the next 12 months MRI studies showed that the tumour gradually regressed. Three years later, at the age of 59, Mr P has returned to his
practice as previously. He remains well but continues to have 6-monthly
courses of temozolomide and 6 monthly MRI studies.
(continued)

18.2 Secondary Cancers in the Brain

257

(continued)

Comment
In the past results of treatment of aggressive brain cancers, especially in
adults, have been so negative that it is very encouraging to see results of
the combined treatment as given to Mr P. Whilst several similar results
have now been reported it is too early in this clinical study to speculate
what percentage of patients so treated will have similar responses or for
how long such responses will be maintained. This is an example of the
cutting edge of clinical studies in cancer treatment. Such studies are
practiced in all areas of cancer treatment, especially where there is no
established successful alternative.

EX ERCISE
Drawing on case reports in this and other chapters of this book, construct
a case report of a typical patient presenting with and being investigated and
managed for a medulloblastoma.

...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................

18.2

Secondary Cancers in the Brain

The brain is sometimes the site of a metastatic cancer. Cancers of lung, breast
and melanomas are the most common primary cancers that metastasise to brain
but occasionally the brain may harbour secondary cancer from almost any other
primary site or from leukaemia.
Cure by any means is unlikely for metastatic cerebral tumours but considerable, although temporary, relief is often gained by surgical removal, radiotherapy
or even sometimes chemotherapy. A combination of these treatment modalities
is often more effective.

258

18

18

18.3

Nerve Cell Cancers

18.3.1

Neuroblastoma

Cancers of the Brain and Nervous System

Neuroblastoma is a malignancy of primitive nerve cells. After acute lymphoblastic
leukaemia and brain tumours, it is the most common malignancy of childhood, about
10% of childhood cancers. About 80% of cases occur in infants less than 4 years.
Neuroblastomas can occur anywhere in the sympathetic nervous system from
the neck to pelvis and including the adrenal glands.

18.3.2

Presentation

The child is usually failing to thrive, often irritable and may have lost bladder
or bowel control.
There may be an abdominal mass but symptoms and signs will depend upon
which site in the sympathetic nervous system the tumour started and which tissues are involved in tumour invasion (e.g. the neural canals), or metastases (bone,
subcutaneous tissue or liver are common).
Occasionally, especially in infants less than 1 year, the tumour may resolve
spontaneously but treatment usually requires a combination of surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy, sometimes to a degree requiring bone-marrow
transplantation to restore blood-forming tissues. Local tumours are often controlled by treatment but widespread metastases are rarely controlled.

18.4

Retinoblastoma

A retinoblastoma is an uncommon childhood cancer in the eye of infants and
children up to 4 years. In about 25% of patients it is bilateral and in almost half
of the cases there is a genetic factor with a family history of a similar tumour,
and invariably both eyes are enucleated to prevent the development of cancer.
Retinoblastoma is an anaplastic malignancy of the retina. It can spread from
the eye to involve brain and meninges, and cause premature death in infancy.

18.4.1

Presentation

The fi rst sign is often a white reflex through the child’s pupil (leukocoria) noticed
by the parents. a squint may have developed in the eye.
Treatment often involves cryosurgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy (both
induction and adjuvant chemotherapy), with or without enucleation of the eye.
If diagnosed early (before local spread or metastases) a high incidence of cure
is achieved. Neurosarcomas are discussed in Chap. 20.1.5

TheLeukaemias and Lymphomas

19

In this chapter you will learn about:

› The leukaemias
› The acute leukaemias
› Chronic lymphocytic (lymphatic) leukaemia
› Chronic myeloid (granulocytic) leukaemia
› The lymphomas
› Hodgkin lymphoma (previously called Hodgkin disease)
› Non-Hodgkin lymphomas
› Multiple myeloma

19.1

The Leukaemias

Leukaemia is a cancer of blood-forming cells. Leukaemias are classified into
two broad groups according to the type of blood-forming cell that has become
malignant. These are called lymphatic leukaemia and myeloid (or non-lymphatic)
leukaemia.
In lymphatic leukaemia the cells that have become malignant are the bone
marrow cells that normally make lymphocytes. Lymph nodes and lymphoid tissue
are usually involved and some nodes become enlarged. In myeloid leukaemia the
cells that have become malignant are cells in the bone marrow that normally make
the other types of white blood cells (that is myeloid cells that make polymorphs
and other white cell types). The spleen usually becomes involved and enlarged.
Leukaemias may be acute or chronic according to whether the disease would
tend to run a rapid and rapidly fatal course (acute leukaemia) or whether the
disease would progress more slowly (chronic leukaemia).
Thus there are four main types of leukaemia:
• Acute lymphocytic (lymphatic) leukaemia (ALL)
• Acute myeloid (non-lymphatic or granulocytic) leukaemia (AML or ANLL.)

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_19, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

259

260

19

19

The Leukaemias and Lymphomas

• Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)
• Chronic myeloid (non-lymphocytic or granulocytic) leukaemia (CML or
CNLL or CGL)
It is important to distinguish between the major types of leukaemia because they
tend to run different courses and respond differently to different treatments.

19.1.1 Incidence and Prevalence of Leukaemias

Acute leukaemia
accounts for about
half of all cancers
in children

Leukaemias occur throughout the world but the incidence varies in different
countries and in different races. All types of leukaemia are slightly more
common in males. The Scandinavian countries and Israel have the highest
incidence and the lowest reported incidence is in Chile and Japan but in general
they are more common in developed countries (see Appendix). In the USA the
highest incidence is in Jews and the lowest is in African Americans.
The overall incidence of ALL and AML is about equal but there is a distinct
age difference. Acute leukaemia accounts for about half of all cancers in children
and acute lymphocytic leukaemia is the most common of all cancers in young
children, with a peak incidence of between 2 and 4 years. The incidence of AML
is low in children but increases with age.
The causes of leukaemia are unknown although some predisposing factors
are recognised. Leukaemias, especially myeloid leukaemias, have been linked
with ionising radiation. There is also evidence that exposure of a foetus to X-rays
during its mother’s pregnancy is associated with a slightly increased risk of
leukaemia developing later in childhood. However, there is no evidence that
normal use of diagnostic X-rays in adults is associated with leukaemia. Myelofibrosis (myeloplastic disease) is a disorder of bone marrow cell proliferation that
sometimes presents in adults as anaemia of no obvious cause and commonly
degenerates into an acute leukaemia.
Excessive exposure to some chemical agents such as benzene is associated
with a slightly increased risk of leukaemia. AML will occasionally develop in
patients who have had some other form of cancer including Hodgkin lymphoma,
or cancer of the ovary, that has been treated with chemotherapy.
Use of anti-cancer cytotoxic drugs for other cancers, and especially their
pronged use with radiotherapy, also slightly increases the risk of later development of leukaemia.
Familial leukaemia is rare although some families with multiple cases of
leukaemia have been reported. In general, siblings of a child with leukaemia have
only a slightly higher risk of developing leukaemia although if one identical twin
develops acute leukaemia the other twin has about a 20% chance of developing
the disease.
People with Down’s Syndrome have a twenty times greater risk of developing
acute leukaemia than other people. Women who become mothers at an advanced

19.2 The Acute Leukaemias

age not only have an increased risk of producing children with Down’s syndrome
but otherwise normal children born of older age group mothers have a slightly
greater risk of developing acute leukaemia.
Genetic mutations and complex gene rearrangements are of basic importance
in the pathogenesis of leukaemias and lymphomas. There is presently a great
deal of study of these chromosome changes. Studies indicate that the chromosomal and genetic changes not only show different patterns in different forms of
leukaemias but genetic patterns may also indicate likely responses to different
treatments and an indication of likely progress.
There were increased numbers of people with leukaemias after the atomic
bomb explosions at Hiroshima and Nagasaki and after the Chernobyl atomic
energy plant disaster in Russia, CML was the most prevalent.
Viruses are known to cause leukaemia in some animal species but only one
type of leukaemia in humans has been linked to a virus. Adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma, prevalent in the Carribbean, Japan and New Guinea, is probably
caused by a Human virus designated “T-cell leukaemia virus” (HTLV-1). The
Epstein-Barr virus has been implicated in Burkitt’s Lymphoma/leukaemia.

19.2

The Acute Leukaemias

19.2.1 Clinical Presentation
19.2.1.1

Acute Lymphatic (Lymphoblastic) Leukaemia (ALL)

This is the most common form of leukaemia in children with an age peak of
about 5 years. Symptoms are caused by replacement of normal blood-forming
cells of bone marrow by malignant leukaemic cells and infiltration (invasion) of
other tissues such as spleen, lymph nodes, tonsils and sometimes liver, kidneys,
lungs and brain.
Fever, weakness, anorexia (loss of appetite), pallor, and infection are common. Infection is especially common in the region of the tonsils or anus and the
lungs may also become infected causing pneumonia. There may be pain in bones
or joints.
Lymph nodes, tonsils and spleen are commonly enlarged. Sometimes the liver
and kidneys are enlarged.
Platelets may be deficient and there may be petechial spots or bruising or signs
of bleeding from any site especially from the gums, the digestive tract or anus.
Bleeding in the brain or from the lungs may also occur. Thrombosis (clots) may
also develop in veins.
Meningitis due to leukaemic cell spread into the meninges frequently occurs
in patients with ALL unless prevented by radiotherapy or chemotherapy.

261

262

19 The Leukaemias and Lymphomas

19.2.1.2

19

Acute Myeloid Leukaemia

AML more commonly affects adults. Anaemia, bleeding or bruising and infection are the likely presenting features. But as with ALL, general ill health with
fever, lassitude, loss of appetite and involvement of other tissues or organs with
septicaemic infection is likely.

19.2.2 Investigations
The diagnosis of leukaemia can be made only after careful examination of blood
and bone marrow. Blood is taken by a needle from a vein in the arm and bone
marrow is usually taken with a small instrument that is used to puncture a bone
of the pelvis (the iliac crest). Bone puncture is painful so it is done under local
or even general anaesthesia. A pathologist then examines the blood and bone
marrow for leukaemic cells and for other features of leukaemia. These may
include anaemia (with a reduction in numbers of red blood cells), reduction in
number of normal white blood cells, and reduction in the number of platelets.
About one third of patients with acute leukaemia will have an elevated white
blood count, one third will have a low white blood count and in one third the
white cell count is about normal.
Patients with AML are usually found to have abnormalities of chromosomes.
There may also be changes in blood chemistry, including increased uric acid, that
may be associated with features of gout.
Cytogenetic studies on bone marrow are now part of a full investigation of
leukaemia patients. These studies identify specific molecular genetic syndromes
and help in selecting the best therapy. They also give a good indication of the
likely prognosis.

19.2.3 Treatment
Encouraging
progress has
been made in
recent years in the
treatment of the
acute leukaemias.

Encouraging progress has been made in recent years in the treatment of the
acute leukaemias.
The best opportunity to achieve the maximum cure of leukaemia is when the
disease is first diagnosed. Cells that remain after the first treatment tend to develop
resistance to drugs. It is therefore important that patients with acute leukaemia
should immediately be referred to a readily available specialist clinic so that the
most effective treatment can be given under expert supervision without delay.
Chemotherapy using cytotoxic drugs and cortisone forms the basis of
modern treatment. Combinations of effective cytotoxic drugs have produced
best results.

19.2 The Acute Leukaemias

With the best current treatment methods, more than 90% of children and about
80% of adults with ALL now achieve complete remission (that is, the disease
apparently disappears and the patient feels and looks well again).
Because after a time most ALL patients will develop the disease in the meninges,
the lining around the brain, and because anti-cancer drugs do not pass in high
concentration into the nervous system, injections of cytotoxic drugs are given
into the meningeal space around the brain and the brain is also treated by radiotherapy. In the case of AML, nervous system involvement does not occur so often
but this treatment is also given immediately there is any sign that there may be
brain or central nervous system involvement.
With AML, good results of chemotherapy have not been as reliable as with
ALL. Recently, in attempts to further improve results, bone marrow transplantation has been used effectively, especially in younger people (aged under 50).
In marrow transplantation the leukaemic cells are destroyed by big doses of
chemotherapy and radiotherapy (total body irradiation). This is a dangerous
procedure and is carried out only in highly expert units within specialised hospitals. The patient is then given an infusion of bone marrow taken from a matched
donor (that is, a donor with similar body cells unlikely to cause a rejection reaction). The best donor is often a sibling or other family member. Bone marrow
transplantation involves a number of risks and should therefore be carried out
only by appropriately trained experts, in specially equipped hospitals. Results
have been most encouraging in this otherwise fatal illness. An alternative
source of haemopoietic stem cells for transplantation is to use peripheral blood
stem cells or umbilical cord stem cells Blood stem cells are collected from the
blood after stimulation by colony stimulating factors (like G-CSF). Although
controversial from an ethical and moral point of view embryonal stem cells may
have the ability to respond in the bone marrow in a similar way to bone marrow
derived cells.
In recent years, treatment with immunotherapy has been further investigated.
Although major success has not as yet been achieved there have been interesting
results that give hope for better treatments in the future.
Transplantation of matched unrelated bone marrow (bone marrow from a
matched donor person not related to the patient) is used to elicit graft vs. leukaemia
effect. The immunological effect of the graft might be as important or even more
important than chemotherapy. In recent years mini-allogeneic transplants have
been used (allogeneic stem cells are used without myelo-ablative chemotherapy).
Studies are proceeding to determine whether such interventions might be safer
and equally effective.
During the acute illness there may be special problems of anaemia, lowered
resistance to infection, bleeding or even clotting. These may require blood transfusion or platelet transfusion and antibiotics or other treatment for infection.
Aspirin should be strictly avoided because it interferes with blood clotting.

263

264

19

19

The Leukaemias and Lymphomas

C AS E R E P O R T
Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia
Elizabeth is a 5-year-old girl whose mother took her to their family doctor
with a 4-week history of increasing lethargy, loss of appetite, pallor, and
low grade intermittent fevers. The doctor noted that Elizabeth was pale,
had a pulse rate of 140 per minute with a systolic flow heart murmur. She
had scattered petechiae (little red spots) on the lower limbs, and a moderately enlarged but non-tender liver. Blood count revealed low haemoglobin
(56 g/L), a raised white cell count (9 × 109/L), differential predominately
blasts cells, and a low platelet count (15 × 109/L).
Elizabeth was admitted immediately to the Children’s Hospital, where
compatible platelets and packed red blood cells were administered to
correct the thrombocytopenia and anaemia. Under general anaesthesia, a
bone marrow aspirate was performed, confi rming the diagnosis of ALL.
A lumbar puncture contained no white cells (suggesting that cerebral involvement was unlikely). An indwelling central venous catheter was inserted.
Elizabeth commenced chemotherapy treatment (a national childhood
ALL protocol, was used. This is an international program based on a very
effective German protocol) in which a steroid (prednisolone) is given fi rst.
Her peripheral blast, white cell, count fell (to less than 0.1 × 109/L) after the
first week of oral prednisolone. She continued induction therapy (receiving
intra-venous vincristine, daunorubicin, and asparaginase), in addition to
the oral prednisolone. A repeat bone marrow aspirate at the completion
of the first 5 weeks of therapy indicated haematologic remission with no
detectable blast cells (primitive white cells). Chemotherapy continued
on an outpatient basis, followed by four doses of high-dose methotrexate
intravenously over 8 weeks, and a fi nal extended phase (using mercaptopurine daily and methotrexate weekly) for a total of 2 years of therapy.
Minimum residual disease (MRD) assays performed on marrow obtained
at the completion of both the fi rst (induction) phase and completion of the
second (consolidation) phase were both negative for disease.

Comment
Elizabeth has as good an outlook as is possible to have for childhood
ALL. Her gender, age at diagnosis, and peripheral white cell count at
diagnosis are all long-recognised indicators of a favourable prognosis. The
favourable response to prednisolone as a single agent is a highly reliable
indicator of responsiveness established by German studies in the late
1980s as a key determinant of required intensity of therapy. The negative
MRD assays at day 33 and day 72 are, in 2005, the most advanced and
sensitive indicators of an optimal response to therapy. Elizabeth has a
better than 90% chance of being cured.

19.3 Chronic Lymphocytic (Lymphatic ) Leukaemia

19.3

Chronic Lymphocytic (Lymphatic) Leukaemia

CLL tends to occur in older people with an average age of about 60 years and is
usually a very slowly progressive disease. In this disease there is an overproduction of mature and relatively normal looking lymphocytes resulting in increased
numbers of lymphocytes in the blood.

19.3.1 Clinical Presentation
The most obvious feature is lymph-node enlargement. Enlarged lymph nodes
may be felt as lumps in the sides of the neck, in the axillae or groins. Enlarged
lymph nodes in the abdomen are more difficult to feel but enlarged lymph nodes
in the chest may be detected in a chest X-ray. The spleen and sometimes the liver
may also be enlarged. The normal bone marrow may be replaced by malignant
lymphocytes and the patient may become anaemic and deficient in platelets. This
may lead to bleeding and clotting problems. Due to the replacement of normal
white cells by abnormal white cells the patient has decreased ability to combat
infection and may also have immunologic abnormalities.

19.3.2

Investigations

Blood count, bone marrow biopsy and tests of immune function will establish
the diagnosis.

19.3.3 Treatment
CLL may be present for years without causing troublesome symptoms. Many
patients may not need treatment for months or years. The median age is about 60
years and there is an increased family incidence. There is no evidence that chronic
lymphatic leukaemia can be cured by early treatment, so treatment is usually
reserved for episodes of the disease that are causing the patient to feel ill or causing
other problems. Eventually fatigue, malaise, weight loss, bleeding and symptoms
of anaemia will develop. In its early stages treatment of symptoms only may be all
that is needed but eventually more aggressive treatment may be necessary.
Treatment should be initiated for CLL only when anaemia, thrombocytopenia
or other disease-related symptoms appear.
Large and conspicuous lymph nodes and a large spleen can be reduced by
radiotherapy. If the patient’s general health is poor, treatment with anti-cancer
cytotoxic drugs, often with cortisone, will usually cause reduction of enlarged
lymph nodes and spleen, improve the bone marrow and make the patient feel better.
Two cytotoxic anti-cancer drugs are commonly used – these are chlorambucil
and cyclophosphamide. Both are given by mouth. More recently the development of

265

266

19

19

The Leukaemias and Lymphomas

new purine analogues (fl udarabine phosphatee or Fludara, 2CdA and Pentostatin) is rapidly changing the treatment of this disease. Many experts advise
that fludarabine phosphate should now be the initial treatment of choice. There
is also interest in the development of monoclonal antibodies to CD20 and CD52
(Rituxan and Campath-1H respectively). These agents are now undergoing trials
in association with cytotoxic chemotherapy. Rapid changes and advanced trials
are proceeding into treatments of these leukaemias.
Unlike CML, CLL only very rarely changes into an acute type of leukaemia but
in about 10% of cases it will change into a high-grade B-cell lymphoma-like disease
as described in the following pages. This is known as Richter’s transformation.

19.4

Chronic Myeloid Leukaemia (CML)

CML can occur at any age but the median age of people affected is about 50
years. Males are affected more often than females. There is an association with
a specific chromosomal abnormality called the “Philadelphia” chromosome,
which produces an enzyme called tyrosine kinase that is involved in the cellular
changes of CML. Although there is no known specific cause in most cases, it
was found that in Japan there was an increase in both acute and CML 5–8 years
after the atomic bomb explosions.
In CML there is a marked increase in the number of white cells in the blood.
This is associated with a big increase in the number of cells in bone marrow.
There may also be a considerable increase in the numbers of blood platelets. Bone
marrow occupation by non red-cell precursors leads to gradual but progressive
anaemia.

19.4.1 Clinical Presentation
One of the more common symptoms is a pain in the left upper abdomen due to
an enlarged spleen. Usually the spleen is felt easily in patients with this disease
(a normal spleen cannot be felt with examining fi ngers). There may also be
features of anaemia, tiredness, weight loss or fever. Sometimes, abnormal bruising,
bleeding or clotting problems may be the fi rst evidence of the disease.

19.4.2

Investigations

Blood count and bone marrow biopsy will usually establish the diagnosis. As
for the other forms of leukaemia and the lymphomas, genetic arrangements
and genetic mutations are not only associated with CML but may indicate

19.4 Chronic Myeloid Leukaemia (CML)

267

likely patterns of progress of the disease, most appropriate treatments and
likely outcomes.

19.4.3 Treatment
There are two phases of CML. The chronic phase is the least dangerous and
with modern treatment may last for many months or years before the dangerous
acute phase takes over.
During the chronic phase, the disease can usually be kept under good control
with cytotoxic chemotherapy. The drug most commonly used with good effect
has been hydroxyurea, although other drugs are now found to give equally good
or possibly better disease control. With these treatments the blood count may
return to normal and the spleen may be reduced considerably in size.
The immunological agent “interferon” is proving to be effective in producing
remission but because in most cases it does not eliminate the “Philadelphia chromosome”, it is unlikely to cure the disease. Interferon alpha with hydroxyurea
significantly prolong survival (by about 20 months) of patients with chronic-phase
CML compared to previously standard treatment with busulfan. For patients who
do not tolerate interferon, hydroxyurea alone has also been shown to give better
results than busulfan.
For younger patients in good health, allogenic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) appears to be a preferred option. Bone marrow transplantation is
more likely to be successful in the chronic phase than in the acute phase. If the
spleen remains large and causes pain or other problems due to its large size and
over-activity it may sometimes be necessary to have the spleen removed by a
surgeon.
Sooner or later, a more acute and more dangerous episode of this disease will
develop resembling acute leukaemia. This phase of the disease is more difficult
to control. Sometimes other cytotoxic chemotherapy with cortisone might give
control for a period. Studies are also being made to control this acute phase of the
disease with intensive radiotherapy and bone marrow transplantation. Although
a number of problems still need to be overcome, results have been encouraging
especially in younger people.
The most exciting new addition to the treatment of CML is the tyrosine-kinase
inhibitor STI 571 (Glivec or Gleevec) which is a newly discovered agent. STI 571
inhibits intracellular tyrosine kinase. Tyrosine kinase is targeted because it is a
growth promoting enzyme involved in the cellular changes of CML.
Recent studies have shown a remarkable high response rate. STI 571 counteracts tyrosine kinase. Further studies are needed but responses to date appear
to be dramatic. In a third of cases there is a complete cytogenic remission with
apparent elimination of the Philadelphia chromosome. Studies are now being
conducted on the possible potential of tyrosine kinase inhibitors being effective
in treating other cancers.

The most
exciting new
addition to
the treatment
of CML is the
tyrosine-kinase
inhibitor STI
571 (Glivec
or Gleevec).

268

19

19

The Leukaemias and Lymphomas

EX ERCISE
Consider why recent results of treatment of CML has caused such intense
interest in possible new treatments of other cancers.

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

19.4.4

Hairy Cell Leukaemia

This uncommon form of chronic leukaemia is so named because of the unusual
features of its cells, which appear to have fi ne hair-like projections from the
surface. It is of special interest because it is a leukaemia that usually responds
well to immunological treatment with interferon (see Sect. 8.4.2). Treatment with
interferon and purine analogues (2CdA and Pentostatin), has been very effective.
Previous treatment by splenectomy as first-line treatment is no longer indicated.

C AS E R E P O R T
Acute myeloid leukaemia
Brett is a 34-year-old swimming instructor at a private school. He had
noticed that over the last few weeks his energy levels were not as good
as usual and in the last week a few little “blood spots” had appeared
on his lower legs round the ankles. He hadn’t taken much notice of this
until he had a bad nose-bleed which he could not stop, so he went to the
Emergency Department of his local hospital clutching a handkerchief
around his bleeding nose.
The Emergency doctor noticed that he was pale and that he had the
blood spots about his ankles. After he had packed his nose the doctor
ordered some blood tests.
Within an hour the laboratory had phoned to say that the blood test was
very abnormal and that Brett was very anaemic with a haemoglobin level
of 60 g/L, a low platelet count, and a very high white cell count.
(continued)

19.4 Chronic Myeloid Leukaemia (CML)

269

(continued)
It became clear that Brett had had a serious bleeding episode and that
this was probably caused by the low platelet count. Brett was admitted to
the hospital for a blood and platelet transfusion, and a specialist haematologist was consulted. The specialist advised Brett of the abnormal blood
result and recommended a bone marrow biopsy. (The bone marrow acts
like a factory for blood cell production.)
The bone marrow test confi rmed a diagnosis of AML. This was based
on the appearance of the leukaemic cells in the bone marrow but also on
some special tests that determine the genetic make-up of the cells and
what chemicals are present on their surface.
Naturally Brett was very upset to hear the diagnosis as was his wife
and family of two young children. After the transfusions the bleeding
stopped and Brett felt much better. The haematologist explained that he
would require anti-leukaemia treatment with powerful cytotoxic drugs
and that this would mean hospitalization for probably 4–6 weeks. While
the leukaemia drugs are usually given for about 7 days the drugs are very
powerful and cause the blood counts to become very low so that blood and
platelet transfusions are very commonly needed during and after the treatment until the bone marrow and blood recovers. In addition intravenous
antibiotics may be needed to protect against infection.
After storing some sperm samples in case his fertility was affected,
Brett agreed to start treatment and appears to be doing well after the first
2 weeks. Although it is still early days, plans are underway to test his two
brothers to see if they could donate stem cells for a stem cell transplant
after the initial chemotherapy. This determination can be done by simple
blood tests.

CASE REPORT
Chronic myeloid leukaemia
Richard is a 48-year-old publisher with an English publishing group. He
has enjoyed good health except for a soccer related knee injury when he
was 17.
He presented to his general practitioner with left upper quadrant
abdominal pain and a feeling of early satiety after eating meals. He looked
reasonably well but on examination his GP had found an enlarged spleen,
8 cm below the left costal margin. The spleen was not tender to palpation
and the liver edge was not palpable.
(continued)

270

19

19

The Leukaemias and Lymphomas

(continued)
His GP arranged for some routine blood tests and was telephoned
later that day by the local pathologist to indicate that the white cell count
was grossly elevated at 112 × 109/L. The haemoglobin level was slightly
reduced at 127 g/L and the platelet count was slightly elevated at
521 × 109/L.
Richard was referred to a haematologist who, other than the splenomegaly, found little else of note. Review of the blood film confi rmed the
grossly elevated white cell count, which showed a spectrum of myeloid
cells, ranging from a few myeloblasts through promyelocytes, myelocytes,
metamyelocytes and mature neutrophils.
A bone marrow examination was arranged and showed a hypercellular
marrow with active proliferation of myeloid cells. A cytogenetic (chromosome) analysis of these bone marrow cells revealed the presence of the
Philadelphia chromosome in 100% of the cells examined, confirming the
diagnosis of CML.
[The Philadelphia chromosome is a small chromosome derived by the
reciprocal translocation of genetic material (DNA) between chromosomes
9 and 22 leading to the juxtaposition of DNA and the creation of a socalled new “fusion gene” that can lead to the production of new protein. In
this particular case the new protein, which has tyrosine kinase activity, is
called BCR-ABL protein because of its origins from the genetic material
on chromosome 22 (bcr) and chromosome 9 (abl).]
In Richard’s case, a sample of his blood and bone marrow cells were
sent to a specialized laboratory to analyse the cells for the presence and
quantification of the bcr-abl gene transcripts, by the polymerase chain
reaction (PCR), to allow for future disease monitoring.
The nature of the disease was explained to Richard and he was commenced on a new oral drug Imatinib, (400 mg/day), a specific tyrosine
kinase inhibitor which has specificity for the bcr-abl gene transcripts.
Imatinib is also known by its proprietary names Gleevec or Glivec.
Richard’s blood counts quickly reverted to normal within 2 months,
his spleen became impalpable and at 6 months from starting Imatinib, the
Philadelphia chromosome had disappeared from his blood and marrow,
although the bcr-abl gene transcripts could still be detected by PCR.

Comment
Although, at the time of writing, this drug, imatinib, has only been available for treating CML for a few years there is good reason to believe that
it will herald a new era in the treatment of this disease and it also has
potential in treating other cancers, especially gastro-intestinal stromal
cancers.

19.5 The Lymphomas

19.5

271

The Lymphomas

The lymphomas are a group of cancers of the body tissues that constitute the
body defence system known as the reticuloendothelial (immune system). The
majority of lymphomas arise from lymph nodes but they may arise from B and
T cells in extra nodal sites such as in lymphoid tissue elsewhere for example the
tonsils, spleen, stomach or bowel lining, liver, lung, kidneys or skin.
There are two main types of lymphoma called Hodgkin lymphoma (or
Hodgkin disease, HD) and the so-called Non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL).
NHLs are the more common. They tend to affect a rather older age group than
Hodgkin lymphoma. Both types are more common in developed countries
(see Appendix).
About 15% of cases of lymphoma are Hodgkin lymphoma, which predominantly originates in lymph nodes. NHLs are predominantly of the “B” cell type.
“B” cells are especially concerned with humoral immunity i.e. the circulating
immune system, including manufacture of immune antibodies.
The NHLs may also develop in lymph nodes but they develop almost as commonly in lymphoid tissue in other organs.
Lymphoma is predominantly a disease of adults and other than common skin
cancers in the US it is the fifth most common cancer in men (after prostate, lung,
colo-rectal, and bladder). In women other than skin cancers, it is also the fifth
most common (after breast, lung, colo-rectal and uterus). The average age is
about 32 years for Hodgkin lymphoma and somewhat older, about 42 years, for
NHL.

19.5.1 Causes of Lymphoma
The causes of most lymphomas are not known. Viruses are known to cause
lymphomas in some animals but, with one exception, have not been found to be
a significant factor in lymphoma in humans. A lymphoma called Burkitt’s lymphoma which is uncommon in most countries but is more common in children in
tropical Africa and New Guinea, has been found to be associated with infection
by the Epstein-Barr virus. This same virus causes glandular fever and in Western
societies people who have had glandular fever have a slightly increased risk of
developing a lymphoma later in life. On the other hand, doctors and nurses who
specialise in caring for people with lymphoma have not been found to have any
increased risk of developing the disease.
It is well recognised that people with a deficiency of their immune systems, do
have an increased risk of developing a lymphoma. This is especially seen in AIDS
patients but also in people who have had an organ transplant and are given drugs
to suppress the rejection of the transplanted organ. In Western countries between
3 and 4% of patients with AIDS develop lymphomas. This represents more than

The lymphomas
are a group of
cancers of the
body tissues
that constitute
the body
defence system
known as the
reticuloendothelial
(immune
system).

272

19

19

The Leukaemias and Lymphomas

100 times the incidence in the general population. It is uncertain whether this is a
direct effect of the HIV virus or a general deregulation of the immune system.
There is also a slightly increased tendency to develop lymphomas in some
families but this may be due to an hereditary tendency towards immune deficiency in these families or possibly there is an, as yet unknown, environmental
factor.

19.6

Hodgkin Lymphoma

19.6.1

Presentation

Hodgkin lymphoma is more common in upper socio-economic groups and especially in males (about 2:1 ratio males/females). The most common presentation,
especially in young people, is of enlarged lymph nodes usually in one side of
the neck. The nodes are rubbery and movable and usually feel distinctly different to the hard, enlarged nodes that may result from metastatic spread from
other cancers.
Sometimes, other symptoms are a general feeling of ill health, lassitude, fever,
weight loss and/or night sweats. An unusual feature sometimes complained of, is
pain in swollen lymph nodes after drinking alcohol.
The disease usually progresses from the site of origin (most commonly the
lymph nodes in the neck) to other lymph nodes nearby – then to lymph nodes in
the chest or abdomen – to the spleen – and eventually to the liver and bone narrow. The earlier the disease is detected before it has spread widely, the greater the
likelihood of cure by modern treatment (Fig. 19.1).

19.6.2

Investigations

In order to decide what is the best treatment it is important to fi nd out as accurately as possible exactly which lymph nodes and organs are involved. A thorough
examination of the patient is needed including all lymph node areas, spleen, liver
and chest. X-rays are taken of the lungs, especially, to look for enlarged lymph
nodes between the lungs (mediastintal lymph nodes).
To establish a diagnosis the most obvious and easily removed lymph node is
removed surgically and to have it examined microscopically. In fact any lymph
node of diameter greater than 1 or 1.5 cm that remains enlarged for more than
about a month without an obvious cause, may need to be removed and examined
in case it is an early indication of a serious disease like Hodgkin disease. The
pathology microscopic hallmark of Hodgkin disease is a large multinucleated
cell, called the Dorothy Reed-Sternberg cell.
If a positive diagnosis of Hodgkin disease is established, a number of other
tests should be done, including a blood count, because anaemia may develop.

19.6 Hodgkin Lymphoma

273
Fig. 19.1. Photograph of a 20-year-old man
with enlarged rubbery lymph nodes in
his neck. This was his fi rst evidence of
a Hodgkin lymphoma

Other features of Hodgkin disease may also be found in immuno-histochemical
studies. CT scans and ultrasound help in discovering if there are any enlarged
abdominal lymph nodes as well as any enlargement of the liver or spleen.
Gallium isotope scans (see Sect. 7.3.8) may now be used to show abnormal or
enlarged lymph nodes.
A liver biopsy and bone narrow biopsy may indicate spread of the disease
to these tissues. Likewise, studies of kidney function or a kidney biopsy may
indicate involvement of the kidneys.

19.6.3

Staging and the Staging Laparotomy

Some patients who had Hodgkin lymphoma a few years ago (then called Hodgkin
disease) will remember that an operation was done by a surgeon to fi nd out what
organs and tissues in the abdomen were involved. This operation is rarely needed
nowadays because of the accuracy of CT scans, ultrasound, isotope scans, gallium scans and by lymphoscintigram studies. These may even be replaced one
day by PET scans which have shown promising results in studies but are very
expensive and are not available in most places. In any case, it is still uncertain
whether PET scans will add anything to the combined information from the
other tests.

274

19

19

19.6.4

The Leukaemias and Lymphomas

Treatment

Treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma is either by radiotherapy or chemotherapy or
both. In experienced hands well-delivered treatment can now improve greatly
the outlook for this once lethal illness. It is now possible to cure most patients,
especially those who do not have extensive disease.
In general, limited areas of disease are best treated by radiotherapy (a modern
linear accelerator is the most appropriate equipment) but the exact doses, techniques of delivery and fields of irradiation must be expertly arranged.
For widespread disease (in which tissue other than lymph nodes and spleen
are involved), treatment is usually with chemotherapy, using appropriate combinations of cytotoxic drugs. Present-day lymphoma specialists are now able to
achieve very good results and keep toxic side effects (see Sect. 8.3.4) to a minimum. For advanced cases chemotherapy and radiotherapy may both be required
in an integrated treatment program.

CASE REPORT
Hodgkinlymphoma
Julie is a 22-year-old law student coming up to her fi nal exams. She was
under a lot of stress and studying hard. She was often up late at night
and was also having difficulty sleeping. Like a lot of girls in this situation she was probably not eating regular meals and noticed that she was
losing weight. She had woken up a couple of times in the last week with
bad sweats and on the last occasion she had been drenched with sweat, so
much so that she had to change her pyjamas. She also noticed a swelling
in the area above her left clavicle although there had been no pain, but she
was persuaded by her flatmate to go to her local family doctor.
The doctor saw Julie and confi rmed that there was a swelling above her
left clavicle but could not fi nd any other abnormal fi ndings. She arranged
for some blood tests and a chest X-ray. When the results came back she
arranged for Julie to attend for follow up consultation.
The blood tests showed that Julie was mildly anaemic with a haemoglobin level of 98 g/L, and her kidneys and liver function tests were normal.
Her chest X-ray showed a mass of lymph nodes between her lungs. After
discussing the results, Julie was referred to a surgeon who arranged a
biopsy of the mass above the clavicle. Within 2 days the result confi rmed
that the biopsy had shown Hodgkin lymphoma.
(continued)

19.7 Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas

275

(continued)
The surgeon explained that this was a type of cancer of the lymph
nodes and referred Julie to a specialist as, with appropriate treatment, this
type of cancer can often be cured. Julie saw a specialist within a few days.
The specialist explained that it was important to “stage” the disease, i.e.
fi nd out where else the disease might be. Julie had a CT scan (to assess if
there were any other enlarged lymph nodes or other organs), a PET scan
to assess if there were any areas of increased metabolic activity and a bone
marrow biopsy to see if the disease had spread to the bone marrow. After
these tests, Julie was said to have Stage IIB Hodgkin lymphoma. This
meant that she had disease in two sites (the neck and chest) (II), and she
had night sweats (B symptoms).
Julie has now started a course of cytotoxic chemotherapy called ABVD,
(after the initials of the drugs used). She has treatment every 2 weeks at
the hospital’s out-patient cytotoxic unit, and after two courses she noticed
that her sweats had disappeared. She has deferred her final exams until
after her chemotherapy is fi nished and spoke to a gynaecologist about
her fertility before starting treatment. At Julie’s age and with this type of
chemotherapy the gynaecologist felt that there was a good chance that her
fertility should be retained.

Comment
Julie has a very good chance that her disease will be eradicated by the
treatment but will require further blood tests and scans to be sure.

19.7

Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas

NHL is not just one disease. It is a range of diseases of the reticuloendothelial
system grouped together and called the NHLs. The particular type of lymphoma
depends upon the predominant type of malignant cell in the tissue in which it
arose. One uncommon form of NHL is a “T” (tissue) cell lymphoma that predominantly involves skin. It is called mycosis fungoides (Fig. 19.2).

19.7.1

Presentation

Like Hodgkin lymphoma, this group of diseases begins in reticulo-endothelial tissues (the “immune” body defence system) and may fi rst be noticed in
lymph nodes. However, the fi rst indication of NHLs may be enlargements of
the spleen, tonsils or lymph nodes, or lumps in other organs such as stomach,

NHL is not just
one disease.
It is a range of
diseases of the
reticuloendothelial system.

276

19

The Leukaemias and Lymphomas

19

Fig. 19.2. Photograph showing advanced mycosis fungoides (a rare form of lymphoma
that predominantly develops in skin). This patient was a 63-year-old woman

bowel, lung, bone or skin. NHL is more common than Hodgkin lymphoma in
older age groups. The gender ratio is about 2:1 males/females. The incidence
increased over the last two decades of the twentieth century and is still increasing.
About 3–4% of Aids patients will develop NHL. Treatment is somewhat
controversial and complex. It depends on the tissues involved and the stage of the
disease. For early disease, radiotherapy is used while for more advanced disease,
chemotherapy using an alkylating agent. High-dose chemotherapy with rescue
may be indicated for very advanced disease.
The purine analogues (as mentioned early under treatments for chronic
lymphocytic anaemia, CLL) and monoclonal antibody therapy (Rituxan and
Campath 1H) have become important in treating some lymphomas (Fig. 19.2).

19.7.2

Investigations

Diagnosis is usually made by surgical removal of an enlarged lymph node or biopsy
of a lump in another tissue with microscopic examination and also by immunohistochemical features in blood, especially LDH (lactodehydrogenase).
The disease tends to involve a number of tissues other than lymph nodes and
the best form of treatment will depend upon the predominant type of malignant
cell rather than the organs or tissues involved. However, similar investigations as
for Hodgkin disease are usually required including full blood count, chest X-ray,
CT scan, bone marrow biopsies and liver biopsy. PET scans may be of additional
diagnostic help when these become more readily available. Surgery to determine
the stage of the cancer is now rarely needed.

19.7 Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas

19.7.3

277

Treatment

Just as for Hodgkin lymphoma, treatment of the NHLs is by radiotherapy,
chemotherapy or both. However, depending on the type of lymphoma, different
plans of radiotherapy or different programs of chemotherapy are used. With
this information lymphoma therapy teams can arrange the most appropriate
treatment plan.
In general, radiotherapy is best used for localised disease. Because NHL are
likely to involve more than one site treatment by general body chemotherapy
(systemic chemotherapy) is usually required. Sometimes, in some types of lymphoma, the use of a single anti-cancer cytotoxic agent will achieve good results
but, in general, best results are achieved when a combination of two or more
cytotoxic drugs is used.
Over recent years, results of treatment of most NHLs have improved significantly with modern treatment regimens. This is especially so in some specific
types of lymphoma. For some patients, especially younger ones, very high dose
toxic treatment followed by a bone marrow transplant may be used for advanced
disease. Results to date have been encouraging especially in young people.

CASE REPORT
Non-Hodgkin lymphoma
Arthur is a 67-year-old farmer who was still working on his farm but for
a few weeks he had noticed that his energy had not been as good as usual.
He had lost his appetite and he had noticed his clothing, particularly his
trousers, had become a bit looser than normal. One day while taking a
shower he noticed a swelling in his left groin. The swelling was not painful and he wondered if it was a hernia. He mentioned this to his wife who
suggested he get things checked by the local doctor.
Next day the doctor confi rmed that Arthur had a swelling in his groin
but it was fi rm and was not reducible and did not feel like a hernia. There
was also a vague sensation of a mass in the abdomen. His doctor referred
him to a surgeon at the local hospital who agreed that the mass in the groin
was worrying and recommended a biopsy to see what the problem was.
Within a week Arthur was in the Day-surgery area having a biopsy and it
showed that the mass was a collection of enlarged lymph nodes affected
by NHL.
(continued)

278

19

19

The Leukaemias and Lymphomas

(continued)
The surgeon explained that this is a type of cancer of the lymph nodes
and that in broad terms these types of cancer can be divided into two
main types depending on microscopic fi ndings. The more common type
is called NHL and the less common type is Hodgkin lymphoma. It is
important to differentiate, as the treatments for the two diseases are
different.
Even within these two broad categories there are many different subtypes which the pathologist can identify and aid treatment strategies.
In Arthur’s case the diagnosis was diffuse large cell lymphoma, which
is one of the common types of NHL. Arthur was seen by a specialist who
arranged some blood tests and staging procedures (CT scan, PET Scan,
Bone marrow biopsy) to identify where else the disease was present. In
addition, as Arthur had been on treatment for blood pressure, a gated heart
pool scan was arranged to ensure his heart would tolerate treatment. The
scans showed that Arthur did indeed have a mass of lymph nodes in his
abdomen (about 4 × 3 cm in diameter) and an enlarged lymph node (2 cm)
in his left axilla. Arthur was thus classified as Stage III (having lymph
nodes enlarged above and below the diaphragm). The bone marrow test
was clear.
After these tests were completed, Arthur was started on a program of
intravenous chemotherapy called R-CHOP (after the initials of the drugs
used). This contains a new product (R) called a monoclonal antibody
(Rituximab) in addition to standard chemotherapeutic agents and has
been shown to be of benefit in patients with diffuse large-cell lymphoma.
The monoclonal antibody directs the chemotherapy directly to the target
tumour cells. This treatment is given as an outpatient every 3 weeks.
Comment

In Arthur’s case the specialist indicated that the treatment had a reasonable chance of success and that the aim of treatment was to eradicate the
disease. If this could be done the chances of being alive in 5 years was
about 30–40%.

A major improvement in treatment outcome has been the development of a
genetically engineered antibody directed against the lymphoma cells. This is
produced using biotechnology industrial processes using mouse cells to produce a humanized antibody. The antibody is named Mabthera (Ritiximab) and
is used in combination with chemotherapy. The results of treatment for some of
the early stage lymphomas can be excellent with a high cure rate, particularly
for the so-called diffuse large B cell lymphomas.

19.8 Multiple Myeloma

19.8

Multiple Myeloma

This tumour occurs in bone but is not truly a tumour of bone. It is in fact a
malignant tumour of plasma cells in bone (plasmocytoma). Plasma cells are
cells responsible for making antibodies or immunoglobulin molecules, they are
a type of blood forming cell in bone. Plasmocytoma shows in X-rays as a “hole”
or “holes” in one or more bones. Usually there are many lesions in a number of
bones although occasionally a single “hole” only is present. A single lesion is
called a solitary plasmocytoma.
Multiple myeloma most often affects adults over 40 or 50 years and is more
common in “developed” countries. It causes local pain and swelling and sometimes fractures in affected bones. Back pain is sometimes associated with collapse of a vertebral body.

19.8.1

Investigations

X-rays may show typical “punched out” areas in bones. A blood count is taken
because patients usually have anaemia. Other changes in the blood proteins
may confi rm the diagnosis. The lesions and pain are often in vertebrae or near
the ends of long bones so that pain is often felt in the back or limbs. There may
be hypercalcaemia and kidney failure and sometimes, unexplained fevers or
infections.
The urine is also examined for a particular type of protein (Bence-Jones protein) which, if present, is diagnostic for multiple myeloma.

19.8.2

Treatment

Because this tumour is usually widespread, it cannot be eradicated by surgery. Treatment by chemotherapy with local radiotherapy of painful lumps
offers the best relief of symptoms and sometimes long-term control. As yet
there is no known cure but interferon has been found to increase duration of
chemotherapy and has induced remissions and thalidomide (and especially the
thalidomide analogue lenalomide) has demonstrated efficacy, probably because
of its anti-angiogenic effects. (That is it prevents the tumour developing new
capillaries on which all tumours depend for nourishment and further growth.)
Treatment of anaemia may require blood transfusion. Bisphosphonates are used
to reduce pain and help stabilise diseased areas of bone.
Autologous stem cell transplantation using blood-derived stem cells has been
shown to be beneficial in patients fit enough to undergo the procedure. Combinations of lenalomide with high dose chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation
is now regarded as most appropriate treatment for most patients, especially for
patients under 65 years.

279

Soft-Tissue Sarcomas
•

20

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Fibrosarcoma
› Liposarcoma
› Rhabdomyosarcoma
› Leiomyosarcoma
› Neurosarcoma
› Malignant ﬁ brous histiosarcoma (MFH)
› Angiosarcoma
› Synovial sarcoma (synoviosarcoma or malignant synovioma)

A sarcoma is a cancer of connective tissue such as muscle, bone, cartilage,
fat, nerves, fascia, tendons, and blood and lymph vessels. Hence sarcomas can
develop in any part of the body although they are not as common as carcinomas that develop from epithelial tissues such as skin and other lining cells and
glands. This is probably because there is not such a constant turnover of cells
in connective tissues as in epithelial tissues.
Sarcomas are classified into two groups, soft-tissue sarcomas and hard sarcomas of bone or cartilage (osteosarcomas and chondrosarcomas). There are no
known causes.
The soft tissues are those connective tissues that surround the bones of the
body and include muscles, fat, fascia, nerves, tendons, blood vessels and lymphatic vessels. The majority of soft-tissue tumours are not malignant – it is only
when they are malignant that the term sarcoma applies. Thus most tumours of
fatty tissue are lipomas – it is only when one of these is malignant that it is called
a liposarcoma. Similarly, most tumours of fibrous tissue are benign and are called
fibromas, and most tumours of nerves are benign and are called neuromas. Most
tumours of blood or lymph vessels are benign and are called angiomas, either
haemangiomas composed of primitive blood vessels, or lymphangiomas composed of primitive lymphatic vessels (Fig. 20.1).
Soft-tissue sarcomas are classified according to the type of tissue from which
they arise and the type of tissue they most resemble.

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_20, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

281

282

20

20 S oft-Tissue Sarcomas
Fig. 20.1. Photograph of a large
benign haemangioma of tongue
in a young woman

The following is a list of tissues from which soft-tissue sarcomas develop:
Fibrous tissue – fibrosarcoma
Fatty tissue – liposarcoma
Nerve tissue – neurosarcoma
Histiocytes (protective cells – malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH)
Synovial membrane lining a joint or tendon sheath – synovial sarcoma (synovioma)
Blood vessels – haemangiosarcoma
Lymphatic vessels – lymphangiosarcoma
Muscle – myosarcoma
Myosarcomas may be further classified as rhabdomyosarcoma and leiomyosarcoma. A rhabdomyosarcoma is a malignant tumour of a voluntary muscle
(that is, one of the muscles of the body over which we have control in moving
arms, legs, abdomen, back, head and neck or the muscles used in breathing).
A leiomyosarcoma is a malignant tumour of involuntary muscle, that is, one of
the muscles over which we have no conscious control such as the muscle in the
wall of the stomach or bowel, or the muscles in the wall of the uterus or the wall
of large blood vessels.
Soft-tissue sarcomas make up only about 2% of malignant tumours. They can
occur in people of all ages from birth to old age and are relatively more common

20.1 Classiﬁcation: Pathological Types

283

in children and young adults than are most carcinomas. Unless radically excised
sarcomas have a tendency to recur locally. Whilst most cancers tend to metastasise via the lymph vessels, to lymph nodes fi rst, most sarcomas have a greater
tendency to metastasise via blood vessels to lungs rather than to lymph nodes.

20.1

Classiﬁcation: Pathological Types

20.1.1 Fibrosarcoma
These tumours develop in fascia or fibrous tissue that covers and surrounds muscles, nerves and other tissues and is distributed widely throughout the body. Thus
a fibrosarcoma may develop almost anywhere in the body especially in a limb or in
the tissues of the trunk. One very fibrous and slowly growing type of fibrosarcoma,
called a desmoid tumour, has a tendency to grow into nearby tissues and to recur
locally after surgical excision but rarely metastasises to other organs. Other more
cellular and less fibrous types have a greater tendency to metastasise.

20.1.2

Liposarcoma

These tumours develop from fatty tissue and may arise in any tissue or organ where
fat is present. They tend to vary from a low-grade malignancy likely to recur locally
after excision but unlikely to metastasise, to a high-grade malignancy in which
both local recurrence and metastatic spread to lungs is common. As a rule the
deeper they are (sometimes they are deep in muscle tissue) and the larger they have
become, the more likely they are to be a higher grade of malignancy (Fig. 20.2).

Fig. 20.2. A large liposarcoma of shoulder
region in a 73-year-old man

284

20

20 S oft-Tissue Sarcomas

20.1.3

Rhabdomyosarcoma

This tumour presents most commonly in infants and young children as a swelling
in voluntary muscle, especially in muscles of the head and neck, genitourinary
tract, thorax and limbs. It is the sarcoma most likely to metastasise to lymph
nodes although it does metastasise to lungs (Fig. 20.3).

20.1.4

Leiomyosarcoma

This tumour may occur at any site where there is smooth muscle, including the
wall of the stomach or bowel or the uterus or the wall of large blood vessels.

20.1.5

Neurosarcoma

This tumour may develop on any nerve. Sometimes it is purely a tumour of nerve
cells, and sometimes it is a mixture of fibrous tissue and nerve tissue and it may
then be called a neurofibrosarcoma.

Fig. 20.3. The swelling in the jaw in this
4-year-old boy proved to be a rhabdomyosarcoma

20.1 Classiﬁcation: Pathological Types

20.1.6

Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma (MFH)

These tumours most commonly develop in muscles, fascia or fatty tissues in
limbs. They are fi rm rounded tumours rather like liposarcomas or fibrosarcomas.
If deep in muscle, they may become quite large before they are noticed as they
cause few if any symptoms until a lump is felt (Fig. 20.4).

20.1.7

Angiosarcoma

These tumours may develop from endothelial cells of blood vessels or lymph vessels. They develop as enlarging vascular masses (clumps containing partly formed
blood vessels). They are softish tumours and may contain either blood or lymphatic
fluid and thus may be called haemangiosarcoma or lymphangiosarcoma.
Angiosarcoma is a poor prognosis neoplasm because of the high propensity
of blood-born metastases.

20.1.8 Synovial Sarcoma (Synoviosarcoma or Malignant Synovioma)
This tumour of synovial membrane is often a highly aggressive malignant
tumour and occurs most commonly in limbs near joints or in association with
the sheaths around tendons.

Fig. 20.4. A large malignant fibrous histiocytoma caused this swelling in the thigh of a
77-year-old woman

285

286

20 S oft-Tissue Sarcomas

20.1.9

20
Sarcomas
occasionally
develop from
previously
benign
tumours of a
similar type.
More often,
however,
these tumours
arise as a local
swelling from
no apparent
pre-existing
abnormality.

More recently,
induction, or
neo-adjuvant,
chemo-therapy
has been
used before
operation to
reduce the
size, extent
and viability
of large or
aggressive
primary
sarcomas
before surgery.

Presentation

Sarcomas occasionally develop from previously benign tumours of a similar
type. For example, a previously benign lipoma may begin to enlarge, showing
evidence of malignant change to become a liposarcoma. More often, however,
these tumours arise as a local swelling from no apparent pre-existing abnormality.
Usually, though not always, the lump is painless. Occasionally the swelling
develops at a site of recent injury and the possibility of a sarcoma developing as
a result of injury cannot altogether be dismissed. It is more likely, however, that
in most cases the injury drew attention to a lump that was already present.
Rarely the fi rst evidence of a soft-tissue sarcoma is found on a chest X-ray
showing lung metastases.

20.1.10 Investigations
Like all health problems the fi rst requirement is to take a history of the presentation of the problem from the patient’s point of view. In the case of a sarcoma it
will usually include a history of the lump and how and when it was fi rst noticed;
the presence, or absence of pain or other possible associated symptoms and if,
when and how rapidly it started to enlarge or otherwise change; then the general
health of the patient and any relevant previous or family history. The lump is
measured, the local draining lymph nodes and other lymph nodes are examined
and a chest X-ray and full blood count are performed. CT scans or MRI scans,
ultrasound and angiography (as discussed in Chap. 7) may also give more information about the tumour (Fig. 20.5). MRI scans are now used preferentially in
most centres. Microscopic examination of a biopsy specimen of the lump will
establish the diagnosis.
Whether further information of value can be learned from PET scans is presently being investigated.

20.1.11 Treatment
The standard treatment of soft-tissue sarcomas is excision at a surgical operation.
Because the risk of local recurrence of sarcoma is high, the surgeon must remove
a great deal of apparently normal tissue around the tumour to be as sure possible
that all of the malignant cells have been removed. For large sarcomas in a limb,
sometimes amputation of the limb may offer the best chance of surgical cure.
Because of the high risk of local recurrence amputation was the preferred choice
of treatment for most large sarcomas in limbs and even moderate sized sarcomas,
until the mid or late 1970s until it became appreciated that whilst these tumours
are usually not particularly sensitive to radiotherapy, sometimes radiotherapy
before or after local surgery could achieve better results than surgery alone.

20.1 Classiﬁcation: Pathological Types

Fig. 20.5. Angiogram showing vascularity of a large synoviosarcoma in the popliteal
fossa of a 43-year-old woman

Many of these tumours respond to cytotoxic chemotherapy. Early medical
experience with chemotherapy to treat metastatic sarcoma, especially in the
lungs, achieved some regression, with improved length of survival for some
patients, but dramatic improvement in results was rare. More recently, induction,
(or neoadjuvant), chemotherapy has been used before operation to reduce the
size, extent and viability of large or aggressive primary sarcomas before surgery.
This chemotherapy (see Sect. 8.3.4.9), will be more concentrated if given by
regional infusion into a supplying artery and good results have been reported
when this procedure is followed by surgery.
Another form of combined therapy proving to be effective in many cases is
concomitant chemotherapy and radiotherapy. In experienced hands this is proving
very effective in treating a number of locally advanced cancers, however it is
potentially considerably more toxic to local tissues than serial use (i.e regional
chemotherapy followed by surgery).
Combined treatments with chemotherapy and surgery with or without radiotherapy have often avoided the need for amputation and should now be considered by experts experienced in these techniques before a decision to amputate is
made. Liposarcomas and malignant fibrous histiocytomas are the most common
of the soft-tissue sarcomas and even when very large they usually respond well
to chemotherapy, especially when given directly to the tumour site by regional
infusion before surgery. This will often reduce them to smaller, less aggressive

287

288

20

20 S oft-Tissue Sarcomas

and locally resectable tumours, making follow-up surgical resection possible and
successful in most cases without the need for amputation.
Another effective technique being studied in treatment of large or aggressive sarcomas in limbs is by closed circuit infusion with chemotherapy and TNF
(tumour necrosis factor) (Sect. 8.4.2.4). Good results that avoid amputation have
also been reported.
With some sarcomas, the risk of metastatic spread to lungs is considerable and
there may be virtue in also giving a post-operative course of systemic adjuvant
chemotherapy (Sect. 8.3.4.5) to reduce this risk. Studies are being carried out to
determine whether routine use of adjuvant treatment is worthwhile for patients
with aggressive sarcoma.
Sometimes after successful treatment of a soft-tissue sarcoma one solitary
metastatic deposit will be seen in a follow-up chest X-ray. This may have the
appearance of a small round “cannon-ball” and is referred to as a “cannon ball
metastasis”. Occasionally such a lesion can be resected and if it truly is a solitary
metastasis the patient may be cured.
Angiosarcoma being of and in blood or lymph vessels metastasises early and
although surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy are the mainstays of treatment, because of the poor outlook, biotherapy treatments are now being closely
investigated.

CASE REPORT
Rhabdomyosarcoma
John is a 3-year-old Turkish boy whose mother took him to their family
doctor after noticing a swelling of the muscles in the posterior aspect of
his left leg. The family doctor found a fi rm, non-tender, slightly mobile,
mass, that was attached to the muscles below and behind the left knee.
Physical examination was otherwise unremarkable, and plain X-ray of the
lower legs detected no abnormality. An MRI scan of the legs detected a
localised lesion in the left soleus muscle measuring 5.6 cm (superior to
inferior) by 2 cm (anterior to posterior) by 4 cm (left to right). The mass
had a slightly increased density compared to muscle. Multiple septations (lobules) were identified within the mass. No fat-like component
or haemorrhage was identified. The appearances were reported as being suggestive of a sarcoma or fibrosarcoma in the left soleus muscle.
John was admitted urgently to the Children’s Hospital. A biopsy of the
lesion performed under general anaesthesia revealed rhabdomyosarcoma
(continued)

20.1 Classiﬁcation: Pathological Types

(continued)
(of the aggressive alveolar type). Staging investigations, including a CT
scan of chest, abdomen and pelvis, bone scan, gallium scan, bone marrow aspirate, and PET scan, detected no distant metastases. However a
discrete PET-enhancing scan suggested a lesion in the left popliteal fossa,
remote to and above the primary tumour, consistent with an infiltrated
regional lymph node. A central venous catheter was inserted under the
same anaesthetic for the biopsy. Cardiac, liver function, and glomerular
filtration tests were all normal.
John commenced intensive systemic chemotherapy (using a combination of vincristine, actinomycin-D, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide,
given in pulses every 3–4 weeks for three courses. G-CSF, a bone-marrow
cell stimulating factor, was administered subcutaneously daily between
courses to hasten bone marrow recovery. Each chemotherapy course
caused severe mucositis, severe bone marrow depression, fever and presumed sepsis requiring broad-spectrum IV antibiotics, and anaemia and
thrombocytopenia, requiring transfusion support. John remained hospitalised for the fi rst 2 months of therapy to receive either planned chemotherapy or supportive care while recovering.
Progress MRI and PET scans performed 2 months after the initial scans
revealed some reduction in size of the primary tumour, and persistence of
the regional abnormal lymph node.
John is currently recovering from the third course of chemotherapy and
is under consideration for a surgical procedure, which would remove the
muscles from the rear compartment of his left leg along with the regional
lymph node. This is considered an effective method of gaining control of
the visible component of the disease, with an acceptable level of consequent orthopaedic disability. The alternative is radiation therapy to the left
lower leg, which would cause sufficiently severe long-term effects to require
probable late amputation of the lower leg. Adjuvant chemotherapy is to be
continued following a stem-cell harvest, collected to permit a high dose
marrow-ablating chemotherapy treatment with stem-cell rescue to be given
to complete planned chemotherapy around 9 months from diagnosis.

Comment
Sadly this boy has a poor prognosis despite the intensity of treatment
given. The alveolar subtype of histology documented in the primary tumour and the detectable regional node involvement at the time of diagnosis
are poor prognosis features.

289

290

20

20 S oft-Tissue Sarcomas

EX ERCISE
Drawing on case reports in this chapter and other chapters of this book,
construct a case report of a typical adult patient presenting with and being
investigated and managed for a very big (10-cm diameter) sarcoma of thigh
that proved to be a liposarcoma. What alternative plans of management
might be considered?

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

Malignant Tumours of Bone and Cartilage

21

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Osteosarcoma
› Osteoclastoma (central giant cell tumour of bone)
› Ewing’s tumour
› Chondrosarcoma

21.1

Osteosarcoma

A malignant tumour of bone-forming cells is called an osteosarcoma. This is a
highly malignant cancer and tends to affect children and young adults, with the
highest incidence between 10 and 25 years. The cause of osteosarcoma in young
people is not known although it does occur most often in the growing parts of
bone near the bone ends while the patient is still growing and developing.
A rare and virtually incurable osteosarcoma sometimes develops in old people
but in these people the sarcoma has almost always occurred in a bone with a longstanding bone disease called osteitis deformans or Paget’s disease of bone.

21.1.1 Presentation
Osteosarcoma in young people usually fi rst develops as a painful lump near
the end of a long bone. There may be an obvious swelling occasionally with
overlying redness and sometimes a fever. The swelling may be tender and may
at fi rst look like an acute infection in bone. This sarcoma tends to metastasise
to lungs early in its course so that best results are achieved if it is diagnosed
and treated very early.

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_21, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

Osteosarcoma
in young people
usually ﬁrst
develops as a painful
lump near the end
of a long bone.

291

292

21

21.1.2

21

Malignant Tumours of Bone and Cartilage

Investigations

Bone X-rays showing a diseased area with “sunray” appearance is typical of
osteosarcoma. There is evidence of bone destruction and irregular new bone
formation in the same area of bone. More precise information can be learned
from CT studies or MRI studies. PET scans if available may give even more
information about the tumour. However, the ultimate deciding test is a biopsy in
which a small piece of the tumour is taken for microscopic examination. Chest
X-rays will also be taken to look for evidence of spread to the lungs although
there is commonly micro-metastatic spread to the lungs before becoming visible
in chest X-rays.

21.1.3 Treatment

The outlook has
been greatly
improved
with modern
chemotherapy
given before
and after
surgery.

In the pre-chemotherapy days, osteosarcoma could rarely be cured. Treatment was
by early amputation of an affected limb, sometimes in combination with radiotherapy, but death usually resulted due to development of lung metastases.
The outlook has been greatly improved with modern chemotherapy given
before and after surgery (Sect. 8.3.4.8).
At fi rst, amputation was commonly used to eradicate the primary sarcoma
and the chemotherapy was used to eradicate any small microscopic metastases in
the lungs before they could grow into larger incurable metastases. From almost
no cures previously the cure rate was improved to about 50% but in virtually all
cured patients a limb was amputated.
The use of chemotherapy has now been taken even further. Rather than amputation of the limb induction chemotherapy is given fi rst. The chemotherapy will
affect the primary sarcoma in the bone making it smaller and less aggressive. At
the same time the circulating chemotherapy helps eradicate any micro-metastatic
deposits of sarcoma in lungs or elsewhere. In some specialised treatment centres
the primary cancer can be exposed to an even greater concentration of chemotherapy if given by intra-arterial infusion. Having passed through the limb, the
chemotherapy then flows into the general circulation as systemic chemotherapy
and affects micro-metastatic deposits in lung or elsewhere. Although attractive as
a potentially more effective method of exposing the primary cancer to more concentrated chemotherapy, the technique requires close nursing attention and expert
management and as yet studies have not been carried out to determine whether the
advantage gained justifies the more complex and more expensive technique.
Reports of cures without amputation in 80% of cases in which intra-arterial
chemotherapy was given fi rst as induction treatment have now been matched
by reports of equally successful results with treatment by intense high-dose
chemotherapy given systemically pre-operatively. In both cases post-operative
systemic “adjuvant” chemotherapy is given to deal with any residual cancer cells
wherever they might be, most likely in the lungs.

21.1 Osteosarcoma

293

After reduction of the size and aggressiveness of the primary tumour, either
by systemic or regional chemotherapy, the section of bone containing the residual
primary sarcoma must be excised and replaced by a metal or plastic prosthesis
to reconstruct the bone. An experienced orthopaedic surgeon is needed to carry
out this operation. If there is any remaining doubt about any malignant cells still
being present, radiotherapy might also be given after the surgery (Fig. 21.1).

Fig. 21.1. On the left is an angiogram showing vascularity of a large osteosarcoma of
lower femur of a 22-year-old man. On the right is a repeat angiogram of the same
leg showing the response to chemotherapy. In this case the pre-operative “induction”
chemotherapy was give by infusion into the femoral artery. The lower femur still with
residual but much reduced sarcoma was then resected and the bone reconstructed with
a metal prosthesis. The patient was then given adjuvant chemotherapy by intravenous
infusions at monthly intervals for 6 months. When last seen 8 years later he was well
and walking well with no evidence of residual sarcoma

EX ERCISE
What investigations are helpful in diagnosing the presence, size, blood
supply and extent of sarcomas?

...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................

294

21

21

Malignant Tumours of Bone and Cartilage

CASE REPORT
Osteosarcoma
Mohammed was a 12-year-old boy who had complained of pain in the right
knee region. The pain had been fi rst noticed 5 weeks previously and had
been gradually increasing, causing him to limp. For 2 weeks his mother
noticed swelling just below the knee. The swelling had been slowly increasing. His mother also said that Mohammed had appeared feverish.
His family doctor arranged X-rays of his knee. The X-rays showed an
area of mixed destruction and increased calcification in the upper end of
the tibia with slightly raised periosteum. There were small spicules of
bone protruding at right angles from the lesion in the bone.
Mohammed was referred to an orthopaedic specialist who arranged an
MRI scan of the knee and a chest X-ray.
No abnormality was seen in the chest X-rays but the presence of a destructive lesion consistent with osteosarcoma was confi rmed in the MRI.
A core biopsy of the lesion, CT scans of lungs and radio-isotope bone
scans were arranged. The biopsy confi rmed the presence of osteosarcoma.
No lesion was seen in the lung CTs and other than the lesion in the upper
tibia no other bone lesion was detected.
Mohammed was treated with three cycles of chemotherapy (cisplatin
and adriamycin were used by systemic infusion).
The pain and swelling decreased and after completion of chemotherapy
the lesion had regressed significantly but blood counts showed reduced
white cells requiring antibiotic cover.
Four weeks later when the blood count had returned to normal the
lower femur and upper tibia were excised and a joint prosthesis inserted.
Histopathology confi rmed almost total destruction of the sarcoma.
Four cycles of post operative adjuvant chemotherapy was administered
using the same chemotherapeutic agents.
Five years later Mohammed remains well with no evidence of disease.

21.1.4

Intra-Operative Irradiation

A recent study in treatment of osteosarcoma is for the surgeon to excise the
section of bone containing the tumour, and have that section heavily irradiated
(with a certain tumouricidal irradiation dose) and re-implanted into its original
site. The irradiated bone forms as a strut around which new tumour-free bone
develops so acting as a graft. Encouraging results are being reported.

21.2 Osteoclastoma (Central Giant Cell Tumour of Bone)

295

EX ERCISE
Consider why amputation of a limb for advanced soft tissue sarcoma
or osteosarcoma is now a relatively rare event.

...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................

21.2

Osteoclastoma (Central Giant Cell Tumour of Bone)

This tumour occurs most commonly in the ends of long bones of middle-aged
adults, most often around the knee joint. It is a tumour of low-grade malignancy
in that it does not often metastasise to other organs or tissues but does tend to
develop locally, and commonly recurs locally after attempts at removal. Sometimes recurrent osteoclastomas develop malignant changes.

21.2.1

Presentation

The fi rst evidence of this tumour is usually swelling near a joint, such as the
knee joint, often with pain. It may be fi rst noticed due to a fracture of the
weakened bone.

21.2.2 Investigations
X-rays, CT or MRI will usually show a typical cystic appearance of this tumour.
A pathologist will establish the diagnosis after microscopic examination of a
biopsy specimen.

21.2.3

Treatment

If possible, the tumour is removed surgically. If inadequately removed, radiotherapy may be given post-operatively.
Recurrent osteoclastoma tends to be more malignant and treatment by amputation may then be required.

Recurrent
osteoclastoma
tends to be more
malignant and
treatment by
amputation may
be required.

296

21

21

21.3

Malignant Tumours of Bone and Cartilage

Ewing’s Tumour

This is an uncommon highly malignant tumour that occurs most often in the
shafts of long bones of children and adolescents from 5 to 15 years. Although it
occurs in bones, it is not truly a tumour of bone cells but is a tumour of undifferentiated connective tissue or neurogenic tissue in bone.

21.3.1

Presentation

Pain, swelling, fever and anaemia are common features of Ewing’s tumour, so
much so that a diagnosis of infection (osteomyelitis) may be thought to be present. Sometimes lesions are present in more than one bone. Metastases to lungs
or other bones are common.

21.3.2

Investigations

An increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), increased white cell count
and a degree of anaemia are usual features. X-rays of the bone typically show a
laminated “onion peel” appearance due to periosteal reaction. Further information may be gained from CT or MRI studies or from isotope scans. Biopsy and
microscopic examination will establish the diagnosis.
This is a tumour where, if available, PET scans may be especially helpful to
detect any focus of tumour in bones at other sites and to evaluate response to
chemotherapy and radiotherapy.

21.3.3 Treatment
In the past, standard treatment was by surgery (usually amputation), but was generally unsuccessful. Fortunately Ewing’s tumour is radiosensitive and chemosensitive.
With modern treatment using induction chemotherapy, radiotherapy and
possibly local surgical excision of the affected piece of bone, and further post
irradiation or post-operative adjuvant chemotherapy, significantly better results
are now being achieved. Recently myelo-ablative chemotherapy followed by
autologous bone marrow transplantion for poor prognosis patients has given
good results.
From being a malignancy considered almost universally incurable a few years
ago most of these patients are now cured.

21.4 Chondrosarcoma

21.4

Chondrosarcoma

21.4.1

Presentation

Chondrosarcoma is a malignant tumour of cartilage and most often affects
middle-aged adults. It varies from low-grade (the majority) to high-grade malignancy. This tumour may develop on any bone, especially at the ends of long
bones or in bones of the pelvis, shoulder or ribs. It usually presents as a slowly
growing painful lump on a bone, often near a large joint.

21.4.2

Investigations

X-rays will often show typical appearance of a chondrosarcoma: a cartilage-like
swelling. Biopsy will establish the diagnosis. CT or MRI studies will help show
the exact position, nature and extent of the tumour.

21.4.3

Treatment

If possible, radical surgical excision of the tumour with adjacent bone is carried
out. This may require amputation of a limb.
These sarcomas are not sensitive to standard radiotherapy or chemotherapy
but, because they are slowly growing and usually do not metastasise until late
in the disease most can be cured as long as the primary tumour can be widely
excised before the sarcoma is very advanced.
Encouraging responses with high percentage of apparent cures of chondrosarcomas in inaccessible surgical sites, especially the base of skull, are now reported
from Boston , USA and other clinics with proton-beam radiotherapy facilities.

297

Metastatic (Secondary) Cancer

22

In this chapter you will learn about:

› The most likely sites of metastatic spread from primary cancers

A metastatic (secondary) cancer is the term used to describe a cancer that is
growing in an organ or tissue some distance away from the tissue or organ in
which it originated. The most important differences between benign tumours
and malignant tumours are that benign tumours tend to be slowly growing and
remain localised to the tissue in which they arose. Malignant tumours tend to
grow more rapidly, grow into surrounding structures and spread and establish
secondary growths in tissues or organs away from their primary site of development. To spread to distant sites, malignant cells usually grow into blood vessels
or lymph vessels. Individual cells or clumps of cells break off and are carried by
the bloodstream or the lymphatic vessels to a distant organ or tissue or to lymph
nodes where they may grow as secondary or metastatic tumours. It is somewhat
akin to the spreading cancer cells acting like “seeds” and being transported
along blood or lymph vessels to a new “soil” where they may take root and grow.
Malignant cells may also sometimes spread along nerve sheaths, or, across body
cavities such as the abdominal cavity or a pleural cavity.
The most common site for metastatic spread of carcinomas as opposed to
sarcomas, is via lymph vessels into lymph nodes. First, they grow in lymph
nodes near the original cancer and then spread into lymph nodes further away
(Fig. 22.1). The next most common sites of spread are by the bloodstream to
the lungs or liver.
Other common sites of metastatic spread are to bones, the brain, under the
skin, or to the ovaries. No tissue is exempt from developing a metastasis, including
the adrenal glands and the kidneys. However, some organs and tissues tend to
have a relatively low incidence of metastatic growth of most cancers for no
obvious reason. These include the spleen and muscles.

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_22, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

299

300

22

22 Metastatic (Secondary) Cancer

EX ERCISE
What primary sites are likely to have resulted in metastatic involvement of
cervical (neck) lymph nodes?

........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................
........................................................................

Fig. 22.1. This elderly woman had metastatic cancer in enlarged, hard cervical lymph nodes from a squamous
cancer under the right side of her
tongue. She had not been aware of
any trouble in her mouth

The likelihood
of a tumour
metastasising
to a particular
site depends to
a considerable
degree on the
type of tumour
and its place
of origin.

The likelihood of a tumour metastasising to a particular site depends to a considerable degree on the type of tumour and its place of origin. Stomach, pancreas and
bowel cancers, for example, tend to spread first to abdominal lymph nodes and by
portal vein to the liver. Breast cancer tends to spread first to nearby lymph nodes and
later to the lungs, liver and bone. Prostate cancer tends to spread local lymph nodes
and to bone. Skin cancer and cancers in the mouth and throat tend to spread to nearby
lymph nodes with the exception of basal cell cancer which rarely spreads anywhere
other than into surrounding tissues. Lung cancers, on the other hand, tend to spread
early not only to lymph nodes but to almost any other organ or tissue in the body
including bone and brain. Like lung cancer melanoma tends to spread not only to
lymph nodes, lung, liver, lung, bowel and brain but also to the spleen.

22 Metastatic (Secondary) Cancer

301

Sarcomas are more likely to first spread via the bloodstream to the lungs rather than
to lymph nodes. The most likely sites of cancer metastases are given in Table 22.1.
Table 22.1 Most likely sites of cancer metastases
Primary

Common sites for metastases

Chap.

BCC of skin

Very rarely metastasises

10

SCC of skin

Regional lymph nodes; the next group of lymph
nodes; lungs very late in disease spread

10

Melanoma

Regional lymph nodes; next group of lymph
nodes; lung; liver; brain; remote lymph nodes;
small intestine; subcutaneous tissues; spleen; bone;
adrenal glands

10

Lung

Mediastinal lymph nodes; remote lymph nodes;
bone; brain; liver; subcutaneous tissue; adrenal
glands

11

Breast

Axillary lymph nodes; supraclavicular lymph
nodes; chest lymph nodes; lung; liver; subcutaneous tissues; brain

12

Oesophagus

Adjacent mediastinal lymph nodes; other intrathoracic lymph nodes; supraclavicular lymph nodes
sometimes liver and sub-diaphragm lymph nodes

13

Stomach

Peri-gastric lymph nodes; para-gastric lymph
nodes; coeliac lymph nodes; small omentum lymph
nodes; supra clavicular lymph nodes; (usually left
side); liver; omentum; peritoneum; ovary

13

Liver

Other sites in liver, lungs, regional lymph nodes,
rarely to bone

13

Gall bladder and bile Small omentum lymph nodes; liver; peritoneum
duct

13

Pancreas

Adjacent lymph nodes; coeliac lymph nodes; small
omentum; liver; peritoneum; lungs

13

Small intestine

Mesenteric lymph nodes; para-aortic lymph nodes;
liver

13

Colon and rectum

Para-colic lymph nodes; next group of lymph
nodes; para-aortic lymph nodes; liver;
peritoneum

13

Anus – upper anal
canal Lower anal
canal

Pelvic lymph nodes; para-aortic lymph nodes;
liver; inguinal lymph nodes

13

Lips

Submental and submandibular lymph nodes; cervical lymph nodes; parotid lymph nodes

14

Tongue, floor of
mouth, buccal
mucosa

Submental lymph nodes; submandibular lymph
nodes; cervical lymph nodes; supra clavicular
lymph nodes

14

Posterior tongue,
tonsillar region and
pharynx

Tonsillar lymph node; cervical lymph nodes;
supra-clavicular lymph nodes; lung

14

(continued)

302

22

22 Metastatic (Secondary) Cancer
Table 22.1 (continued)
Primary

Common sites for metastases

Chap.

Salivary glands

Adjacent lymph nodes; cervical lymph nodes;
supra-clavicular lymph nodes

14

Thyroid gland follicular cancers

Adjacent lymph nodes; more distant lymph nodes;
also bones; lungs; liver

14

Uterus

Adjacent lymph nodes; pelvic lymph nodes; ovaries; peritoneum

15

Ovaries

Adjacent lymph nodes; pelvic lymph nodes; the
other ovary; fallopian tubes; abdominal lymph
nodes; small intestine; peritoneum; liver

15

Vagina

Adjacent lymph nodes; pelvic lymph nodes;
inguinal lymph nodes

15

Vulva

Inguinal lymph nodes; more distant lymph nodes

15

Penis

Inguinal lymph nodes; more distant lymph nodes

16

Testis

Para-aortic lymph nodes; more distant lymph
nodes; lungs

16

Prostate

Adjacent lymph nodes; pelvic lymph nodes; bone;
lung; liver

16

Bladder

Adjacent lymph nodes; pelvic lymph nodes;
peritoneum

17

Kidney renal pelvis

Hilar lymph nodes; para-aortic lymph nodes; lung
(sometimes a solitary metastasis); also ureter

17

Brain

Rarely metastasises before causing death from
primary tumour

18

Leukaemia and lymphomas

These are systemic diseases

19

Soft tissue sarcomas

Predominantly lung (sometimes a solitary metastasis)

20

Osteosarcoma

Lung (multiple and early)

21

Osteoclastama

Rarely metastasises unless it degenerates then to
lungs

21

Ewings tumour

Lung; bone

21

Chondrosarcoma

Lung, other bones but rarely metastasises until
large, painful and degenerate

21

This table provides a summary of most primary tumours, their most likely sites of
cancer metastatic spread and reference to the relevant chapters in this book where
further details of each type of cancer is discussed

22 Metastatic (Secondary) Cancer

303

EX ERCISE
List the more common primary sites of secondary cancers in:
1. Lung . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Liver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Bone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4. Brain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. Spleen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6. Left supra-clavicular lymph nodes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Techniques and Evidence of Progress

23

In this chapter you will learn about:

› Evidence-based medicine
› Clinical trials

23.1

Evidence-Based Medicine

It would be good to think that doctors would always know just what was the
right thing to do about every health problem in different people under different
circumstances but the reality is that this is not the case. The evidence is not
always available for deciding just what is best for each individual patient.
Nowhere in the field of medical practice is the situation more uncertain than
in some aspects of treating cancer.
The objective of all doctors has always been to get best evidence of most
effective management. However, the advent of computerised information with
a variety of approaches in statistical and mathematical analysis and randomised
studies, made it appropriate to link new scientifically studied and mathematically confirmed clinical information under the group umbrella known as
“evidence-based medicine”. This label distinguishes such evidence from information based on a “one-off” experience, a collection of anecdotes, traditionally
accepted beliefs, medical folklore, wishful thinking or grandmothers’ tales.
Nowadays most acceptable evidence is based on randomised trials.

Nowhere in the
ﬁeld of medical
practice is the
situation more
uncertain
than in some
aspects of
treating cancer.

23.1.1 Randomised Trials
In a randomised trial all patients referred to a specialised clinic with a problem
that needs to be studied to discover best method of care are invited to take part.
There are strict ethical standards that must be observed in conducting randomised
trials. Approval must be obtained, not only from the patients involved, but from
independent ethics committees.

F. O. Stephens and K. R. Aigner, Basics of Oncology,
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92925-3_23, © Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009

307

308

23

23

Techniques and Evidence of Progress

The nature of the trial is fully explained to patients considered appropriate
for the study and if they agree they are allocated randomly to one of two “test
groups” over which the researchers have no control. In some special studies there
may be more than two test groups. The researchers have no control over which
patients are allocated to each group. Patients in one of the two groups are treated
by the best known available standard treatment and patients in the other group
are treated by the new technique under study that is believed may be a better
method of treatment. Ideally results are recorded “blind” that is by a third party
who does not know what treatment each patient was given. Results of the two
groups are compared, usually by an appropriate form of statistical analysis, to
discover which was the better form of treatment. Such studies are known as
randomised controlled studies and are stopped as soon as there is enough
evidence that one method is better than the other. The better method is then usually
recommended for all patients.
Although this is not the only way of fi nding convincing “evidence” of best
practice, it is usually regarded as the most persuasive.

23.1.2

Often
traditional or
historically
accepted
practices
just “grew”
and became
accepted
without close
analysis or
criticism

Other Historic Methods of Gathering Evidence

Much evidence accumulated over many years of medical practice has not been
evaluated scientifically or statistically proven to give best clinical information.
In the past, doctors had to make decisions and introduce practices and concepts
based on best available evidence but this was usually gathered from historical
evidence or evidence learned by “trial and error”. Trial and error is based on the
principle of trying not to repeat mistakes, or making least mistakes. This often
masquerades as experience, but one way or another, inevitably by making some
mistakes, new information was produced and progress was made.
Often traditional or historically accepted practices just “grew” and became
accepted without close analysis or criticism. The dominant medical or surgical
teacher may have been skilled in practice but unskilled in critical analysis. Each
practitioner’s own personal experience was often taken as convincing evidence
without proper analysis or fair comparison with other evidence or under different
circumstances. This type of a teacher’s belief, or of personal experience in a
limited practice, is often referred to as “anecdotal evidence”. Although anecdotal
evidence may well be true, there is no proof that the outcome will be consistent
when used by different practitioners, in different circumstances, and for different patients.
However there are some notable exceptions to the value of a “one off”
experience.
Edward Jenner was so convinced that “immunisation” with the mild disease
cowpox would give protection against the deadly and virulent small pox disease,
that he tested his belief on himself. He injected himself with cowpox and had a
mild reaction. He later injected himself with small pox and did not get the disease. His belief was based on “anecdotal” observations and historic evidence.

23.1 Evidence-Based Medicine

There was no scientifically proven information or randomised trial yet vital
medical progress was made. In fact Jenner’s discovery of 1796 has still not been
proven by randomised trials.
Alexander Fleming, working in London in 1928, noticed a mould growing
on a culture stopped the growth of bacteria. Later, in 1940, an Australian,
Dr Howard Florey, also working in Britain, showed that an extract of Fleming’s
mould, called penicillin, could be used effectively and safely in people to kill
bacteria causing infection in humans. So penicillin was discovered and the era
of present-day antibiotic treatment of bacterial infections began. Success of treatment of pneumonia and other infections with penicillin was so obvious that no
randomised trial was ever initiated.
The approach of Edward Jenner, in using himself as a test case, is still occasionally used in testing strongly held beliefs in other areas of medicine.
In 1983 Dr Robin Warren and Dr Barry Marshal in Australia reported in
Lancet their fi nding of a bacterium called the Helicobacter pylori was present in
the gastric mucosa of patients with gastric ulcers. They believed that rather than
being a coincidental fi nding it would be found to be a cause of gastric ulcers.
To prove that this bacterium actually was a cause of gastric ulcers rather than an
incidental fi nding Dr Marshal and a friend swallowed cultures of the bacterium.
Both contracted gastritis with vomiting and abdominal pain and underwent gastroscopic examination. Biopsies showed the organism in the inflamed gastric
mucosa. This confi rmed the association between H. pylori and gastritis and subsequent epidemiological studies confi rmed that without treatment, ulcers could
develop in the inflamed gastric mucosa.
Another report of this type of approach was published in The Medical Journal
of Australia in 1997 in relation to prostate cancer. A doctor was diagnosed by
biopsies as having prostate cancer. Because he believed that there was good evidence that plant phytoestrogens could influence the growth of prostate cancer,
(as do human oestrogens), he gave himself 7 days of treatment with a moderate
dose of phytoestrogens before undergoing radical prostatectomy. After the radical
prostatectomy, the pathologist was asked to examine the prostate cancer cells and
compare their appearance with the appearance of the cancer cells taken in the
biopsies prior to any treatment.
The pathologist found clear evidence of apoptosis (inbuilt cell death) in the
cancer after the treatment without any evidence of apoptosis in the biopsy specimens taken 3 weeks earlier. This of course was a “one off” study as were the studies of Edward Jenner and Barry Marshal. Although it did not prove anything as
convincingly as would a scientifically controlled “randomised study”, it certainly
indicated that further study would be justified.
An attempt to more scientifically determine the most likely outcome of different
medical practices or treatments has now evolved, especially over the last two
or three decades of the twentieth century. Led by medical scientists with a statistical frame of mind and epidemiologists’ aptitude, “randomised trials” have
now become the doctor’s basic “measuring stick” of new information and the
foundation upon which “new” and “old” practices are now compared and judged.

309

310

23

23

Techniques and Evidence of Progress

This is a great leap forward in ability to make acceptable medical progress more
efficient. Where possible, progress in medical practice is best made in scientifically tested studies where the evidence can be tested and comparisons made and
measured against existing best practices.
However, it should not be forgotten that much of our present knowledge,
“know how” and effective practice is based on a broad range of skills in gathering evidence and it is still true that not all relevant information can be measured or converted into a computerised model. There is still need for solutions
based on logic and close and personal relationships between practitioners and
their patients. These relationships and evidence gained must not be lost in the
momentum for mathematically based science. Such factors as warmth of relationship and personal understanding of priorities in social, domestic spiritual
and other circumstances between practitioners and their patients cannot be
measured but are important in decision making. Because they cannot be measured does not mean that they should be ignored or discarded. They do make
a difference to outcome as far as people are concerned and patients are special
people.
Historical evidence, clinical experience, patient belief systems, personal and
social priorities and needs and other considerations still must play an important
part in clinical decision making. The patient must always be a person fi rst, a
person with a health problem, not primarily a health problem to be solved.
The relationship between the doctor and patient must be personal and sacrosanct,
based on many unmeasurable and intangible aspects of human emotion as well
as knowledge, and applied to the immediate health needs as worked out between
patient and doctor, not as dictated by “scientific data” alone.
Scientific limitations, variations and uncertainties are very evident in determining best treatment for women with breast cancer and men with prostate cancer. Outcomes of investigation and treatment are still unpredictable. Patients’
priorities are often quite different. What will be the right decision for one
patient will not necessarily be right for another patient. Individual judgement
and understanding must play important roles but these are difficult to measure
scientifically.
Some years ago from randomised controlled studies in women with breast
cancer it was learned that the standard operation of radical mastectomy with
removal of underlying muscles and all adjacent lymph nodes from the axilla did
not result in any more cures than a “modified” radical operation. In the modified operation, no muscle was removed. From further randomised trials it is now
known that for women with a relatively small cancer in the breast, cure is just as
likely by a “breast saving operation”. In a “breast saving operation” only that part
of the breast containing the cancer is removed together with any likely involved
axillary lymph nodes. This is followed by radiotherapy to the remaining breast
tissue. Yet some women who have a breast cancer are not comfortable unless the
whole breast is removed and they should be entitled to make this decision for
themselves if that is their wish. To these women the saving of the breast would
be more worry to them than the loss of the breast.

23.1 Evidence-Based Medicine

311

To other women, and especially to most younger women, the breast is emotionally very important to them. If the whole breast must be removed they would
choose to have an artificially reconstructed breast operation immediately rather
than be left for a period without a breast. Until recently most surgeons were
reluctant to reconstruct an artificial breast for at least 2 years, by which time
recurrence of the cancer in the breast region was unlikely. Randomised studies
have now shown that this delay does not improve the outlook for the patient and
in most cases she should be allowed to choose immediate reconstruction if she
wishes. There are sometimes other variables in patients’ wishes that may need to
be considered such as whether or not to have adjuvant chemotherapy or hormone
therapy, or radiotherapy or chemotherapy for widespread asymptomatic disease.
Some women wish to have their other breast removed, especially if there is a high
incidence of breast cancer in their families. The ultimate decision on these and
other matters must be based on the patient’s special and personal priorities and
needs together with an understanding of the best evidence available of possible
outcomes of different courses of action as explained by the doctor and treatment
teams.
In the case of prostate cancer, a histological diagnosis of cancer does not mean
that the cancer will progress during the patient’s lifetime. In only about 1 in 4
patients is the prostate cancer potentially life threatening before he dies of other
causes yet there is no certain way of determining which cancers must be treated
as a life saving measure. Most men with prostate cancer are in the older age group
and side effects of treatment aimed at cure are likely to be severe. Decisions must
be made on best available evidence but modified by the patient’s lifestyle needs
and priorities.
There are so many variations in disease processes, environmental and social
situations, human needs, beliefs, emotions, priorities and interpersonal relationships, as well as medical skills, facilities and practices that it is not always possible
to subject even basic information to scientifically designed statistical analysis.
The following truisms sums up the complexities involved.
Not all evidence can be justified by statistics and
Not all statistics can be justified as evidence
It is also important to keep in mind that:
The absence of evidence
is not the same as
Evidence of the absence.
In other words because there is no statistical evidence to prove that something
is true does not, in itself, prove that it is untrue.
In those instances where anecdotal or historic evidence or information based
on a logically proposed hypothesis is still the best available evidence, it must
inevitably still play a part in medical thinking and gathering of knowledge.

“The absence
of evidence” Is
not the same
as “Evidence of
the absence.”

312

23

23

Techniques and Evidence of Progress

Evidence based on a logical hypothesis, but not yet ready for a “randomised
trial”, can still be put to the test under a label of scientific study sometimes called
“a pilot study”. The idea and study proposed is usually put to a group of “peers”
or well-informed colleagues for comment and approval before being “trialled” in
a small group of well-informed, consenting and interested patients. If the initial
“trial” is successful a further and larger group is studied. This allows new ideas
to be tested and new evidence gained but under well-organised, closely observed
and safe conditions.
An obvious example of important but uncomplicated information gathered
without scientific analysis is that there has been no randomised study to prove
that people who develop pneumonia will have a better outcome if they are treated
with antibiotics than with the treatment that was standard in the pre-antibiotic era.
Similarly anecdotal and historic evidence alone suggests that surgical removal of
an acutely inflamed appendix is likely to achieve a better outcome than the treatment that was used in pre-anaesthetic days without the intervention of surgery.
There has been no randomised trial to prove this.
In a more recent context the traditional and most effective known treatment
for people with an advanced cancer (usually a sarcoma) in a limb that was too
big for successful local surgical removal, was amputation. Anything less was
known to result in a high risk of local cancer recurrence. Experience in some
clinics now indicates that, rather than amputation, in most cases equally satisfactory results can be achieved by fi rst “reducing” the cancer with chemotherapy,
followed by local surgical removal of the remaining cancer (Chap. 8). This has
never been proven in a strictly randomised controlled study and, in fact, in some
clinics amputation is still regarded as the treatment of choice. Ideally it should be
studied in a properly organised trial but who would be prepared to ask patients to
enter a study in which the amputation of a limb depended on the luck of the draw?
Even if such co-operative patients could be found would this not be a rather select
group of people who would seem to be different to the rest of us?

23.2

Clinical Trials

With so many different ways of treating cancers in general it is important for
major treatment teams to continue to discover which method or methods of treatment are most likely to achieve best results. This will depend on many variable
factors such as the age and place of living and home circumstances of the patient,
the type of cancer and its degree of advancement, the range of treatments available, any potential side effects of treatment and the acceptance by the patient of
treatment options. In order to compare different treatments of different cancers
in different patients and different circumstances it is important for studies to be
continued in well-conducted clinical trials. In such trials, when it is not known
which option of treatment is best for patients who have a particular problem,
studies are conducted by experts who agree to compare treatment options.

23.2 Clinical Trials

If more than two treatment options are being studied, the trial is said to have
“more than two arms”. Such studies must be well considered and planned by
teams of experts and well conducted in a closely supervised fashion. Usually
such trials are best conducted in major teaching hospitals. This is the way much
progress has been made and will continue to be made in improving treatment
for patients with all types of cancer.
Patients should have the conditions of the trial fully described to them. They
should know why the trial is needed, why they have been selected as good patients
for the trial, what potential benefits may result, what are the potential problems,
if any, and the advantages or disadvantages of taking part in the trial (especially
any potential side effects). If patients are invited to take part in a clinical trial, it
is because the specialists cannot be sure that one treatment to be used is better
than another. However in taking part in a study to try to fi nd the answer, patients
will certainly be given closely supervised and highly skilled care. They must be
reassured that their entry into the trial is completely voluntary and they can withdraw at any time but their participation should help the expert teams discover just
which treatment achieves best results. This information will be important for the
future care of patients perhaps including members of their own family or friends
or even themselves.
Clinical trials of drugs under study are carried out in three phases:
Phase I is planned to determine the maximum well tolerated dose of a drug
that can be safely given. Usually beginning with small doses in a small number
of patients (usually two or three) and gradually increasing the dose in successive small groups of patients until a maximal well tolerated dose is apparent.
Phase II is planned to determine how effective the safe maximum dose determined is in treating a number of patients.
Phase III is a randomised trial of sufficient numbers of patients to compare
results of treatment with the new agent under study compared to results of treatment by standard best practice.

23.2.1 Ethics Approval
In medical practice and research there are different types of clinical trials but
all require informed consent from patients and approval of independent ethics
committees. To achieve best information, especially when dealing with relatively uncommon health problems, it is often necessary to organise multi-centre
studies. Multi-centre studies involve patients in a number of different hospitals
or institutions under the care of a number of different practitioners. Such trials
require strict ethical standards of data collection and privacy, approved by independent ethics committees as well as agreed methods of gathering, analysing
and publishing results.

313

