NAME OF CONDITION: BILIARY CANCER

I.

WHEN TO SUSPECT/ RECOGNIZE?
a) Introduction:
Bile duct cancer is a relatively uncommon cancer with annual incidence of 12/100,000 in Western studies. Recent trends show increasing incidence probably
due to better diagnostic techniques. Although biliary cancer can occur anywhere
in the biliary tract, 40-60% of them involve the hilum. 90% of these tumors are
well differentiated and mucin producing adenocarcinomas. The peak age for bile
duct cancer is in the seventh decade and more males are affected than females.
Patients usually presented with progressive jaundice, itching and weight loss.

b) Case definition:
For both situations of care (mentioned below*)
INCIDENCE OF THE CONDITION IN OUR COUNTRY
Worldwide incidence of biliary cancer is about 0.01% - 0.2% in large autopsy series.
However the Indian data is still awaited. Majority of the patients are elderly males
over sixty years.

II.

DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS
Majority of the patients with a hilar stricture harbor malignancy. However an
alternate diagnosis is possible in 10-15% of patients.
The differential diagnoses should consider gall bladder carcinoma, Mirizzi’s
syndrome and Idiopathic benign focal stenosis of the bile duct.

III.

PREVENTION AND COUNSELING
Most of the cases occur sporadically and a clear cut etiological agent is not indicated
in biliary tract malignancy. However, a high incidence is noted in patients with
congenital biliary cystic disease (15-20%). A diagnosis of such a condition should
warrant surgical treatment, so as to prevent the development of biliary malignancy
in future. However, the benefit of surgery done after 20 yrs of age is questionable.
Stringent measures of radiation protection is to be offered to the workers in the
nuclear energy sector, since radioisotopes used commercially like Thorium, Radon
etc are thought to be associated with the development of cholangiocarcinoma.

4

IV.

OPTIMAL DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA, INVESTIGATIONS,
TREATMENT & REFERRAL CRITERIA
The early symptoms of cholangiocarcinoma are non specific. Anorexia weight loss
and pruritus are most common. 90% of the patients come to attention with painless
jaundice. Clinical examination reveals jaundice and may also find enlarged firm liver.
Diagnostic criteria
Abdominal ultrasound examination which reveals dilated intrahepatic biliary radicles
with a collapsed gall bladder and extrahepatic bile duct must be suspected to be a
case of hilar obstruction unless proven otherwise. Possible differential diagnosis of
gall bladder cancer or Mirizzi syndrome must be considered, and further evaluation
must be carried out by a contrast enhanced CT scan or MRI, and the expertise of a
tertiary care center taken at this stage.
Diagnosis is based on radiological criteria and pathological confirmation is not
mandatory prior to surgery in resectable lesions. Histopathological proof can only be
achieved by endoscopic brush cytology or EUS guided needle biopsy and is not
recommended prior to resection when the lesion is deemed resectable.
Histological confirmation is mandatory prior to chemotherapy or radiotherapy.
Investigations:
MDCT can give valuable information regarding the level of obstruction, vascular
invasion, and presence of atrophy/hypertrophy complex of liver lobes.
MRCP is the investigation of choice for obtaining a cholangiogram.
ERCP or PTC allows bile sampling for cytology, which is positive in about 30% of
cases. Combined brush cytology and biopsy specimens increase yield to 40–70%.
Negative cytology from brushings does not exclude malignancy.
Treatment:
Prior radiological evaluation of resectability and patient’s performance status
determine the treatment.
In Resectable hilar cholangiocarcinoma standard curative surgery entails
hemihepatectomy with caudate lobectomy and extrahepatic bile duct excision with
regional lymphadenectomy.
Aggressive resections with combined portal vein resection to achieve RO resection
may be considered in selected cases.
Preoperative Biliary drainage may salvage segments of hepatic parenchyma and
reduce risk of postoperative liver failure.
Portal vein embolization to increase the remnant liver volume in patients with postresection volumes are less than 25%.
Role of adjuvant therapy after resection remains controversial; however
chemotherapy or chemo radiation may be tried
5

Unresectable tumors require endoscopic or percutaneous biliary drainage or
stenting. Surgical bilio-enteric bypass may be required. Palliative Gemcitabine based
chemotherapy may be considered along with supportive care.
Liver transplantation is indicated at selected centres, for patients with early stage
cholangiocarcinoma and anatomically unresectable lesions, but this approach should
not be offered outside the scope of clinical trials.

*Situation 1: At Secondary Hospital/ Non-Metro situation: Optimal Standards of
Treatment in Situations where technology and resources are limited
a) Clinical Diagnosis
Cholangiocarcinoma is to be suspected in an elderly patient with symptoms of
pruritus ,painless and progressive jaundice.

b) Investigations:
MDCT
MRCP

c) Treatment:
Biliary drainage and supportive care with or without chemoradiotherapy for
unresectable and metastatic disease. This condition is not however suitable for
treatment at a secondary hospital, and must be referred to a tertiary care center.
Standard Operating procedure

a. In Patient
b. Out Patient
c. Day Care
d) Referral criteria:
Biliary obstruction with undilated gall bladder or extrahepatic bile ducts must be regarded as
hilar obstruction unless proven otherwise. These patients must be referred for evaluation and
management to a tertiary care center.
Patients requiring major liver resections resection or portal vein resection.

6

*Situation 2: At Super Specialty Facility in Metro location where higher-end
technology is available
a) Clinical Diagnosis:
Cholangiocarcinoma is to be suspected in an elderly patient with symptoms of
pruritus ,painless and progressive jaundice.

b) Investigations:
MDCT, MRCP
EUS, Endoscopic/Percutaneous cholangioscopy,

c) Treatment:
Hepatectomy with caudate lobectomy and excision of the extrahepatic Biliary tree with
regional lymphadenectomy in resectable disease.
Extended resections with portal vein resection and reconstruction where portal vein in
involved.
Biliary drainage and supportive care with or without chemoradiotherapy for
unresectable and metastatic disease.
Standard Operating procedure

a. In Patient
b. Out Patient
c. Day Care
d) Referral criteria:
Patients considered candidates for liver transplantation may be referred to transplant
units.

V.

WHO DOES WHAT? and TIMELINES
a. Doctor
b. Nurse
c. Technician
7

VI.

FURTHER READING / REFERENCES

1.

Khan SA, Thomas HC, Davidson BR, Taylor-Robinson SD. Cholangiocarcinoma. Lancet 2005; 366: 1303–1314.

2.

Neuhaus P, Jonas S, Settmacher U et al. Surgical management of proximal bile duct cancer: extended right
lobe resection increases resectability and radicality. Langenbecks Arch Surg 2003; 388: 194–200.

3.

Killeen RP, Harte S, Maguire D, Malone DE. Achievable outcomes in the management of proximal
cholangiocarcinoma: an update prepared using ‘evidence-based practice’ techniques. Abdom Imaging
2008; 33: 54–57.

4.

de Groen PC, Gores GJ, LaRusso NF et al. Biliary tract cancers. N Engl J Med 1999; 341: 1368–1378.

5.

Heimbach JK, Gores GJ, Haddock MG et al. Liver transplantation for unresectable perihilar
cholangiocarcinoma. Semin Liver Dis 2004; 24: 201–207.

6.

McMasters KM, Tuttle TM, Leach SD et al. Neoadjuvant chemoradiation for extrahepatic
cholangiocarcinoma. Am J Surg 1997; 174: 605–609.

7.

Laurent S, Monsaert E, Boterberg T et al. Feasibility of radiotherapy with concomitant gemcitabine and
oxaliplatin in locally advanced pancreatic cancer and distal cholangiocarcinoma: a prospective dose ﬁnding
phase I-II study. Ann Oncol 2009; 20: 1369–1374.

8.

Schoppmeyer K, Miethe S, Wiedmann M et al. Radiochemotherapy followed by gemcitabine and
capecitabine in extrahepatic bile duct cancer: a phase I/II trial. Am J Clin Oncol 2006; 29: 576–582.

9.

Glimelius B, Hoffman K, Sjoden PO et al. Chemotherapy improves survival and quality of life in advanced
pancreatic and biliary cancer. Ann Oncol 1996; 7: 593–600.

10. Eckel F, Schmid RM. Chemotherapy in advanced biliary tract carcinoma: a pooled analysis of clinical trials.
Br J Cancer 2007; 96: 896–902.
11. Valle JW, Wasan HS, Palmer DD et al. Gemcitabine with or without cisplatin in patients (pts) with advanced
or metastatic biliary tract cancer (ABC): results of a multicenter, randomized phase III trial (the UK ABC-02
trial). Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2009; 27: Abstr 4503.
12. Fuller CD, Dang ND, Wang SJ et al. Image-guided intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IG-IMRT) for biliary
adenocarcinomas: initial clinical results. Radiother Oncol 2009; 92: 249–254.
13. Castaldo ET, Wright Pinson C. Liver transplantation for non-hepatocellular carcinoma malignancy. HPB
(Oxford) 2007; 9: 98–103.
14. Ortner ME, Caca K, Berr F et al. Successful photodynamic therapy for nonresectable cholangiocarcinoma: a
randomized prospective study. Gastroenterology 2003; 125: 1355–1363.
15. Zoepf T, Jakobs R, Arnold JC et al. Palliation of nonresectable bile duct cancer: improved survival after
photodynamic therapy. Am J Gastroenterol 2005; 100: 2426–2430.

8

16. Japanese Society of Biliary Surgery. Classiﬁcation of biliary tract carcinoma. Second English edition. Tokyo:
Kanehara; 2004.
17. Takada T, Miyazaki M, Miyakawa S, Tsukada K, Nagino M, Kondo S, et al. Purpose, use, and preparation of
clinical practice guidelines for the management of biliary tract and ampullary carcinomas. J Hepatobiliary
Pancreat Surg 2008;15:2–6
18. Jarnagin WR, Fong Y, DeMatteo RP, Gonen M, Burke EC, Bodniewicz BS J, et al. Staging, resectability, and
outcome in 225 patients with hilar cholangiocarcinoma. Ann Surg 2001;234: 507–17.
19. Nagino M, Kamiya J, Arai T, Nishio H, Ebata T, Nimura Y. “Anatomic” right hepatic trisectionectomy
(extended right hepatectomy) with caudate lobectomy for hilar cholangiocarcinoma. Ann Surg
2006;243:28–32.
20. Makuuchi M, Thai BL, Takayasu K, Takayama T, Kosuge T, Gunvén P, et al. Preoperative portal embolization
to increase safety of major hepatectomy for hilar bile duct carcinoma: a preliminary report. Surgery
1990;107:521–7
21. Nagino M, Kamiya J, Nishio H, Ebata T, Arai T, Nimura Y. Two hundred forty consecutive portal vein
embolizations before extended hepatectomy for biliary cancer: surgical outcome and long-term follow-up.
Ann Surg 2006;243:364–72.
22. Kawasaki S, Imamura H, Kobayashi A, Noike T, Miwa S, Miyagawa S. Results of surgical resection for
patients with hilar bile duct cancer: application of extended hepatectomy after biliary drainage and
hemihepatic portal vein embolization. Ann Surg 2003;238:84–92
23. Miyazaki M, Ito H, Nakagawa K, Ambiru S, Shimizu H, Okaya T, et al. Parenchyma-preserving hepatectomy
in the surgical treatment of hilar cholangiocarcinoma. J Am Coll Surg 1999;189:575–83.
24. Nimura Y, Kamiya J, Kondo S, Nagino M, Uesaka K, Oda K, et al. Aggressive preoperative management and
extended surgery for hilar cholangiocarcinoma: Nagoya experience. J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg
2000;7:155–62
25. Hemming AW, Kim RD, Mekeel KL, Fujita S, Reed AI, Foley DP, et al. Portal vein resection for hilar
cholangiocarcinoma. Am Surg 2006;72:599–604.

9

RESOURCES REQUIRED FOR ONE PATIENT / PROCEDURE (PATIENT WEIGHT 60
KGS)
(Units to be specified for human resources, investigations, drugs and
consumables and equipment. Quantity to also be specified)
Situation HUMAN
RESOURCES
1
2

INVESTIGATIONS DRUGS &
CONSUMABLES

EQUIPMENT

10

NAME OF CONDITION: Breast Cancer
I.

WHEN TO SUSPECT/ RECOGNIZE?
Introduction:
Breast cancer is the commonest cancer among women worldwide. In recent years,
breast cancer has emerged as the commonest female malignancy in the majority of
Asian countries. In India, breast cancer incidence has overtaken cervical cancer incidence
in most urban registries. (1) This is attributed to several factors including diet, lifestyle,
lowered fertility with increasing age at first childbirth, obesity etc.
Case definition:
For both situations of care (mentioned below*)
Histopathologically or cytopathological diagnosis of invasive or non invasive cancer of
tissue obtained from breast.

II.

INCIDENCE OF THE CONDITION IN OUR COUNTRY
According to Globocan 2008, with an estimated 1.38 million new breast cancer cases
diagnosed each year, female breast cancer is the second most common cancer in the
world and the most common cancer among women, accounting for 4,58,000 cancer
deaths per year. (2) In India, breast cancer incidence varies from urban (30 per 100,000
population per year) to rural (5 per 100000 population per year) areas. (1)

III.

DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS

11

Mammary dysplasia (fibrocystic condition of the breast), fibroadenoma, intraductal
papilloma, lipoma, fat necrosis, cystosarcoma phylloides, breast abscess and others
depending on the clinical context.

IV.

PREVENTION AND COUNSELING
Factors Associated With Increased Risk of Breast Cancer

1. Hormone replacement therapy
2. Obesity
3. Lack of exercise
4. Later age at first child birth
5. Lack of Breast-feeding
6.

Family

history

of

breast

and

ovarian

cancers

A lactational period of 6 months or more is associated with decreased risk of breast cancer.
Similarly, having the first live birth after age 30 doubles the risk compared to having first live
birth at age less than 25 years. (3) Gaining weight after menopause can increase a woman's
risk. A recent study found that putting on 9.9 kg (22 lbs) after menopause increases the risk
of developing breast cancer by 18%. (4) Hormone replacement therapy used by women
attaining menopause has also been associated with increased risk of breast cancer. (5)
While the societal trend towards reduced fertility is clearly non-modifiable it is possible to
educate young Indians about the appropriate age to initiate childbearing (perhaps best
before the age of 30 years) and the importance of breast feeding, not only for the child but
also the woman.

Obesity is the other potentially modifiable risk factor that requires
12

multidimensional preventive attention with major health benefits that extend beyond
cancer prevention. Societal and public health intervention in these areas has the potential to
abrogate much of the increase in breast cancer incidence that has been observed in the
West.

V.

OPTIMAL DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA, INVESTIGATIONS,
TREATMENT & REFERRAL CRITERIA

A number of international guidelines exist in order to ensure uniformity and quality in the
delivery of care to patients with breast cancer. (6-9) The majority of guidelines have been
developed in the context of evidence and clinical practice in the Western world. There is
little representation from developing countries, if any, in the expert panels that formulate
these guidelines. Clinical practice in developing countries, however, continues to be largely
guided by these guidelines since they are based on high quality evidence with expert
appraisal. Many of these guidelines are not literally applicable to developing countries
because of constraints on resources and/or expertise.

*Situation 1: At Secondary Hospital/ Non-Metro situation: Optimal Standards of
Treatment in Situations where technology and resources are limited
a. Clinical Diagnosis:
Pathology guidelines:
·

Histopathological diagnosis of breast cancer by a biopsy (prior to neaoadjuvant
chemotherapy, if planned) or on the surgical specimen is a must. In the latter situation
13

in operable breast cancer, pre-operative establishment of diagnosis by fine needle
aspiration is appropriate and acceptable.
·

The essential elements of a histopathological report include the subtype, grade,
adequacy of margins, axillary nodal status and immunohistochemically determined ER,
PgR and CerbB2 (HER2)
Immunohistochemistry (IHC) facility not mandatory in all centres that treat breast
cancer, but referral affiliation with a central laboratory for obtaining this information in
all patients is mandatory. The ASCO/CAP guidelines should be followed for reporting on
breast cancer specimens. (10, 11) ER and PR are important for prognostication and
hormonal therapy of breast cancer. HER2 is important for guiding the choice of systemic
HER2 targeted therapy in primary breast cancer, if the latter is feasible. Knowledge of
HER2 status also has some prognostic value and predictive capability for anthracycline
benefit. [5, 6, 7, 12]

b. Investigations:
Radiology guidelines
All centres treating breast cancer should have facilities for plain chest radiograph and
ultrasound scanning of the abdomen. However, such centres need not necessarily have
facilities for breast imaging including mammography, breast sonography and other
advanced imaging techniques. Mastectomy is an appropriate surgical modality in such
centres. Standard staging in locally advanced breast cancer includes chest radiograph or

14

CT scan of chest, USG Abdomen or CECT abdomen, and bone scan. Metastatic workup is
not required in clinically early stage breast cancer.

c. Treatment:
Surgical guidelines
Modified radical mastectomy (MRM) with axillary clearance is an appropriate surgical
option for all stages of operable breast cancer and those who become operable after
neoadjuvant treatment. The long-term safety and quality of life gains with breast
conserving surgery have been proven in high quality studies and this procedure should
be offered to patients who are eligible to receive it. Thus eligible and desirous patients
should be referred to an appropriate higher centre for breast conservation.
A modified radical mastectomy involves removal of the entire involved breast using an
elliptical skin incision, including the skin overlying the tumor and the nipple-areola
complex with the underlying pectoralis fascia, sparing both the pectoralis muscles, along
with the removal of at least levels I and II axillary lymph nodes. Level III axillary lymph
nodes should always be excised in large tumors, node positive axilla and locally
advanced breast cancers post neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
1. Surgery after Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT)
The standard surgery for patients with LABC after NACT is MRM.
2. Full axillary dissection is the standard of care

15

A full axillary clearance that includes level III lymph nodes be undertaken as a standard
procedure in breast cancer surgery in developing countries. There is relative abundance
of large, non-screen detected cancers and locally advanced breast cancers in these
regions with high possibility of axillary nodal involvement. (13) It needs to be noted that
extensive axillary procedures could lead to increased incidence of adverse effects like
shoulder stiffness and arm edema. (14)
3. Depot hydroxyprogesterone prior to surgery for primary breast cancer
The adoption of pre-operative injection depot hydroxyprogesterone as a standard of
care in patients with operable breast cancer is not currently ready for routine practice.
There is a recent large randomised trial and other reports suggesting a positive benefit in
node positive and large tumours but replication these findings is needed. (15)

Radiation therapy guidelines:
1. Use of post mastectomy radiation
Post Mastectomy radiation should be used in all patients with >5 cm pathological
tumour size and/or 4 or more positive nodes in axilla. (16)
2. Use of radiation in patients with 1-3 positive axillary nodes after mastectomy
Among post mastectomy patients with 1-3 positive nodes, patients with additional poor
risk features (young age, vessel invasion, inadequate axillary lymph node dissection)
should receive radiotherapy. A subgroup analysis from the Danish study that showed a
survival benefit in these (1-3 node positive) patients equivalent to those with more than
16

3 involved nodes involved and other studies which have tried to analyse specific risk
factors in these patients. (17, 18)
3. Use of appropriate megavoltage machines for radiation therapy may be used.
Linear accelerator or Cobalt60 (Co60) unit is a valid option for radiotherapy after
mastectomy when such treatment is indicated. [19]
4. Use of axillary nodal radiation after surgery.
There is no routine indication of using axillary nodal irradiation after adequate surgical
clearance. [20] Such radiation can be used in rare instances in patients with miscroscopic
or gross residual cancer in the axilla after surgical dissection.

Systemic Therapy in Breast Cancer
The following suggestions are a framework of suggestions in order to ensure optimal
delivery of care to the majority of breast cancer patients presenting to all levels of the
healthcare system in India. The panel recognizes that departures from guidelines may be
required in individual cases in response to the specifics.
I.

Adjuvant chemotherapy
Adjuvant chemotherapy has become an important component of breast cancer
management in the last 30 years. Robust evidence for its use has been generated in
successive reviews of individual patient data by the Early Breast Cancer Trialists
Cooperative Group. [21]
a. Chemotherapy after surgery may be omitted in the following group of patients
who may not benefit from the use of adjuvant chemotherapy. Such patients

17

could receive adjuvant hormone therapy alone. Adjuvant chemotherapy should
be considered in all other patients who have no contra-indications to its use.
i. Low grade tumors with strong estrogen and progesterone receptor
positivity, without lympho vascular space invasion which are ≤ 2cm and
node negative in post menopausal women. [8]
1. Optimal Adjuvant chemotherapy
Anthracycline based chemotherapy is the backbone of adjuvant chemotherapy[21]
·

In node negative early breast cancer patients 6 cycles of anthracycline based
chemotherapy should be used.

·

In those with positive lymph nodes or locally advanced breast cancer, anthracycline
and taxane based chemotherapy given sequentially is preferred. [22, 23]. If taxane
based chemotherapy is not feasible or contraindicated, 6 cycles of anthracycline
based chemotherapy is an acceptable alternative

·

CMF chemotherapy may be considered as an acceptable alternative when
anthracycline based chemotherapy is not possible due to feasibility issues or contraindications.

·

Ovarian ablation (surgical or radiation) may be considered in certain patients, in
hormone receptor positive patients.

2. Chemotherapy for LABC
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy is given with the primary aim of making inoperable tumors
operable in locally advanced breast cancer

18

·

The optimal number of chemotherapy cycles is usually 3 to 6 cycles of neoadjuvant
chemotherapy. [24, 25]

·

Anthracycline and taxane based chemotherapy is preferred. [26, 27] Sandwich
therapy (chemotherapy followed by surgery followed by more chemotherapy) is
widely practiced and is appropriate. Anthracycline based chemotherapy alone may
also be used when taxane based chemotherapy not possible or contraindicated.

·

In HER 2 positive patients trastuzumab may be added to chemotherapy in the
neoadjuvant setting, if feasible. [28, 29] Despite randomized evidence indicating its
cardiac safety in the neoadjuvant setting, concomitant use of anthracyclines and
trastuzumab is not widely practiced. Taxanes (paclitaxel or docetaxel) are the
preferred concomitant partner for trastuzumab.

·

Neoadjuvant hormone therapy may be considered in post menopausal women with
strong hormone receptor positivity. [30] Aromatase inhibitors are preferred over
tamoxifen in this setting. [31, 32] The optimal duration of treatment is not well
defined but may vary from 4-8 months or until after best response. [33]

II.

Adjuvant Hormonal Therapy
Adjuvant hormonal therapy significantly improves survival in both pre and post
menopausal women expressing hormone receptors. [21] It should be given to all
patients expressing any degree of estrogen and or progesterone receptor positivity. The
optimal duration of hormone therapy is 5 years. [8]

19

·

Premenopausal women should receive tamoxifen for 5 years.[8] Addition of ovarian
suppression to tamoxifen till now not proven to be of additional benefit.

·

Post menopausal women aromatase inhibitors is preferred either for 5 years or as switch
therapy with 2-3 years of tamoxifen. [34, 35]

·

Tamoxifen for 5 years in post menopausal women is an acceptable alternative to
aromatase inhibitors. [21]

III.

Adjuvant Targeted Therapy

Adjuvant targeted therapy is currently recommended with trastuzumab in patients with
HER2 positive disease either after completion of chemotherapy or starting with the taxane
component of the chemotherapy regimen. This is based on the proven benefits of adjuvant
trastuzumab in disease-free and overall survival. American Society of Clinical Oncology and
the College of American Pathologists (ASCO/CAP) guidelines suggest the criteria of >30%
intense and complete staining (IHC) or FISH amplification >2.2 for HER2 positivity. [11] The
present standard is to give trastuzumab for 1 year. [36, 37] There is also some evidence for
the benefit of shorter duration (9-12 weeks) of adjuvant trastuzumab therapy and this an
acceptable alternative in view of its wider financial feasibility. [38] When not feasible , the
use of chemotherapy (preferable anthracycline based) without traztuzumab is an acceptable
alternative in patients with HER 2 overexpressing tumours.
Patients should be routinely screened for cardiac contraindications to trastuzumab before
starting this therapy and the cardiac function should be routinely monitored every 3-4
months using echocardiography or MUGA scan during this treatment.
20

Follow-up of patients after primary treatment:
1. Need for follow-up after primary treatment.
At present regular post-treatment follow up of all patients with primary breast cancer
should be considered. It is however notable that there is lack of evidence from
randomized trials supporting any particular follow-up sequence or protocol. [39, 40]
2. Use of investigative modalities during follow-up.
An annual to biennial mammogram is the only routinely required investigation during
follow-up in patients who are asymptomatic and have normal physical examination. This
is based on evidence from two randomized trials that failed to prove any benefit from
more extensive investigations of asymptomatic patients during follow up care. [41, 42]

Standard Operating procedure: Not applicable

VII.

Referral criteria:

Patients should be referred to a higher center (or another center) in the following
situations.
a) The facility of treatment is not available at the treating center – e.g. breast conservation,
advanced radiation delivery techniques if necessary, diagnostic dilemmas etc.
b) The waiting list of patients for a particular treatment or therapy is excessively long
(please see the time frames stated in this document)

*Situation 2: At Super Specialty Facility in Metro location where higher-end
technology is available

21

a) Clinical Diagnosis:
Pathology guidelines:
1. Histopathological diagnosis of breast cancer by a biopsy (prior to neaoadjuvant
chemotherapy, if planned) or on the surgical specimen is a must. In the latter situation
in operable breast cancer, pre-operative establishment of diagnosis by fine needle
aspiration is appropriate and acceptable.
2. The essential elements of a histopathological report include the subtype, grade,
adequacy of margins , axillary nodal status and immunohistochemically determined ER,
PgR and CerbB2 (HER2).
Immunohistochemistry (IHC) facility for dtermination of ER, PR and HER2 should be
available. Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) for HER2 amplification should also be
available at tertiary hospitals. The ASCO/CAP guidelines should be followed for
reporting. [10, 11] ER and PR are important for prognostication and hormonal therapy of
breast cancer. HER2 is important for guiding the choice of systemic HER2 targeted
therapy in primary breast cancer, if the latter is feasible. There is also some prognostic
and predictive capability (for anthracycline benefit) of HER2 testing. [12] In cases with
equivocal (2+) HER2 score on IHC, fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) should be done.
[11]
3. Incorporation of multigene assays in clinical decision making:
With the available evidence and lack of validation in prospective randomized trials
versus conventional decision-making, routine incorporation of multigene assays like
22

Recurrence Score (RS, Oncotype DXTM) in clinical decision making including
prognostication and prediction of chemotherapy benefit is not standard. [43]

VIII. Investigations:
Radiology guidelines
These centers should have facilities for mammography, local breast sonography and
other advanced imaging techniques (CT scan, radionuclide bone scan etc). Magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) of the breast and positron emission tomography (PET) scans
are being increasingly used in the management of breast cancers. While there may be
specific clinical situations that justify the use of these techniques, their routine use in the
management of breast cancer is not recommended due to lack of robust evidence of
benefit.
1. Local imaging prior to surgery
Routine use of mammography and/or breast ultrasound in the evaluation of cases with
early stage operable breast cancer should be considered in order to facilitate surgical
decisions. Addition of diagnostic breast ultrasound to mammography increases the
accuracy and diagnostic yield, especially in patients with dense breasts and asymmetric
densities, in addition to providing image guidance for diagnostic procedures such as
biopsies. [44]
2. Routine breast MRI prior to breast conserving surgery

23

Routine use of breast MRI prior to BCT is not recommended. Evidence from randomized
trial evidence has revealed a lack of benefit from routine preoperative breast MRI and
has also suggested a high rate of false positives with this technique. [45]
3. Staging for locally advanced breast cancer
Standard staging in locally advanced breast cancer includes chest radiograph or CT scan
of chest, ultrasound or CT scan of the abdomen and bone scan. Metastatic workup is not
routinely required in clinically early stage breast cancer.
4. PET-CT for routine staging in early and locally advanced breast cancer
Routine use of PET or PET-CT scanning for pre- treatment staging assessment of patients
with early or locally advanced breast cancer is not recommended. [46]

b) Treatment:

1. Mastectomy with axillary clearance in breast cancer.
Modified radical mastectomy (MRM) with axillary clearance is an appropriate surgical option
for all stages of operable breast cancer and those who become operable after neoadjuvant
treatment. A modified radical mastectomy involves removal of the entire involved breast
using an elliptical skin incision, including the skin overlying the tumor and the nipple-areola
complex with the underlying pectoralis fascia, sparing both the pectoralis muscles, along
with the removal of at least levels I and II axillary lymph nodes. Level III axillary lymph nodes
should always be excised in large tumors, node positive axilla and locally advanced breast
cancers post neoadjuvant chemotherapy.'

24

2. Use of breast conservation therapy (BCT) in developing countries
Breast conserving surgery should be considered for all eligible patients in developing
countries. There is overwhelming evidence for the equivalent safety and efficacy of BCT
compared to mastectomy in appropriately selected patients. [47, 48] Tumors in developing
parts of the world are most often not screen detected, larger, and there is variable
availability of expertise for undertaking breast conservation [49]. Such patients should be
referred from secondary to tertiary centers with available expertise and infrastructure for
breast conservation .Communication of the axillary dissection with the breast cavity should
be avoided as far as possible. Separate incisions prevent transfer of seroma fluid between
the lumpectomy and axillary areas and improve the cosmetic outcome. [22]
3. Use of oncoplastic procedures
Oncoplastic procedures should be performed only in specialized centres with
multidisciplinary expertise in these techniques. [50]
4. Defining adequacy of margins in primary breast surgery
Margins after BCT should be technically free. Guidelines have variously defined an
adequate margin in breast conservation from 1mm to 10 mm or more. [51, 52]
Interestingly, the rate of finding IDC in the revised specimens has been in the range of
only 30-40%. [53] Although there are conflicting reports, it is evident that obtaining a
clean negative margin is desirable.
5. Surgery after neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT)

25

The standard surgery for patients with LABC is MRM after NACT. [54] In selected
patients, BCT can be considered. The initial location and extent of tumor should be
marked using techniques like biopsy scar, clips, tattoos etc. in patients being planned for
NACT. This facilitates ease of subsequent surgery and has a bearing on local control. [55,
56] It should be noted that breast conservation is a valid option in selected cases of
large or locally advanced breast cancer who achieve excellent response after NACT. [57,
58] Expert judgment should be applied during the use of this procedure in patients with
large and locally advanced breast cancer.
6. Full axillary dissection as a routine standard of care
A full axillary clearance that includes level III lymph nodes should be undertaken as a
standard procedure in breast cancer surgery in developing countries. There is relative
abundance of large, non-screen detected cancers and locally advanced breast cancers in
these regions with high possibility of axillary nodal involvement. [49] However, it needs
to be noted that extensive axillary procedures could lead to increased incidence of
adverse effects like shoulder stiffness and arm edema. [59]
7. Sentinel lymph node procedure and other axillary sampling in breast cancer patients
Sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) could be considered in carefully selected patients
with early breast cancer in clinically negative axilla in centres that have this expertise.
[60, 61] SLNB is not routinely recommended in lieu of formal axillary dissection view of
higher degree of nodal positivity in this country. However, centres who have
standardized this procedure in their institutions with documented results and less than
5-10% false negative rates, may consider this option in highly selected patients with
26

early breast cancer. Anatomically defined sampling of lower level axillary lymph nodes
could also be considered an alternative form of reduced axillary surgery in centres with
this expertise and with the same caveats as for SLNB. [62, 63]
8. Depot hydroxyprogesterone prior to surgery for primary breast cancer
The adoption of pre-operative injection depot hydroxyprogesterone as a standard of
care in patients with operable breast cancer is not recommended. There is a recent large
randomised trial and other reports suggesting a benefit in node positive tumours but
replication of these findings in other studies is needed for routine

care

recommendation. [15, 64, 65, 66]

Radiation therapy guidelines:
1. Use of post mastectomy radiation
Post Mastectomy radiation should be used in all patients with >5 cm pathological tumor
size and/or 4 or more positive nodes in axilla. [16]
2. Use of radiation in patients with 1-3 positive axillary nodes after mastectomy
Among post mastectomy patients with 1-3 positive nodes, patients with additional poor
risk features (young age, vessel invasion, inadequate axillary lymph node dissection)
should receive radiotherapy. A subgroup analysis from the Danish study that showed a
survival benefit in these (1-3 node positive) patients equivalent to those with more than
3 involved nodes involved and other studies which have tried to analyse specific risk
factors in these patients. [17, 18]

27

3. Use of radiotherapy after breast conservation
Radiotherapy to the entire breast should be given to all patients with breast
conservation. Whole breast radiotherapy should be followed by boost to the tumour bed
by any suitable technique available at the center.
4. Use of appropriate megavoltage machines for radiation therapy may be used.
Linear accelerator or Cobalt60 (Co60) unit are valid options for radiotherapy after
mastectomy when such treatment is indicated. (19)
5. Use of tumor bed boost after BCT.
Tumour bed boost should be given to all patients after whole breast radiotherapy, based
on randomized evidence that its use improves local failure rates. [67, 68] Since no boost
technique has been shown to be better than others (69), any reasonable

locally

available technique could be used. A higher boost dose is unlikely to compensate for the
deleterious effect of a positive margin.
6. Use of axillary nodal radiation after surgery.
Use of axillary nodal irradiation after adequate surgical clearance is not routinely
recommended. [20] Such radiation can be used in rare instances in patients with
microscopic or gross residual cancer in the axilla after surgery.
7. Use of accelerated partial breast radiation (APBI).
APBI should be considered in a highly selected group of patients with low risk features
(such as age > 65 years, pathological tumour size < 2cm, and negative axillary nodes)
which is consistent with the recent ASTRO guidelines. [70] There has been recent
28

interest in using brachytherapy as the sole modality of radiation to decrease the
treatment time and toxicities without compromising control. [71, 72]

Systemic Therapy Guidelines
The following suggestions are a framework of suggestions in order to ensure optimal
delivery of care to the majority of breast cancer patients presenting to all levels of the
healthcare system in India. The panel recognizes that departures from guidelines may be
required in individual cases in response to the specifics.
IV.

Adjuvant chemotherapy
Adjuvant chemotherapy has become an important component of breast cancer
management in the last 30 years. Robust evidence for its use has been generated in
successive reviews of individual patient data by the Early Breast Cancer Trialists
Cooperative Group. [21]
a. Chemotherapy after surgery may be omitted in the following group of patients
who may not benefit from the use of adjuvant chemotherapy. Such patients
could receive adjuvant hormone therapy alone. Adjuvant chemotherapy should
be considered in all other patients who have no contra-indications to its use.
i. Low grade tumors with strong estrogen and progesterone receptor
positivity, without lympho vascular space invasion which are ≤ 2cm and
node negative in post menopausal women. [8]

3. Optimal Adjuvant chemotherapy

29

Anthracycline based chemotherapy is the backbone of adjuvant chemotherapy [21]
·

In node negative early breast cancer patients 6 cycles of anthracycline based
chemotherapy should be used.

·

In those with positive lymph nodes or locally advanced breast cancer, anthracycline
and taxane based chemotherapy given sequentially is preferred. [22, 23]. If taxane
based chemotherapy is not feasible or contraindicated, 6 cycles of anthracycline
based chemotherapy is an acceptable alternative

·

CMF chemotherapy may be considered as an acceptable alternative when
anthracycline based chemotherapy is not possible due to feasibility issues or contraindications.

·

Ovarian ablation (surgical or radiation) may be considered in certain patients, in
hormone receptor positive patients.

4. Chemotherapy for LABC
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy is given with the primary aim of making inoperable tumors
operable in locally advanced breast cancer
·

The optimal number of chemotherapy cycles is usually 3 to 6 cycles of neoadjuvant
chemotherapy. [24, 25]

·

Anthracycline and taxane based chemotherapy is preferred. [26, 27] Sandwich
therapy (chemotherapy followed by surgery followed by more chemotherapy) is
widely practiced and is appropriate. Anthracycline based chemotherapy alone may
also be used when taxane based chemotherapy not possible or contraindicated.

30

·

In HER 2 positive patients trastuzumab may be added to chemotherapy in the
neoadjuvant setting, if feasible. [28, 29] Despite randomized evidence indicating its
cardiac safety in the neoadjuvant setting, concomitant use of anthracyclines and
trastuzumab is not widely practiced. Taxanes (paclitaxel or docetaxel) are the
preferred concomitant partner for trastuzumab.

·

Neoadjuvant hormone therapy may be considered in post menopausal women with
strong hormone receptor positivity. [30] Aromatase inhibitors are preferred over
tamoxifen in this setting. [31, 32] The optimal duration of treatment is not well
defined but may vary from 4-8 months or until after best response. [33]

V.

Adjuvant Hormonal Therapy
Adjuvant hormonal therapy significantly improves survival in both pre and post
menopausal women expressing hormone receptors. [21] It should be given to all
patients expressing any degree of estrogen and or progesterone receptor positivity. The
optimal duration of hormone therapy is 5 years. [8]

·

Premenopausal women should receive tamoxifen for 5 years.[8] Addition of ovarian
suppression to tamoxifen till now not proven to be of additional benefit.

·

Post menopausal women aromatase inhibitors is preferred either for 5 years or as switch
therapy with 2-3 years of tamoxifen. [34, 35]

·

Tamoxifen for 5 years in post menopausal women is an acceptable alternative to
aromatase inhibitors. [21]

VI.

Adjuvant Targeted Therapy

31

Adjuvant targeted therapy is currently recommended with trastuzumab in patients with
HER2 positive disease either after completion of chemotherapy or starting with the taxane
component of the chemotherapy regimen. This is based on the proven benefits of adjuvant
trastuzumab in disease-free and overall survival. American Society of Clinical Oncology and
the College of American Pathologists (ASCO/CAP) guidelines suggest the criteria of >30%
intense and complete staining (IHC) or FISH amplification >2.2 for HER2 positivity. [11] The
present standard is to give trastuzumab for 1 year. [36, 37] There is also some evidence for
the benefit of shorter duration (9-12 weeks) of adjuvant trastuzumab therapy and this an
acceptable alternative in view of its wider financial feasibility. [38] When not feasible , the
use of chemotherapy (preferable anthracycline based) without traztuzumab is an acceptable
alternative in patients with HER 2 overexpressing tumours.
Patients should be routinely screened for cardiac contraindications to trastuzumab before
starting this therapy and the cardiac function should be routinely monitored every 3-4
months using echocardiography or MUGA scan during this treatment.
Follow-up of patients after primary treatment:
1. Need for follow-up after primary treatment.
At present regular post-treatment follow up of all patients with primary breast cancer
should be considered. It is however notable that there is lack of evidence from
randomized trials supporting any particular follow-up sequence or protocol. [39, 40]
2. Use of investigative modalities during follow-up.
An annual to biennial mammogram is the only routinely required investigation during
follow-up in patients who are asymptomatic and have normal physical examination. This
32

is based on evidence from two randomized trials that failed to prove any benefit from
more extensive investigations of asymptomatic patients during follow up care. [41, 42]
Standard Operating procedure: Not Applicable

a. In Patient
b. Out Patient
c. Day Care
c) Referral criteria:
Patients should be referred to a higher center (or another center) in the following
situations.
1. The facility of treatment is not available at the treating center – e.g. breast
conservation, advanced radiation delivery techniques if necessary, diagnostic
dilemmas etc.

2. The waiting list of patients for a particular treatment or therapy is excessively
long (please see the time frames stated in this document)

33

VI.

WHO DOES WHAT? and TIMELINES
a. Doctor
Doctor is the team leader in the entire set up. In the context of breast cancers the
doctors would include specialists from Medical Oncology, Radiation Oncology,
Surgical Oncology, pathology , radiology and other allied specialities. A joint clinic
(tumour board) for taking collective decisions regarding the patients should be
preferred.

Suggested timelines
Surgery
Date of registration to surgery: 3 weeks
Date of Joint Clinic to surgery: one week
Chemotherapy
Surgery to 1st cycle of chemo: 4 weeks
1st cycle to 6th cycle: 120 days
1st cycle to 8th cycle: 160 days
Radiotherapy
Surgery to1st fraction of radiotherapy 200 days

b. Nurse: NA
c. Technician: NA

34

VII.

FURTHER READING / REFERENCES

1. Consolidated report of population based cancer registries 2001-2004.Indian Council of
Medical Research
2. Breast

cancer

incidence

and

mortality

worldwide

in

2008

summary.

http://globocan.iarc.fr/factsheets/cancers/breast.asp
3. Chapter 19 in: Mitchell, Richard Sheppard; Kumar, Vinay; Abbas, Abul K.; Fausto, Nelson.
Robbins Basic Pathology. Philadelphia: Saunders. ISBN 1-4160-2973-7. 8th edition
4. Kawai M, Minami Y, Kuriyama S et al. Adiposity, adult weight change and breast cancer
risk in postmenopausal Japanese women: the Miyagi Cohort Study. Br J Cancer. 2010; 26
(103):1443-7.
5. Beral V; Million Women Study Collaborators. Breast cancer and hormone-replacement
therapy in the Million Women Study. Lancet. 2003 Aug 9;362(9382):419-27.
6. Carlson RW, Allred DC, Anderson BO et al. Breast cancer. Clinical practice guidelines in
oncology. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2009;7:122-92
7. Aebi S, Davidson T, Gruber G et al. Primary breast cancer: ESMO Clinical Practice
Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Annals of Oncol 2010; 21
(Supplement 5): v9–v14.
8. Goldhirsch A, Ingle JN, Gelber RD et al. Thresholds for therapies: highlights of the St
Gallen International Expert Consensus on the Primary Therapy of Early Breast Cancer
2009. Annals of Oncol 2009;20: 1319–1329.
9. Harnett A, Smallwood J, Titshall V et al. Diagnosis and treatment of early breast cancer,
including locally advanced disease--summary of NICE guidance. BMJ 2009 25; 338: b438.
10. Hammond ME, Hayes DF, Dowsett M et al. American Society of Clinical
Oncology/College

of

American

Pathologists

guideline

recommendations

for

immunohistochemical testing of Etrogen and Pogesterone Rceptors in Beast Cncer. J
Clin Oncol. 2010;28 (16):2784-95

35

11. Wolff AC, Hammond ME, Schwartz JN, et al. American Society of Clinical
Oncology/College of American Pathologists guideline recommendations for human
epidermal growth factor receptor 2 testing in breast cancer. J Clin Oncol. 2007;25:118145
12. Pritchard KI, Shepherd LE, O’Malley FP et al. HER2 and responsiveness of breast cancer
to adjuvant chemotherapy. N Engl J Med 2006; 354: 2103–2111.
13. Sandhu DS, Sandhu S, Karwasra RK, Marwah S. Profile of breast cancer patients at a
tertiary care hospital in north India. Indian J Cancer 2010;47:16-22
14. Ewertz M, Jensen AB. Late effects of breast cancer treatment and potentials for
rehabilitation.. Acta Oncol. 2011;50(2):187-93.
15. Badwe RA, Hawaldar RW, Parmar V et al. Single Injection Depot Progesterone Prior to
Surgery and Survival in Women with Operable Breast Cancer: A Randomized Controlled
Trial. Abstr. 72: San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium, 2009
16. Khatcheressian JL, Wolff AC, Smith TJ et al. American Society of Clinical Oncology.
American Society of Clinical Oncology 2006 update of the breast cancer follow-up and
management guidelines in the adjuvant setting. J Clin Oncol. 2006 Nov 1;24(31):5091-7.
17. Troung PT, Olivotto IA, Kader HA et al. Selecting breast cancer patients with T1-T2
tumors and one to three positive axillary nodes at high post mastectomy locoregional
recurrence risk for adjuvant radiotherapy. Int. J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2005;61:1337-47.
18. Overgaard M, Nielsen HM, Overgaard J. Is the benefit of postmastectomy radiation
limited to patients with four or more positive nodes, as recommended in international
consensus reports? A subgroup analysis of the DBCG 82 b&c randomized trials.
Radiother Oncol 2007;82:247–253.
19. Sarin R, Dinshaw KA, Shrivastava SK et al. Therapeutic factors influencing the cosmetic
outcome and late complications in the conservative management of early breast cancer.
Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1993 ;27:285-92..
20. Beese SN, Munshi A, Buddrukar A et al. Breast radiation therapy guideline
implementation in low and middle income countries. Cancer(suppl) 2008;113;23052312.

36

21. Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group (EBCTCG). Effects of chemotherapy and
hormonal therapy for early breast cancer on recurrence and 15-year survival: an
overview of the randomised trials. Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group
(EBCTCG). Lancet 2005;365:1687-1717
22. Laurentiis ME, Cancello G, D’Agostino D et al. Taxane-Based Combinations As Adjuvant
Chemotherapy of Early Breast Cancer: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Trials J Clin Oncol
2008;26:44-53
23. Swain SM, Jeong JH, Geyer CE et al. Longer Therapy, Iatrogenic Amenorrhea, and
Survival in Early Breast Cancer. N Engl J Med 2010;362:2053-65.
24. Steger GG, Galid A, Gnant M et al.Pathologic Complete Response With Six Compared
With Three Cycles of Neoadjuvant Epirubicin Plus Docetaxel and Granulocyte ColonyStimulating Factor in Operable Breast Cancer: Results of ABCSG-14. J Clin Oncol 2007;
25:2012-2018.
25. Minckwitz GV , Kümmel S , Vogel P.et al. Intensified Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy in EarlyResponding Breast Cancer: Phase III Randomized GeparTrio Study. J Natl CancerInst;
2008:100,541-551
26. Bear, H. D. et al. Sequential preoperative or postoperative docetaxel added to
preoperative doxorubicin plus cyclophosphamide for operable breast cancer: National
Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project protocol B-27. J. Clin. Oncol.24, 2019–2027
(2006).
27. Cuppone F, Bria E, Carlini Pet al. Taxanes as Primary Chemotherapy for Early Breast
Cancer Meta-analysis of Randomized Trials. Cancer 2008;113:238–46
28. BuzdarAU, Ibrahim NK, Francis D, et al. Significantly higher pathologic complete
remission rate after neoadjuvant therapy with trastuzumab, paclitaxel, and epirubicin
chemotherapy: results of a randomized trial in human epidermal growth factor receptor
2-positive operable breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:3676-85
29. Gianni L, Eiermann W, Semiglazov V et al. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy with trastuzumab
followed by adjuvant trastuzumab versus neoadjuvant chemotherapy

37

alone, in patients with HER2-positive locally advanced breast cancer (the NOAH trial): a
randomised controlled superiority trial with a parallel HER2-negative cohort. Lancet
2010; 375: 377–84.
30. Semiglazov VF, Semiglazov VV, Dashyan GA, et al. Phase 2 randomized trial of primary
endocrine therapy versus chemotherapy in postmenopausal patients with estrogen
receptor-positive breast cancer. Cancer 2007;110:244–54.
31. Eiermann W, Paepke S, Appfelstaedt J, et al. Preoperative treatment of postmenopausal
breast cancer patients with letrozole: a randomised double-blind multicenter study. Ann
Oncol 2001;12:1527–32.
32. Cataliotti L, Buzdar AU, Noguchi S. Comparison of anastrozole versus tamoxifen as
preoperative therapy in postmenopausal women with hormone receptor positive breast
cancer.Cancer 2006; 106:2095–103
33. Dixon JM, Renshaw L, Macaskill EJ, et al. Increase in response rate by prolonged
treatment with neoadjuvant letrozole. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2009 ;113(1):145–51.
34. Dowsett M, Cuzick J, Ingle J et al. Meta-Analysis of Breast Cancer Outcomes in Adjuvant
Trials of Aromatase Inhibitors Versus Tamoxifen. J Clin Oncol 28:509-518
35. The BIG 1-98 Collaborative Group. Letrozole Therapy Alone or in Sequence with
Tamoxifen in Women with Breast Cancer N Engl J Med 2009;361:766-76.
36. Piccart-Gebhart MJ, Procter M, Leyland-Jones B et al.Trastuzumab after Adjuvant
Chemotherapy in HER2-Positive Breast Cancer .N Engl J Med 2005;353:1659-72.
37. Romond EH, Perez EA, Bryant J et al. Trastuzumab plus Adjuvant Chemotherapy for
Operable HER2-Positive Breast Cancer .N Engl J Med 2005;353:1673-84
38. Joensuu H, Kellokumpu-Lehtinen PL, Bono P, M et al. Adjuvant Docetaxel or Vinorelbine
with or without Trastuzumab for Breast Cancer. N Engl J Med 2006;354:809-20.
39. Aebi S, Davidson T, Gruber G, Castiglione M;Primary breast cancer: ESMO Clinical
Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. ESMO Guidelines Working
Group. Ann Oncol. 2010 May;21 Suppl 5:v9-14.
40. Grunfeld E, Hodgson DC, Del Giudice ME, Moineddin R. Population-based longitudinal
study of follow-up care for breast cancer survivors. J Oncol Pract. 2010 ;6:174-81.

38

41. Grunfeld E, Mant D, Yudkin P, Adewuyi-Dalton R, Cole D, Stewart J, Fitzpatrick R, Vessey
M. Routine follow up of breast cancer in primary care: randomised trial. BMJ. 1996 Sep
14;313:665-9.
42. Palli D, Russo A, Saieva C, Ciatto S, Rosselli Del Turco M, Distante V, Pacini P. Intensive vs
clinical follow-up after treatment of primary breast cancer: 10-year update of a
randomized trial. National Research Council Project on Breast Cancer Follow-up. JAMA.
1999;5;281:1586
43. Simon RM, Paik S, Hayes DF. Use of Archived Specimens in Evaluation of Prognostic and
Predictive Biomarkers. J Natl Cancer Inst 2009;101: 1446 – 1452
44. Kornecki A. Current status of breast ultrasound. Can Assoc Radiol J. 2011 Feb;62(1):3140.
45. Houssami N, Ciatto S, Macaskill P et al. Accuracy and surgical impact of magnetic
resonance imaging in breast cancer staging: systematic review and meta-analysis in
detection of multifocal and multicentric cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008;26; 3248-3258
46. National Comprehensive Cancer Network Guidelines, Version 2, 2011 accessed at
http://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/f_guidelines.asp
47. Arriagada R, Lê MG, Rochard F et al. Conservative treatment versus mastectomy in early
breast cancer: patterns of failure with 15 years of follow-up data. Institut GustaveRoussy Breast Cancer Group. J Clin Oncol. 1996;14:1558-64
48. Fisher B, Anderson S, Bryant J, et al. Twenty-year follow-up of a randomized trial
comparing total mastectomy, lumpectomy, and lumpectomy plus radiation for the
treatment of invasive breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2002;347:1233-1241.
49. Leong SP, Shen ZZ, Liu TJ et al. Is Breast Cancer the Same Disease in Asian and Western
Countries? World J Surg. 2010;34:2308-24.
50. de Lorenzi F. Oncoplastic surgery: the evolution of breast cancer treatment. Breast J.
2010 Sep-Oct;16 Suppl 1:S20-1
51. Peterson ME, Schultz DJ, Reynolds C, et al. Outcomes in breast cancer patients relative to
margin status after treatment with breast-conserving surgery and radiation therapy: the
University of Pennsylvania experience. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1999;43: 1029-1035

39

52. Obedian E, Haffty BG. Negative margin status improves local control in conservatively
managed breast cancer patients. Cancer J Sci Am 2000; 6:28-33
53. Skripenova S, Layfield LJ.Initial margin status for invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast
and subsequent identification of carcinoma in reexcision specimens. Arch Pathol Lab Med.
2010 ;134:109-114
54. Parmar V, Krishnamurthy A, Hawaldar R.Breast conservation treatment in women with
locally advanced breast cancer - experience from a single centre. Int J Surg.
2006;4(2):106-14. Epub 2006 Feb 17.
55. Oh JL, Nguyen G, Whitman GJ et al. Placement of radiopaque clips for tumor localization
in patients undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy and breast conservation therapy.
Cancer. 2007;110:2420-2427.
56. Lannin DR, Grube B, Black DS et al. Breast tattoos for planning surgery following
neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Am J Surg. 2007;194:518-520.
57. Chen AM, Meric-Bernstam F, Hunt KK, et al. Breast-conserving therapy after neoadjuvant
chemotherapy: The M.D. Anderson Cancer Center experience. J Clin Oncol
2004;22:2303-2312.
58. Parmar V, Krishnamurthy A, Hawaldar R et al. Breast conservation treatment in women
with locally advanced breast cancer - experience from a single centre. Int J Surg.
2006;4:106-14.
59. Dillon MF, Advani V, Masterson C et al. The value of level III clearance in patients with
axillary and sentinel node positive breast cancer. Ann Surg. 2009 May;249(5):834-9.
60. D. N. Krag, S. J. Anderson, T. B. Julian et al. Primary outcome results of NSABP B-32, a
randomized phase III clinical trial to compare sentinel node resection (SNR) to
conventional axillary dissection (AD) in clinically node-negative breast cancer patients. J
Clin Oncol. 2010; 28:18s,(suppl; abstr LBA505).
61. Mansel RE, Fallowfield L, Kissin M, et al. Randomized multicenter trial of sentinel node
biopsy versus standard axillary treatment in operable breast cancer: the ALMANAC Trial.
J Natl Cancer Inst. 2006;98: 599–609.

40

62. Forrest AP, Everington D, McDonald CC et al. The Edinburgh randomized trial of axillary
sampling or clearance after mastectomy. Br J Surg. 1995;82:1504-1508.
63. Parmar V, Hawaldar R, Nadkarni MS et al. Low axillary sampling in clinically nodenegative operable breast cancer. Natl Med J India. 2009;22:234-236.
64. Senie RT, Rosen PP, Rhodes P, et al. Timing of breast cancer excision during the
menstrual cycle influences duration of disease-free survival. Ann Intern Med.
1991;115:337–342.
65. Veronesi U, Luini A, Mariani L, et al. Effect of menstrual phase on surgical treatment of
breast cancer. Lancet. 1994;343:1545–1547.
66. Grant CS, Ingle JN, Suman VJ et al. Menstrual cycle and surgical treatment of breast
cancer: findings from the NCCTG N9431 study. J Clin Oncol. 2009;27:3620-3266.
67. Bartelink H, Horiot JC, Poortmans P, et al. Recurrence rates after treatment of breast
cancer with standard radiotherapy with or without additional radiation. N Engl J Med
2001;345:1378-1387.
68. Poortmans P, Bartelink H, Horiot JC et al. The influence of the boost technique on local
control in breast conserving treatment in the EORTC 'boost versus no boost' randomised
trial. Radiother Oncol, 2004;72: 25–33
69. Poortmans P, Bartelink H, Horiot JC et al. The influence of the boost technique on local
control in breast conserving treatment in the EORTC 'boost versus no boost' randomised
trial. Radiother Oncol, 2004;72: 25–33.
70. Smith BD, Arthur DW, Buchholz TA et al. Accelerated Partial Breast Radiation consensus
statement from The American Society For Radiation Oncology (ASTRO). Int. J. Radiation
Oncology Biol. Phys. 2009;74,987–1001.
71. Orecchia R, Ciocca M, Lazzari R, et al. Intraoperative radiation therapy with electrons
(ELIOT) in early-stage breast cancer. Breast. 2003;12:483–490
72. Nag S, Kuske RR, Vicini F, et al. The American Brachytherapy Society recommendations
for brachytherapy for carcinoma of the breast. Oncology. 2001;15:195-207

41

RESOURCES REQUIRED FOR ONE PATIENT / PROCEDURE (PATIENT WEIGHT 60
KGS)
(Units to be specified for human resources, investigations, drugs and
consumables and equipment. Quantity to also be specified)
Situation

HUMAN
RESOURCES

INVESTIGATIONS

DRUGS &
CONSUMABLES

EQUIPMENT

1
2

42

Chronic Cancer Pain Management Guidelines:
These guidelines are meant for management of patients with the following pain scenarios:
1) Patients reporting with moderate to severe pain prior to any cancer therapy
2) Patients with advanced disease (including residual or recurrent disease)
3) Patients requiring pain relief during the cancer therapy esp. during chemotherapy or
radiotherapy
4) Patient at end of life
5) Pain in cancer survivors.

·
·
·

ETIOPATHOLOGY OF PAIN
Pain can be somatic or visceral or neuropathic in origin. It can either be caused by the
disease itself or by cancer therapy or may be unrelated to cancer.
The pain assessment is largely multidimensional.
It includes
o The physiological component (nociception);
o The sensory component (i.e. the subject’s perception of nociception, such as pain
location, intensity and quality).
o The affective component (i.e. mood & anxiety response)
o Cognitive component (i.e. how the pain affects patients’ thought processes and
how the patients view themselves),
o Behavioral components (i.e. pain behaviors such as analgesic intake or activity
level) are assessed during a comprehensive patient assessment.

43

I. Cancer Pain Assessment Protocol

1. Aim:
To lay down guidelines for
a. Comprehensive assessment of patients with cancer for all types of pain
b. Appropriate treatment regimens based on the underlying mechanisms causing
pain.
2. Scope of these guidelines
a. Help clinicians assess and manage cancer pain effectively
b. To minimize risk of side effects due to analgesics
c. To standardize prescriptions and procedures
d. To individualize treatment with the goal of maximizing function & quality of life
3. Assessment of Pain
Who should assess patient’s pain?
The patient himself/herself is the most reliable assessor of pain and should, where
possible, be the prime assessor of his or her pain. The patient should be the prime assessor of
his or her pain. (D)*
Due to frailty, cognitive impairment or communication deficits not all patients are able
to relate the story of their pain. Completion of pain scoring tools may not be possible. In
these cases families or health professionals may act as a surrogate.
How should pain be assessed?
Careful history taking and listening attentively to the patient will usually diagnose the type of
pain and this in turn dictates the therapy. The severity of the pain will determine the step of
the World Health Organization (WHO) ladder at which the therapeutic intervention will
begin.
Detailed history of pain
a. Location of pain
b. Number of pains
c. Intensity of pain : based on patient’s self report using;
i. 0-10 numerical rating scale or

44

ii.

pictorial scale ( Faces Pain rating scale)

e. Timing of pain: onset, duration, course, intermittent or persistent
f. Characteristics of the pain (Pathophysiology):
i. Nociceptive pain: injury to somatic & visceral structures with activation of
nociceptors
· Somatic: sharp, well localized, throbbing, aching, stabbing,
pressure-like
· Visceral: diffuse, aching, cramping
ii. Neuropathic pain: injury to peripheral or central nervous system.
Described as burning, sharp, shooting, and tingling.
g. Aggravating & relieving factors
h. Interference with daily activities: general activity, sleep, mood, appetite
i. Etiology of pain: Is the pain caused by;
· Cancer
· Cancer therapy: Radiation, chemotherapy, surgery or procedure
related pain
· Unrelated cause
j. Analgesic drug history: Current/past pain medication
i. What medications?
· What dose, how often & how long?
ii. What was the response?
· Pain relief
· Side effects
· Reason for discontinuation
k. Presence of clinically significant psychological disorder , anxiety or depression
l. Oncologic treatment: includes
i. Chemotherapy : ongoing & prior
ii. Radiation therapy
iii. Surgery
m. Medical history
i. Presence of other illnesses/ co-morbidities
ii. Pre-existing chronic pain
n. Physical examination: Includes general condition, gait of patient, local findings
like swelling and inflammation, altered sensation like allodynia, hyperalgesia.
45

o. Laboratory & imaging studies to evaluate disease progression:
i. All available investigations should be reviewed.
ii. In advance cases repeating investigations for new onset pain is not
warranted
iii. However in select cases if the pain presentation is out of proportion of
the clinical scenario, relevant imaging should be asked for.
p. Reassessment at subsequent follow ups
Pain assessment tools
Patients with cancer pain should have treatment outcomes monitored regularly
using numerical rating scales. (D)*
Observational pain rating scales should be used in patients who are unable to use
a self assessment scale. (C)*
The endpoint of assessment is;
i. To establish a “Pain Diagnosis”: which includes the etiology and
pathophysiology of pain
ii. To Individualize treatment
Use valid pain assessment tools to evaluate, at regular intervals, both pain intensity and the
effectiveness of the pain management plan; document these reassessments. (A)*
Frequency of assessments
Continual reassessment of the patient is required to identify the effectiveness of
pain management, to identify and treat adverse side effects. All patients should
be reassessed after 5-7 days of first visit, when possible.

Principles of the World Health Organization (WHO) CANCER PAIN RELIEF PROGRAM
· The patient is started on the appropriate level of the 3 steps WHO ladder for the degree of pain,
analgesics are prescribed.
Step 1: Paracetamol and/or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
Step 2: Weak Opioids e.g. codeine, tramadol
Step 3: Strong Opioids e.g. Morphine
· Oral route of drug delivery is advocated.
· A patient’s treatment should start at the step of the WHO analgesic ladder appropriate for the severity of
the pain. Prescription of analgesics should always be adjusted as the pain severity alters. If the pain
severity increases and is not controlled on a given step, move upwards to the next step of the analgesic
ladder. Do not prescribe another analgesic of the same potency.
· All patients with moderate to severe cancer pain, regardless of aetiology, should receive a trial of opioid
analgesia.
· Chronic pain in patients with cancer is usually continuous and where this is so, therapeutic plasma levels of
analgesics should be maintained by giving the drug at regular intervals according to its pharmacokinetic
and pharmacodynamic profile not as PRN basis.
· Appropriate analgesia for breakthrough pain must be prescribed.

46

Figure 1: World Health Organization analgesic ladder
II. Guidelines for prescribing Non-opioid analgesics
- Paracetamol , NSAIDs may be used at any stage of WHO ladder
-

Used synergistically and produce better pain relief. Paracetamol and / or NSAID should
be used unless contraindicated (A)

a) Paracetamol:
Paracetamol works as a weak prostaglandin inhibitor. It achieves this by blocking the
production of prostaglandins, thereby blocks pain message to the brain and at source of
pain, hence has different action from Aspirin and NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
drugs). Paracetamol can be used by patients for whom NSAIDs are contraindicated,
including those with asthma or peptic ulcers. Because there are few interactions with other
medications, paracetamol can be taken by people with sensitivity to aspirin. Standard safe
dose is 1000mg four times a day or upto 4 gm/day in a normal healthy adult.
b) NSAIDs:

Use any NSAID that the patient has found effective and tolerated well in the past, otherwise
consider ibuprofen to the maximal dose.
Ibuprofen, 400 mg four times a day (daily maximum = 3,200 mg)
Note that the potential adverse effects of chemotherapy, such as hematologic, renal, hepatic,
and cardiovascular toxicities, can be increased by the concomitant prescription of NSAIDS.
Opioid analgesics are a safe and effective alternative analgesic to NSAIDs.
i.

-

Monitoring for NSAID toxicities:
Baseline blood pressure, BUN, creatinine, liver function studies [alkaline phosphatase,
LDH, SGOT, SGPT], CBC, and fecal occult blood
Repeat every 3 mths to ensure lack of toxicity
47

ii.

NSAID and toxicities:
Age > 60 y, compromised fluid status, multiple myeloma, diabetes, interstitial nephritis,
papillary necrosis, and concomitant administration of other nephrotoxic drugs (including
cyclosporine, cisplatin) and renally excreted chemotherapy

iii.

Treatment of toxicity :
If patient develops gastrointestinal upset, peptic ulcer , hemorrhage or vomiting,
consider discontinuing NSAID or changing to selective COX-2 inhibitor. COX-2 inhibitors
are associated with lower incidence of GI adverse effects and do not inhibit platelet
aggregation, however, they have not been demonstrated to have reduced renal adverse
effects.Consider adding antacids, H2 receptor antagonists, omeprazole.
Discontinue NSAID if liver function studies increase 1.5 times the upper limit of normal.
If congestive heart failure or hypertension develops or worsens, history of cardiovascular
disease, discontinue NSAID.
Risk of bleeding may significantly increase in patients on anticoagulants, such as warfarin
or heparin, if NSAIDs are given.

-

-

III. Guidelines for prescribing opioids in Cancer Pain:
1. Intent:
a. To lay down guidelines for
b. the use of opioid analgesics in patients with cancer pain
c. the use of rescue doses for breakthrough pain
d. Conversion / rotation from one opioid to another opioid
e. Conversion of oral to transdermal route
f. the management of opioid induced side effects
2. Scope of these guidelines
a. To standardize prescription of opioids across the service & hospital
b. To prevent and actively manage opioid related side effects
3. General principles of opioid prescription (APPENDIX I)
a. The WHO analgesic ladder should be followed while treating pain in patients with
cancer
b. Start treatment at the WHO analgesic ladder step appropriate to the severity of
pain
c. Oral route preferred. Other routes (S.C, I.V, Transdermal, buccal, transmucosal,
PR) can be used when indicated, if oral route cannot be used
d. Intramuscular route not recommended as it is painful and unreliable
e. Analgesia should be prescribed on a “regular” and not on an “as required” basis
f. Appropriate analgesia should be prescribed for breakthrough pain
48

g. Mixed agonists-antagonists have limited usefulness in cancer pain and should not
be prescribed in combination with opioid agonists. Could precipitate withdrawal
in opioid dependent patients
h. Reassure patients about the low probability of addiction to opioids & encourage
to adhere to treatment regime
4. Principles of opioid maintenance therapy
a. Extended release or long-acting preparations on a regular schedule to provide
background analgesia once dose requirements are stable
b. Rescue doses (1/6th of the 24 hr dose of morphine) in the form of an immediate
acting/ short acting opioid preparation should be prescribed for breakthrough
pain or acute exacerbations related to activity
c. The same opioid, if possible, should be used for breakthrough and “around-theclock” dosing
d. Increase the dose of the “around-the-clock” preparation if patient requires more
than 3 breakthrough analgesic doses
e. Dose increase, if necessary
i. Immediate release preparation: after every 24 hours
ii. Controlled release or extended release preparations: after 48 hours
f. Each dose increment can be set at 33-50% of the pre-existing dose and should be
accompanied by a proportionate increase in the rescue dose.
g. Transmucosal fentanyl should be used only in opioid tolerant patients and
initiated with the lowest dose
h. For patients who experience inadequate pain relief or unacceptable side effects :
Consider Opioid rotation
5. Conversion from one opioid to another (Opioid rotation)
a. For patients with inadequate pain relief and/or intolerable side effects while on
strong opioids: Consider switching to a different opioid
b. Determine the amount of current opioid taken in last 24 hours that produced
good pain relief
c. Calculate the equianalgesic dose of the new opioid
d. An equianalgesic table (APPENDIX II-IV)should be used when switching to ensure
equivalency
e. Safe to reduce the dose of the new opioid by 25% to 50% when switching, if pain
relief was good
f. If previously pain relief was inadequate, may begin with 100% of equianalgesic
dose or increase by 25%
g. Assess regularly for efficacy & side effects.
6. Principles for prescription of Transdermal fentanyl
a. Pain should be well controlled on a short acting opioid prior to starting a
Transdermal fentanyl patch.
b. Should be used only in opioid tolerant patients
49

c. Not recommended for unstable or poorly controlled pain
d. Fever and use of warming devices (warming blankets etc) accelerate absorption
from the patch, hence are contraindications for its use.
e. Analgesic duration is usually 72 hours, but some patients require replacement
every 48 hours
7. Conversion from morphine / codeine to transdermal fentanyl
a. Select mcg/hr dose of transdermal fentanyl based on the last 24 hr dose of
Morphine or codeine (APPENDIX III)
b. An “as- required” dose of immediate release/ short acting morphine should be
prescribed and will be needed particularly during the first 8 to 24 hours
c. The patch dose can be increased after 3 days based on the amount of daily ‘asrequired” opioid needed.

8. Management of side effects
a. Constipation
i. Should prescribe a stimulant laxative ± stool softener (Liquid paraffin + Na
picosulphate)
ii. Increase dose when increasing dose of opioids
iii. Adequate fluid and dietary fiber intake
iv. Add another laxative, e.g.; lactulose 30-60 ml/day, if constipation persists
v. Severe constipation: Sena compounds (Senasoft) initiate with 1hs.
vi. Enema, if fecolith
b. Nausea
i. Prophylactic use of anti-emetics may be recommended in emesis prone
patients
ii. If nausea develops;
1. Rule out other causes (constipation, CNS pathology,
Chemotherapy, radiation therapy, hypercalcemia)
2. Consider metoclopramide 10 mg PO every 6-8 hrs, or in refractory
cases, haloperidol 0.5-1 mg PO every 6-8 h may be added
3. If nausea present despite above, add an “around-the-clock”
serotonin antagonist e.g.; ondansetron 8 mg PO TDS.
c. Pruritis
i. Assess for other causes (other medications)
ii. Antihistamines to be used. Diphenhydramine (Benadryl ) 25-50 mg IV or
PO every 6 hrs or promethazine (phenargan)12.5 -25mg PO every 6 hrs
iii. If persisting despite above, consider continuous infusion of naloxone 0.25
mcg/kg/h and titrate up to 1 mcg/ kg/ hr without decreasing analgesic
efficacy

50

d. Sedation
i. Assess for other causes (CNS pathology, other medications,
hypercalcemia, dehydration, sepsis, hypoxia)
ii. Reduce dose of opioid
iii. Consider rotation
iv. Increase non-opioid analgesics where feasible
v. CNS stimulants e.g.; Caffeine 100-200 mg PO every 6 hrs could be
considered
e. Respiratory depression
i. Shallow breathing & unresponsiveness. Consider naloxone infusion.
Dilute 1 ampoule (0.4 mg/ml) in 9 ml of normal saline to a total volume of
10 ml. Give 1-2 ml (0.04-0.08 mg) every 30-60 seconds until symptoms
improve.
ii. If no improvement, consider other causes for change in CNS status
f. Delirium
i. Assess for other causes (e.g.; hypercalcemia, CNS metastases, other
psychoactive medications)
ii. Reduce dose of opioid if feasible
iii. Haloperidol 0.5-2 mg PO or IV every 4-6 hrs
g. Cognitive impairment
i. Stable doses of opioids (> 2 weeks) unlikely to interfere with psychomotor
& cognitive function.
ii. Monitor during initial titration
h. Usually tolerance develops for all side-effects with time, except constipation. If
persists, consider opioid rotation or maximize non-opioid / neuraxial analgesics/
neuroablative procedures.
9. Co-morbidities
a. Liver disease
i. All opioids are metabolized in the liver
i. Opioid clearance reduced, bioavailability and half-life increased
ii. Risk of adverse effects because of higher-than-expected plasma
concentrations
iii. Metabolism of morphine not significantly altered
iv. Avoid use of Acetaminophen in these patients
b. Renal disease
i. Active metabolites of propoxyphene ( norpropoxyphene), morphine
(morphine-6-glucuronide [M6G], morphine-3-glucuronide [M3G] and nor
morphine) and codeine may accumulate
51

ii. High levels of M3G may cause hyperalgesia and myoclonus
iii. Use opioids with caution
1. Reduced dose and / or
2. Reduce frequency of administration
iv. Avoid using morphine and codeine in patients with renal failure
v. Fentanyl, Alfentanil and Buprenorphine are the safest opioids in patients
with chronic renal disease stage 4 or 5 (GFR <30 ml/min). Transdermal
fentanyl is the opioid of choice
c. Dysphagia, Intestinal obstruction: Transdermal Fentanyl patches are the
treatment of choice. Start with the lowest strength patch (12.5 mcg) in opioid
naïve patients. If already have taken morphine or other oral opioid, then start
appropriate dose of Transdermal fentanyl referring to the conversion chart
(APPENDIX III)
APPENDIX I: Basic pharmacology of opioids (available in India)
Drug

Onset of
pain
relief

Codeine

30-60
min
30 min
20-30
min

Tramadol
Morphine

Time to
peak
pain
relief
45-60
min
180 min
60-90
min

Duration
Bioavailability
of
pain (range)
relief

Peak plasma
level

Half life

4-6 hr

40%(12-84%)

1-2 hr

2.5-3.5 hr

4-6 hr
3-6 hr

75%
35% (15-64%)

2 hr
15-60 min

6 hr
1.5-4.5 hr

APPENDIX II:Oral to parenteral opioid equivalences table
OPIOID
Dose (mg) equianalgesic to 10
mg Morphine
PARENTERAL
ORAL DOSE
DOSE
Codeine
130 mg
200 mg
Morphine
10 mg
30 mg
Tramadol
---50-100 mg

IV
to
FACTOR

1.5
3
---

APPENDIX III: Dose conversion table from other opioids to Transdermal fentanyl
Transdermal
Morphine
Codeine
Fentanyl
IV/Sub cut
Oral
IV/Sub cut
25 mcg/h
20 mg/day
60 mg/day
130 mg/day
50 mcg/h
40 mg/ day
120 mg/day
260 mg/day

PO Duration
Action

3-4 hr
3-4 hr
3-7 hr

Oral
200 mg/day
400 mg/day
52

Of

75 mcg/h
100 mcg/h

60 mg/day
80 mg/ day

180 mg/day
240 mg/day

APPENDIX IV: Dose conversion ratios (While switching opioids)
Current opioid (oral)
New opioid (oral)
Codeine
Morphine
Tramadol
Morphine

390 mg/ day
520 mg/day

600 mg/ day
800 mg/day

How to calculate 24 hour dose
Divide by 10
Divide by 5

Reference:
Control of pain in adults with cancer: Summary of SIGN guidelines. BMJ 2008, 337:1106-1110)

IV. Guidelines for prescribing adjuvants:
What is an adjuvant? An adjuvant is a medication that is not primarily designed to control pain,
but can be used for this purpose. They are a diverse group of drugs that includes
antidepressants, anticonvulsants (antiseizure drugs), and others.
a) Antidepressants
The best studied adjuvant analgesics are the tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), such as
amitriptyline , and desipramine. These drugs have been shown to relieve pain
independent of their effects on depression; that is, patients who are not depressed may
experience pain relief. Once the correct dose is found for the individual patient,
favorable results are usually seen within a week; however, side effects, including weight
gain, dry mouth, blurred vision and constipation, are possible. They are prescribed either
alone or with anticonvulsant in patients with neuropathic pain
b) Anticonvulsants
Drugs that are primarily used to treat epilepsy (seizures) have been used to treat nerve
pain conditions. Many anticonvulsant drugs have been shown in clinical studies to be
effective. The most common side effects associated with these drugs are mental
clouding and sleepiness. Gabapentin or pregabalin are two agents which are used
commonly.
c) Alpha-2-Adrenergic Agonists
Currently, there are two alpha-2-adrenergic agonists that have some evidence as pain
relievers: tizanidine and clonidine
d) Local Anesthetics
Intravenous infusion of a local anesthetic is a special technique that may be used by pain
specialists. Mexilitine has shown to be effective in chronic nerve pain syndromes with
53

lancinating type of pain. Other oral local anesthetics are also used. Lignocaine
transdermal patch 5% is used in post herpetic analgesia
e) Steroids
Corticosteroids can be used as an effective analgesic for treating some cancer pain
syndromes. Used in pain due to raised intracranial tension, nerve compression, epidural
spinal cord compression, pain due intestinal obstruction, plexopathies and complex
regional pain syndrome (reflex sympathetic dystrophy).
f) Other Adjuvants
- Baclofen as a muscle relaxant, is also used to treat nerve pain syndromes.
- Drugs that block wide dynamic range neurons involved in the experience of pain, the Nmethyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, may also be used as very useful analgesic in
refractory neuropathic pain conditions. Examples: Ketamine (anesthetic),
dextromethorphan (the cough suppressant, but at higher doses than those needed to
block cough)
- Bisphosphonates: is considered for use as part of the regime to treat pain in patients
with metastatic bone pain (B)
V. Guidelines for the management of Neuropathic Pain
1. Aim:
a. To lay down guidelines for the;
b. Assessment of neuropathic pain in patients with cancer
c. Appropriate treatment regimens based on the underlying mechanisms causing
pain.
2. Scope of these guidelines
a. Help clinicians to assess and manage neuropathic pain in cancer effectively.
b. To minimize risk of side effects due to analgesics
c. To standardize prescriptions and procedures
d. To individualize treatment with the goal of maximizing function & quality of life
3.1 What is neuropathic pain?
e. Pain arising as a direct consequence of a lesion or a disease affecting the
somatosensory system (Neuropathic Pain Working Group 2006)
f. Common neuropathic syndromes in cancer
g. Brachial plexus neuropathies
h. Chemotherapy-induced
neuropathy:
Cisplatin,
Oxaliplatin,
Paclitaxel,
Thalidomide, Vincristine, Vinblastine
i. Cranial neuropathies, Post herpetic neuropathy
j. Post-radiation plexopathy
k. Surgical neuropathies
54

l. Phantom limb
m. Post-mastectomy syndrome
n. Post-thoracotomy syndrome
How to diagnose neuropathic pain?
In the pain clinic, assessment of a pain patient with suspected neuropathic pain aims at
recognition of neuropathic pain, localizing the lesion, and diagnosing the causative disease
or event. Nerve compression has been reported to be the most common cause of
neuropathic pain in cancer patients (79%), followed by nerve injury (16%) and
sympathetically mediated pain (5%).
· Description/ Characteristics of pain:
i. Spontaneous (Stimulus independent):
1. burning
2. shooting
3. stabbing
4. Electric shock-like pain
5. Pin & needles
6. Dysaesthesias (abnormal and unpleasant sensations)
7. Paraesthesias (abnormal, but not unpleasant sensations)
ii. Stimulus evoked pains (Elicited by mechanical, thermal or chemical
stimulus):
1. Hyperalgesia (increased response to normally painful stimulus)
2. Mechanical allodynia (pain from non-painful stimuli)
3. Inability to tolerate cloth, air from fan or air conditioning vent
touching the skin
4. Cold allodynia (pain evoked by cold stimulus)
·

Pain assessment tools:
painDETECT questionnaire: this simple scoring system is available in English, Hindi,
Marathi and other many Indian languages, can be completed by individual patients,
helped by their relatives. A diagnosis of neuropathic pain can be made. A total of score
points are estimated out of 35 points. < 12 : negative , 13-18: possible, > 19 : positive
neuropathic pain.

Frequency of assessments
Review regularly, at least once a week, to determine the effectiveness of treatment. If
patient is in hospital, more often twice a week.

4 Management of neuropathic pain
a) Initiate pharmacotherapy with only one drug at a time

55

b) Neuropathic pain can be treated by unconventional analgesics (adjuvants) which are
primarily not analgesics e.g. antidepressants, anticonvulsants or combined with
conventional medications such as opioids.
c) Adjuvants analgesics e.g. tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) and anticonvulsants are
used as first line drugs.
d) If pain relief is inadequate with one drug, TCA+ anticonvulsants (Gabapentin or
pregabalin) may be used.
e) Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) or selective nor epinephrine reuptake
inhibitors (SNRI) may be added as 2nd line drugs e.g. duloxitine, lamotrigine.
f) Aggressive side effects management is required to open the therapeutic window.
g) Opioids may be added as third line drug if the combination fails to provide
satisfactory relief.
h) Capsaicin cream, lidocaine 5% patch or Inj ketamine may also be used to obtain
optimum pain relief. The starting dose and any titration of each pharmacological
intervention should be properly planned in individual patient, taking into
consideration the potential side-effects and interactions with other medication.
i) Non-Opioids: NSAIDs and Paracetamol have a limited use in neuropathic pain.
j) However patient may have associated nociceptive pain which may respond to the
same.
k) Interventional treatments for neuropathic pain should be offered to any patient
whose pain is not adequately treated with first and second line drugs or for patients
with intolerable side-effects from medication
l) Invasive treatments should usually be carried out as part of a multidisciplinary
treatment plan

References:
Paice JA. Mechanisms and management of neuropathic pain in cancer.
www.SupportiveOncology.net .2003. Vol 1 (2); 107-120 Management of neuropathic pain in
cancer. EAPC Congress Glasgow

56

VI. Guidelines for management of bone metastasis pain:
1.

INTRODUCTION

a) Cancer-induced bone pain (CIBP) is one of the most common types of cancer pain,
present in 28-45% of patients with bone metastasis. CIBP often results in hospice or
hospital admission and is associated with reduced quality of life, increased psychological
distress and decreased physical and social functioning.
b) The degree and location of bone metastases do not necessarily correlate with the
severity of pain. Some patients have widespread bone metastases but minimal pain,
whereas others have minimal bone metastases but severe pain. Apart from CIBP, the
other complications of cancer-induced bone disease are hypercalcaemia, cytopaenias
and risk of pathological fractures.
c) CIBP does not exist as a single entity, but is instead a combination of background pain
and breakthrough pain.
d) Almost half of breakthrough pain episodes were rapid in onset (<5 min) and short in
duration (<15 min). Forty-four per cent of patients with breakthrough pain had pain that
was unpredictable
e) Up to 45% of patients with CIBP report poor pain control
2.

i.

DIAGNOSIS:

A cancer patient requires a comprehensive evaluation to determine the etiology and site
of the specific pain syndrome involved bone metastasis.
Plain X-ray: Lytic, nodular or rounded, well-circumscribed sclerotic lesions are seen on a
plain x-ray.

ii.

CT-scan: Is extremely useful to confirm isolated lesions, assess the extent of soft tissue
involvement and to differentiate between metastasis and degenerative changes.

iii.

Bone scan: Is a sensitive imaging tool to detect bone metastases early and still the
optimum method for diagnosis. However, small deposits (less than 2 mm) may be
missed.

iv.

MRI: Useful to image the spine, vertebral bodies, paraspinal area including the soft
tissue component and spinal cord compression. It can differentiate between benign and
malignant vertebral collapse4.

v.

PET-Scan: Positron emission tomography uses radioactive F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) as
a tracer to highlight metabolically active cells. It is not specific for bone metastases and
will also identify any area with increased metabolic rate and glucose turnover. The test is
now used as an investigational tool for most cancers5.
57

vi.

Biochemical markers: The biochemical markers currently available lack specificity and
are of no value in the diagnosis of skeletal metastasis. They include: alkaline
phosphatase, urinary hydroxyproline and urinary hydroxyproline: creatinine ratio.
3.

TREATMENT

a. The current treatment options for CIBP are wide-ranging and include external
beam radiotherapy, opioid analgesia, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
(NSAIDs) and bisphosphonates. In addition, local surgery and anaesthetic
techniques are used. However, each of these treatment options is accompanied
by limitations in their use.
b. Radiotherapy is the gold standard treatment of CIBP. Complete pain relief is only
achieved in about 25% of patients, whereas 50% of patients will achieve 50% pain
relief .
c. NSAIDs, being anti-inflammatory drugs are important in the treatment of CIBP
based on experience rather than strong evidence.
d. Opioids are an effective therapy for background pain in CIBP. However, a normal
release morphine will probably be ineffective in patients with rapid-onset, short
duration breakthrough pain due to its slow onset of action.
e. Alternative
routes
of
fast
acting
opioids
are
transnasal(butorphenol),transmucosal (fentanyl).
f. Bisphosphonates are used to reduce skeletal morbidity from bone metastases
and for analgesia in CIBP.
g. Pain produced by bone metastases influences the nervous system peripherally
and centrally. Spontaneous breakthrough pain which may occur at rest in bone
metastasis, may poorly respond to opioids.

References:
1. Coleman RE. Clinical features of metastatic bone disease and risk of skeletal morbidity.
Clin Cancer Res 2006;12(20 Pt 2): 6243se6249s.
2. Colvin L, Fallon M. Challenges in cancer pain management bone pain. Eur J Cancer
2008;44(8):1083e1090.
3. Urch C. The pathophysiology of cancer-induced bone pain: current understanding. Palliat
Med 2004;18(4):267e274.
4. Michaelson MD, Smith MR. Bisphosphonates for treatment and prevention of bone
metastases. J Clin Oncol 2005;23(32):8219e8224.
5. Wong R, Wiffen PJ. Bisphosphonates for the relief of pain secondary to bone metastases.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2002;(2): CD002068.
58

VII. Guidelines for the management of Breakthrough Pain (BTP) in cancer
1. Aim:
To lay down guidelines for
a. Identification & assessment of breakthrough pain in cancer patients.
b. Appropriate treatment regimens for the management of such pain
c. To reduce the intensity, severity & impact of each bout of pain
2. Definition: A transitory exacerbation of pain experienced by the patient who has a
relatively stable and adequately controlled baseline pain (Portenoy et al 2004).
Prevalence of BTP is 20- 65%.
3. What are the types of BTP?
a. Incident pain: precipitated by movement/coughing
b. Spontaneous pain : occurs in absence of a specific trigger & at random
Should be differentiated from end-of-dose pain which occurs,
· just prior to the scheduled dose of analgesia,
· Either due to an inadequate analgesic dose or too long an interval.
· Gradual onset.
4. How to identify breakthrough pain?
a. Rapid onset
b. Severe intensity
c. Variable duration (usually 30 minutes)
5. Assess
- All patients with cancer pain for presence of BTP (D)
- Each episode of breakthrough pain for;
a. Frequency
b. Duration
c. Pain intensity
d. Precipitating factors
e. Baseline pain treatments and their effectiveness
f. Re-assess to determine;
i. Efficacy & tolerability of treatment.
ii. Change in nature of the pain
6. Management of BTP
a. Optimize the round-the-clock analgesia by titrating opioids
b. Should always prescribe rescue analgesia and teach the patient how to use it.
c. Opioids are the rescue medications of choice. Little evidence to support the use
of non-opioid analgesics for breakthrough pain.

59

d. The opioid should be chosen based on its pharmacokinetic properties. If possible,
rescue dose should be of the same opioid used for baseline pain (Mercadante et
al 2002)2 but there are no compelling reasons for using the same opioid.
e. European Association of Palliative Care (EAPC) recommendations are to start
with 1/6th (17%) of the daily dose, and subsequent titration according to clinical
effect.(Hanks et al 2001)3.
f. The dose of opioid rescue medication should be determined by individual
titration(Zeppetella, 2006)4 (B)
g. Incident pain: pre-emptive use of a short acting opioid, 30 minutes before the
activity which precipitates pain. (Mc Carberg, 2007)5.
h. Spontaneous pain: Oral transmucosal fentanyl citrate (OTFC) found to be an
effective treatment for breakthrough pain by a recent Cochrane review.
(Zeppetella, 2006)4
i. End-of-dose failure: alter the around-the-clock medication to increase the dose
or shorten the dosing interval (McCarberg, 2007)5.
j. Transdermal fentanyl: duration of action- 72 hours. In some patients (3-43%),
duration is between 48-72 hrs & may require breakthrough medications after 48
hrs. Replace the patch in these patients every 48 hrs rather than 72 hrs instead of
increasing the dose of the patch.
k. More than 4 episodes of breakthrough pain in a day: review the baseline pain
management. (Coluzzi, 1998)6
APPENDIX V. Management of BTP
OTFC titration (adapted from Zeppetella2005)
Start dose at 200mcg

-

Patient consumes over 15 min
Waits for a further 15 mins, if
analgesia inadequate, consumes
another OTFC of the same strength

Did patient have adequate pain relief?

Yes

Successful dose determined

No

Increase dose to next strength

60

APPENDIXVI: Titration to obtain “correct dose” of oral morphine for breakthrough pain

Start with 1/6th (17%) of the daily dose

TITRATE

Pain not relieved & no side
effects

Titrate dose
upwards

Pain relieved but side effects
troublesome

Titrate dose
downwards

Pain not relieved & side
effects troublesome

Try alternative
treatment

61

APPENDIXVII: Breakthrough dose of oral morphine for background dose of transdermal fentanyl
Background dose of transdermal
fentanyl (µg/hr)
25

Breakthrough dose
morphine (mg)
< 20

50
75
100
125
150
175
200
225
250
275
300

25-35
40-50
55-65
70-80
85-95
100-110
115-125
130-140
145-155
160-170
175-185

of

oral

62

REFERENCES:
1. Portenoy R.K, Forbes K, Lussier D, Hanks G. (2004). Difficult pain problems: an
integrated approach. In Doyle D, Hanks G, Cherny N, Calman K , ed.Oxford Textbook
of Palliative Medicine (3rd edn). Oxford University Press, Oxford, 438-458
2. Mercadante S, Radbruch L, Caraceni A, et al. (2002). Episodic (breakthrough) pain.
Consensus Conference of an Expert Working Group of the European Association for
Palliative Care. Cancer, 94:832-839
3. Hanks G W, de Conno F, Cherny N, et al. (2001). Morphine and alternative opioids in
cancer pain: the EAPC recommendations. British Journal of cancer, 84: 587-593.
4. Zeppetella G, Ribeiro MDC. Opioids for the management of breakthrough (episodic)
pain in cancer patients. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2006
5. McCarberg, B. The treatment of breakthrough pain. Pain Med 2007 8:S 8-12
6. Coluzzi PH. Cancer pain management: newer perspectives on opioids and episodic
pain. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 1998 Jan-Feb;15(1):13-22
7. Zeppetella G (2005).Is the recommended titration schedule for OTFC too
conservative?. European Journal of Palliative Care,12(Suppl):6-7.

63

VIII. Guidelines for interventional Pain management:
Indications:
a) Usually nerve blocks are indicated when even oral strong analgesics do not provide even
50% pain relief and there are intolerable side effects.
b)
can be relieved. Verify interventional technique which will provide sufficient benefit for
the diagnosed pain syndrome.
c) Pain likely to be relieved with nerve block (eg, pancreas/ upper abdomen with celiac
plexus block, lower abdomen with superior hypogastric plexus block, intercostal nerve,
or peripheral nerve)
Commonly used interventional procedures
1) Neurodestructive procedures for well-localized pain syndromes
a) Head and neck: peripheral nerve block
b) Upper extremity: brachial plexus neurolysis
c) Thoracic wall: epidural neurolysis, intercostal neurolysis
d) Upper abdominal pain (visceral): celiac plexus block, thoracic splanchnicectomy
e) Midline pelvic pain: superior hypogastric plexus block
f) Rectal pain: intrathecal neurolysis, midline myelotomy or superior hypogastric plexus
block, Ganglion Impar
g) Unilateral pain syndromes: cordotomy
h) Consider intrathecal L/S phenol block
2) Radiological interventions: Percutaneous vertebroplasty/kyphoplasty, Radiofrequency
ablation for bone lesions
3) Neurostimulation procedures for cancer-related symptoms (ie, peripheral neuropathy)
4) Regional infusions (requires spinal intrathecal infusion pump) easy to internalize
implanted pump; for infusions of opioids, local anesthetics, clonidine, and ziconotide
Contraindications ;
Infection, coagulopathy, very short or lengthy life expectancy, distorted anatomy,
patient unwillingness, medications that increase risk for bleeding,(eg, use of anti-angiogenesis
agents such as bevacizumab) or technical expertise for performing interventions is not available.

64

IX. Guidelines for pain management at end of life:
1.Introduction
a) Many patients at the end of life are unable to verbally report pain using
standardized scales. In this situation, evaluate behavioral cues such as facial
grimacing, guarding, or vocalizing.
b) Rule out other potential causes of distress such as constipation, urinary
distension, or emotional and spiritual distress
c) Administration of opioids may be complicated by the inability to swallow.
Alternate routes of administration include buccal, sublingual, rectal,
subcutaneous, or intravenous delivery.
d) Doses may be decreased in some cases, as organ system failure leads to reduced
excretion of the drug and or its metabolites, as well as other factors.
e) Myoclonus may occur when higher doses of opioids are administered,
particularly in the face of renal dysfunction. Reducing the opioid dose or rotating
to another opioid can be effective, and adding benzodiazepines can be helpful.

2.Management:
a)
their anxiety.
b)
chaplains, and nurses)
c) Provide emotional support to the dying patient and his or her family members.
d)
e)
f)
or grandchildren) when communicating about death.
g)
counseling and support.

65

References:
Sykes N, Thorns A. The use of opioids and sedatives at the end of life. Lancet Oncol
2003;4:312–8.

X. Guidelines for pain management in cancer survivors:
1. INTRODUCTION:
A large number of disease-free cancer survivors live with pain or neuropathies induced
by treatment or by the cancer itself.
Sometimes these conditions resolve over time, but irreversible damage to tissue and
nerves can cause pain and neuropathy to progress and persist indefinitely.
Because health care professionals may not recognize these as delayed problems or know
how to identify those at greatest risk, many of these conditions go undiagnosed and
untreated.
Most chronic pain syndromes and neuropathies experienced by disease-free survivors of
cancer originate from
o an injury to peripheral nerves from surgical trauma,
o neurotoxicity of chemotherapeutic agents
o radiation-induced damage to nerves
Other sources of persistent or intermittent pain include:
i.

myofascial pain dysfunction syndrome, which is characterized by trigger
points in muscle or at the junction of muscle and fascia that refer pain to
other areas of the body, and which is associated with breast, thorax, and
head and neck surgery in cancer survivors.

ii.

fistula formation following pelvic surgery.

iii.

chronic inflammation, such as radiation-induced enteritis or proctitis.

iv.

osteoradionecrosis,a radiation-induced demineralization and vascularization
of the bone.

v.

Persistent nerve damage from tumor infiltration of nerves.

2. TREATMENT:
Anticonvulsants, tricyclic antidepressants, and opioids can be effective for alleviating
neuropathic pain. Novel pharmacologic agents such as neuroprotective compounds e.g
amifostine,glutamine,and glutathione,and neurotrophic factors (such as nerve growth
factor) can also be effective. Vitamin E has shown some promise in prophylaxis of
66

chemotherapy- induced peripheral neuropathy with cisplatin and paclitaxel. Less is
known about nonpharmacologic and alternative therapies.
References:
Levy MH, Chwistek M, Mehta RS. Management of chronic pain in cancer survivors, Cancer J.
2008 Nov-Dec;14(6):401-9.

67

MALIGNANCIES OF GASTROESOPHAGEAL JUNCTION
(Adenocarcinoma GEJunction)
Col (Prof) Sanjay Kapoor VSM,
HOD Oncology Command Hospital Lucknow
CASE DEFINITION

Tumors having their center 5-cm proximal or distal to the anatomic cardia are classified as
malignancies of the GE junction.Histologicaly they can be adenocarcinoma or squamous Cell
carcinomas.Squmaous cell Carcinomas are treated as carcinoma esophagus,hence all the
further discussion will be restricted to Adenocarcinoma GE Junction
Incidence of adenocarcinoam GEJunction is on the rise and is emerging as a new disease.
Carcinoma esophagus is now more common in the lower third and there is marked increase in
the carcinomas of proximal stomach creating the new identity of Adenocarcinoma of
GEJunction. There is a rise in the incidence of almost 10% per year, more the non endemic areas
or European world.
Unlike Squamous cell carcinoma,Adenocarcinoma GEJunction is found in the developed
countries and in patients of upper socio economic status and has a better prognosis than the
SCC esophagus. It is associated with Obesity, High Body mass index, GERD and Barrets
Esophagus.
Barrets Esophagus –this defined as the presence of intestinal metaplasia (mucin producing
goblet cells) in columnar cell lined epithelium that replaces the squamous epithelium of the
distal esophagus.This specialized metaplasia confirmed on histopathology is mandatory for
diagnosis of barrets Esophagus which confers a 40-125 fold higher risk for developing
adenocarcinoma GEJunction and is the singlemost important risk factor.
Classification of Barrets Esophagus
Siewart’s Classification
Type I – Epicenter of tumour or more than 66% of the tumor mass located >1 cm above
the anatomic GE junction
Type II- Tumor epicenter located within 1-cm proximal and 2-cm distal to the GE junction
Type III- Tumor epicenter or more than 66% of the tumor mass is located more than 2
cm below the anatomic GE junction
Revised Seiwart’s classification of 2000
Type I adenocarcinoma, which may infiltrate the GE junction from above
Type II adenocarcinoma, which arises from the GE junction
Type III adenocarcinoma, or subcardial gastric carcinoma, which infiltrates up to the GE
junction from below

WHEN TO SUSPECT
Presenting Symptoms

68

Most common presenting feature of adenocarcinoma GEJunction is dysphagia, initially to solids
and then to liquids. Other symptoms that patient may present with are
· Odynophagia
· Dyspepsia
· Loss of weight
· Anorexia
· Left supraclavicular node
· Haematemesis
· Vomiting
Differential Diagnosis
All elderly patients presenting with long standing dyspepsia and features of GERD or with
anorexia, loss of weight and dysphagia,should be investigated for carcinoma esophagus
Common differential diagnosis are
· GERD
· Barrets Esophagus
· Cercinoma Stomach
· Carcinoma Esophagus
· Achlasia cardia
· Hiatus Hernia
· Esophageal diverticulum or stricture
Examination
Besides the routine general and systemic examination, patient should be assessed for
· General condition
· Nutritional status
· Pallor
· Left supraclavicular node

WORKUP FOR DIAGNOSIS AND STAGING
InvestigationsFollowing investigations are mandatory for assessing any suspected or diagnosed case of
Carcinoma Esophagus
· Upper GI Endoscopy –To see for
Ø Presence of growth
Ø Site of growth
Ø Nature of growth
Ø Vertical and circumferential extent of growth
Ø Passage of scope beyond the growth
69

·

·

·
·
·
·
·

Ø Status of stomach
Ø Presence of Barrets esophagus
( Naso gastric feeding tube to be placed if esophageal lumen found to be
obstructed)
Endoscopic Biopsy- from representative site. Following to be assessed
Ø Histology
Ø Differentiation
Ø Presence of Barrets esophagus
CECT Chest and upper abdomen-To see for
Ø Vertical and Horizontal extent of diseases
Ø Adherence or infiltration of surrounding structures like trachea, main bronchus,
aorta and pericardium
Ø Para esophageal nodes
Ø Involvement of GE Junction and proximal stomach in the lower third esophageal
and GEJunction cancers
Ø Liver metastasis
Ø Pericardial and plural effusion
Ø Ascitis
Ø Perigastric lymphnodes
FNAB of left supraclavicular node if present and left scalene pad of fat biopsy if
nodularity felt
Hb, TLC, DLC, blood grouping
Biochemistry-LFT,RFT, Blood Sugar, Electrolytes and platelets
ECG
Ba Swallow-

Optinal Investigations
Following Investigations are optional and may be done in tertiary care centres where
facilities are available
· Endoscopic Ultrasound
· Endoscopic ultrasonographic FNAB of paraesophageal nodes
· PET Scan
· Her 2 Ney receptor study by FISH technique on biopsy specimen
STAGING (AJCC 7th Ed 2010)
• Tis
High grade dysplasia (ca in situ)
70

•

T1a

Tumour invades lamina propria or muscularis mucosa

•

T1b

Tumour invades submucosa

•

T2

Tumour invades muscularis propria

•

T3

Tumour invades adventitia

•

T4a

Resectable tumour invading pleura, pericardium or diaphragm

•

T4b

Unresectable tumour invading other adjacent structures,

•

Nx

Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed

•

N0

No regional lymph node metastasis

•

N1

Metastasis in 1-2 regional lymph nodes

•

N2

Metastasis in 3-6 lymph nodes

•

N3

Metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes

•

M0

No Metastasis

•

M1

Distant Metastsis

Group staging
Stage
•
0

T
T1

N
N0

M
M0

•

1A

T1

N0

MO(G1,2)

•

1B

T1

N0

M0(G3)

T2

N0

M0(G1,2)

•
•

IIA

T2

N0

M0(G3)

•

IIB

T3

N0

M0

T1-2

N1

M0

T1-2

N2

M0

•

T3

N1

M0

•

T4a

N0

M0

•
•

IIIA

71

•

IIIB

T3

N2

M0

•

IIIC

T4a

N1-2

M0

•

T4b

any

M0

•

any

N3

M0

• IV

any

any

M1

TREATMENT
Neoadjuvant Therapy-All patients with growths T2N0 and beyond should receive 4 # of
Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy with two drug regime of any combination including platinum and
taxane based drugs can be used too
Surgery-Surgery remains the gold standard in treatment of carcinoma GEJunction
Since Surgery involves thoracic surgery and post operative critical care, treatment of
GEJunctionmalignancies should be undertaken where facilities and expertise for thoracic
surgery and critical care are available
Contraindications to Resection-Surgical resection should not be considered in the following
circumstances
· T4b lesion
•

Left supra-clavicular node

•

Distant metastasis

•

Multi-station bulky nodal mass

•

Poor general condition

•

Co-morbid medical conditions making patient unfit for anesthesia

Treatment
Treatment of Barrets esophagus
Low grade and High grade dysplasia and Metaplasia can be observed, however Barrets
esophagus needs active treatment and close follows. Barrets Esophagus can be treated with
Proton Pump inhibiters, Treatment of H pylori infection, Cox Inhibiters. Surgery for GERD and
Hiatus hernia prevent formation and progress of Barrets esophagus and in certain
circumstances when the segment is large or persistent and progressing then surgical
management with resection may have to be resorted to
Treatment of Adenocarcinoma GE Junction
Preoparative laproscopy may be undertaken before the definitive surgery to assess operability
Segmantal Resection-The involved Segment can be excised with a margin of 5 cms through a
left thoraco abdominal incision,running along the left 7th rib,upto the umbilicus (Sweet-Garloch
incision) Continuity is maintained with gastro esophagectomy and D2 nodal dissection is done
72

with the resection of the involved segment.This procedure can only be undertaken if the growth
is below the diaphragmatic hiatus.Anastamosis can be done handsewn or stapled.
Partial Esophagectomy (Ivor-Lewis Procedure)
This procedure is performed for cancers of the GEJunction invoving the lower third of the
esophagus with a right thoracotomy and upper midline laparotomy incision. The lower third of
esophagus is excised with a margin of 5 cms and anastamosis done with the gastric tube is done
in the mediastinum.Mobolization of stomach,formation of gastric tube and nodal dissection
remain the same as for segmental esophagectomy
Total Esophagectomy with two field nodal dissection to avoid a mediastinal anastamosis,Total
esophagectomt can be performed for GEJunction cancers involving the lower third oesophagus.
This includes the removal of complete esophagus, removal of paraesophageal lymphnodes and
D2 dissection of gastric lymphnodes, and using a stomach tube as conduit to restore continuity
with anastamosis with cervical esophagus in the left side of the neck. This can be done by
following two procedures
· Transthoracic Total Esophagetomy (TTE), which includes a right posterolateral
thoracotomy for mobilization of esophagus and paraesophageal nodal
dissection ,mobilization of stomach with D2 nodal dissection of gastric lymph
nodes ,total esophagectomy, gastric mobilization and formation of gastric tube through
a upper midline laparotomy incision and pulling up the gastric tube and anastamosing
with proximal esophagus in the left side of the neck.A minimum of 15 nodes should be
dissected for adequate nodal dissection.Mobilisation of the esophagus can also be done
by VATS( Video Assisted Thoracic Surgery)
·

Transhiatal Total esophagectomy(THE) -Is a two step procedure where the thoracotomy
is excluded and the esophagus is mobilized blindly thorugh transehiatal route.Adequate
paraesophageal nodal dissection is not possible through this procedure,however it
avoids a thoracotomy.

Total Gastrectomy with excision of lower third esophagus-Siewert’s Type three carcinomas of
GEJunction which extend into proximal stomach are treated with total gastrectomy and excision
of lower esophagus through a thoraco abdominal incision.Nodal Diseection remains the same
nad continuity is restored with esophagojejunostomy.
Early Carcinoma of GEJunction-It is rare to find early cases of cancer GEJunction in
india,however small T1 lesions can be treated by any of the following procedures
• Endoscopic mucosal resection
•

Endoscopic submucosal resection

•

Radiofrequency ablation

•

Photodynamic therapy

•

Cryotherapy
73

•

Local excision

Histopathological Examination-Opertaive specimen should be examined for the following
• Histology
•

Grade

•

Margins

•

Depth of invasion

•

Involvement of extra esophageal tissue

•

Lymphovascular invasion

•

Number of nodes dissected

•

Number of nodes involved

•

Perinodal & Perineural infiltration

•

Her-2 Neu by FISH in metastatic disease

Adjuvant therapyR0 RESECTION
• NO PREOP THERAPY
Ø T1,T2,N0 ,OBSERVE
Ø T3 /N+, CCRT
•

AFTER NACT
Ø T2NO, CHEMOTHERAPY
Ø T3 /N+
CCRT

R1/R2 RESECTION CCRT
Management of Unresectable tumors or of patients with poor performance status
Definitive CCRT-Concurrent Radiotherapy with 6000Gy of radiotherapy with either of
the following combination of drugs.
• Cisplatin and 5FU
•

Paclitaxel/Docetaxel with 5FU

74

Management of Metastatic disease- Metastatic disease is managed with single or two drug
regime using chemotherapy platinum,taxanes and 5-FU or supportive care. TRANSTUZUMAB
(Herceptine)can be used for HER2 neu + cases
Paliative Care
Obstruction
• Endoscopic lumen restoration
•

Laser excision

•

Endoscopic lumen enhancement
Ø Expandable stents
Ø Wire guided balloon dilatation

•

Surgical placement of gastrostomy or jejunostomy tube

•

Palliative Chemotherapy

BLEEDING
• Endoscopic intervention
•

EBRT

PAIN
• Local blocks
•

Painkilllers

FOLLOWUP
All patients of GEJunction to be followed regularly after completion of treatment, to look for
· Anastamotic Stricture
· Anastamotic recurrence
· Local recurrence
· Nodal recurrence
· Distant Metastasis ( Liver and lung)
Frequency of follow-up-Once in every three months for two years and then six monthly till five
years post treatment, followed by annual review, lifelong
Following Investigation sto be done at Review
· Hb,TLC,DLC
· LFT
· X-ray chest
· USG Abdomen
75

·
·

UGI Scopy ,once in a year
CECT Chest( Optioanl,without any symptoms)

Prevention
· Avoid alcohol and High calori diet
· Avoid obesity
· Treat GERD
· Tretament of Barrets esophagus

FLOWCHART
Tis ----------------------------------- Endoscopic Mucosal Resection/Ablation
T1a------------------------------------Endoscopic Mucosal Resection/Ablation OR Surgery
T1b---------------------------------- Surgery
T2,3,4 N0,1,2,3-------------------Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy------------------- Surgery
Choice of Surgery
GEJunction Tumours-Segmental Resection
GEJunction cancers with Involvement of lower third esophagus
---Partial or total
esophagectomy
GEJunction cancers with involvement of proximal stomach-Total gastrectomy and
segmental resection of GEJunction.
Post Surgery------------R0 RESECTION
• NO PREOP THERAPY
§
§
•

T1,T2,N0 ,OBSERVE
T3 /N+, CCRT

AFTER NACT
§
§

T2NO, CHEMOTHERAPY
T3 /N+
CCRT

R1/R2 RESECTION---------- CCRT
Poor Performance status-------------------------------------------------------Definitive CCRT
Metastatic Disease/recurrence--------------------------Chemotherapy or Supportive care
REFERANCES
NCCN Guidelines 2011
CANCER-Principles & practice of oncology-Devita (7th & 8th Edition)

76

Cancer cervix
Introduction : Cervical cancer is major world health problem for the women. It is the third
most common cancer worldwide (1,2) and is the most common cancer among women in
India. Every year about 1,32,000 Indian women are diagnosed of cervical cancer and over
80,000 die of the disease (IARC estimates) (3). In recent years, molecular biology has firmly
established a causal relationship between persistent infection with high risk human papilloma
virus (HPV) genotypes and cervical cancer. Other epidemiological risk factors are early age of
onset of coitus, larger number of sexual partners , smoking, high parity,prolonged
contraceptive use, sexually transmitted disease and chronic immunosuppression(4) Cervical
cancer progresses slowly from preinvasive cervical intraepithelial neoplasia to invasive cancer.
It is a preventable cancer and successfully treatable when diagnosed in early stages where
reported survival is more than 90%(5)
It is important to render the optimal treatment to these women to achieve the best survival
as well as the quality of life. Gynae Oncologist / Gynaecologist trained in Oncology for at least
one year in prestigious cancer center should preferably treat these patients jointly with
Radiation Oncologist & Medical Oncologist as the management includes complex surgeries
and multimodality team approach.
Considerations have been given to the available facility for investigations and the expertise
available for treating cervical cancer in developing these guidelines.
When to suspect: Symptoms
Precancerous condition & early stage cervical cancer have no symptoms.
Following symptoms require proper evaluation for cervical cancer
Increased vaginal discharge
Contact Spotting / Bleeding
Inter menstrual Bleeding
Postmenopausal Vaginal Bleeding
Pain Lower Abdomen &
Backache

Incidence of the cervical cancer in our country :
1, 32,000 Cases of cervical cancer are diagnosed every year.
Mortality : 80,000 cases die of cervical cancer every year.( IARC )
(3)

77

Differential diagnosis :
Cervical Polyp, Endocervical / Endometrial polyp presenting at cervix., cervical Leiomyoma &
Condyloma cervix

Prevention & Counseling :
Primary prevention :
HPV Vaccination :
Vaccination against HPV-16 and HPV-18 reduces incident and persistent infections with efficacy
of 91.6% (95% CI, 64.5–98.0) and 100% (95% CI, 45–100), respectively.(6)
Barrier protection and/or spermicidal gel during sexual intercourse and avoiding the following
high risk epidemiological factors.(4)
Cigarette Smoking
High Parity
Long-term use of oral contraceptives (>5 Years)

Secondary Prevention :
Screening via Gynecologic Examinations and Cytologic Screening
Precancerous condition have no symptoms and is discovered on routine screening tests &
usually diagnosed on colposcopic directed biopsy examination.(7)
Regular gynecologic examinations
Cytologic test (Papanicolaou smear)
HPV DNA Testing

78

In low resource settings the following alternative approaches of VIA & VILI can be implemented
effectively where Pap Test is not feasible for the mass screening because of the lack of trained
manpower, infrastructure, quality assurance & the cost involved (8)
Visual Inspection of cervix with Acetic Acid (VIA)
VILI ( Visual Inspection of cervix with Lugol’s Iodine)

Secondary prevention : Treatment of the premalignant cervical lesions.
Estimates from population studies in the developed countries suggest that screening using the
Pap Test may decrease cancer incidence and mortality by more than 80%.(9)

V) Optimal Diagnostic Criteria, Investigations, Treatment & Referral criteria
Situation 1 : At Secondary Hospital / Non- Metro situation : Optimal Standards of treatment in
situations where technology and resources are limited.

a) Diagnostic criteria :

History
Physical Examination & gynaecological examination including Per Vaginal & Per Rectal
Examination.
Definitive Diagnosis : On histopathology of cervical growth/ lesion biopsy either punch / knife
/ Colposcopic Biopsy / Endocervical curettage / Diagnostic LEEP
Cone biopsy ( indicated for diagnosis of microinvasive cervical cancer )

b) Investigations :
Histopathology/ Pathologic review
Blood : Hb%, CBC, KFT, LFT, Blood Sugar F & PP, HbsAg, HIV
Imaging :
X-ray Chest,
USG Whole abdomen & TVS ( For Measuring the tumor size) or
CECT/ MRI Whole abdomen when facility exists / IVP (Clinically Parametrial involvement is
suspected and the CT facility is not available )
79

EUA,Cystoscopy / Sigmoidoscopy when parametrial / bladder / rectal involvement is
suspected.
Other Investigations if required based on comorbid conditions.

c) Cancer Cervix is staged as per the FIGO Staging 2009(9)
Carcinoma of the cervix uteri.
Stage I : The carcinoma is strictly confined to the cervix (extension to the corpus
would be disregarded)
IA
Invasive carcinoma which can be diagnosed only by microscopy, with
deepest invasion ≤5 mm and largest extension ≥7 mm
IA1
Measured stromal invasion of ≤3.0 mm in depth and extension of ≤7.0 mm
IA2
Measured stromal invasion of >3.0 mm and not >5.0 mm with an extension
of not >7.0 mm
IB
Clinically visible lesions limited to the cervix uteri or pre-clinical cancers
greater than stage IA ⁎
IB1
Clinically visible lesion ≤4.0 cm in greatest dimension
IB2
Clinically visible lesion >4.0 cm in greatest dimension
Stage II
Cervical carcinoma invades beyond the uterus, but not to the pelvicwall or to the
lower third of the vagina
IIA
Without parametrial invasion
IIA1 Clinically visible lesion ≤4.0 cm in greatest dimension
IIA2 Clinically visible lesion >4 cm in greatest dimension
IIB
With obvious parametrial invasion
Stage III
The tumor extends to the pelvic wall and/or involves lower third of the
vagina and/or causes hydronephrosis or non-functioning kidney ⁎⁎
IIIA
Tumor involves lower third of the vagina, with no extension to the pelvicwall
IIIB
Extension to the pelvic wall and/or hydronephrosis or non-functioning
kidney
Stage IV
The carcinoma has extended beyond the true pelvis or has involved (biopsy
proven) the mucosa of the bladder or rectum. A bullous edema, as such, does not permit
a case to be allotted to Stage IV
IVA
Spread of the growth to adjacent organs
IVB
Spread to distant organs
⁎
All macroscopically visible lesions—even with superficial invasion—are allotted to stage
IB carcinomas. Invasion is limited to a measured
stromal invasion with amaximal depth of 5.00 mm and a horizontal extension of not
>7.00 mm. Depth of invasion should not be >5.00mmtaken from the base of the
epithelium of the original tissue—superficial or glandular. The depth of invasion should
always be reported in mm, even in those cases with “early (minimal) stromal invasion”
(~1 mm).
80

⁎⁎

The involvement of vascular/lymphatic spaces should not change the stage allotment.
On rectal examination, there is no cancer-free space between the tumor and the
pelvic wall. All cases with hydronephrosis or non-functioning kidney are included,unless
they are known to be due to another cause.

d) Treatment : Is decided based on the FIGO staging of the
cervical cancer . (As described with the situation 2)

Standard Operative procedures :
Inpatient :
Type I Hysterectomy with or without Salpingo oophorectomy
Trachelectomy
Type II / III Radical hysterectomy with or without Salpingo oophoprectomy &
Pelvic lymphadenectomy
Outpatient : Biopsy / ECC / Colposcopy / Diagnostic LEEP Cervix
Day Care : EUA / Cone Biopsy ./ LEEP Cervix ( Loop Eletric excision procedure) & Cystoscopy/
Sigmoidoscopy.

Referral Criteria :
Diagnosed cases of cervical cancer should preferably be referred to Regional Cancer Centre /
Nearest Cancer centre / Hospital with facility of Radiation Therapy / Gynae Cancer Surgery
Suspecious cases with diagnostic dilemma.
Young patients with the diagnosis of early stage cervical cancer who opt for fertility
preserving surgery.

Situation 2: At superspaeciality Facility in Metro location where higher – end technology is
available.
a) Diagnostic criteria : are similar to that in Situation 1.

History

81

Complete Physical examination, Gynaecological examination including Per Vaginal & Per
Rectal Examination.
Definitive Diagnosis :
On histopathology of cervical growth biopsy / endocervical biopsy / Endocervical curettage /
Cone Biopsy Cervix / Diagnostic LEEP Cervix
b) Investigations

Histopathology / Pathologic review
Blood : Hb%, CBC, KFT, LFT, Blood Sugar F & PP, HbsAg, HIV
Imaging : X-ray Chest, CECT/ PET CT (Optional )/ MRI

EUA,Optional in stage IB2 and greater / doubtful parametrial involvement.
Cystoscopy /Sigmoidoscopy when bladder/ bowel involvement is suspected.
Other investigations required for the co- morbid conditions.

c) Cervical Cancer is staged as per the FIGO 2009 Criteria.

Treatment

PRIMARY TREATMENT DEPENDING ON THE CLINICAL STAGE of the disease.
In early stage of the disease, stage IB & IIA similar cure rates are achieved with either primary
surgery or radiation therapeutic treatment. The choice between the primary surgical or
radiotherapeutic treatment depends on the age of the patient, co- morbid conditions,
facilities & expertise available.(10)

Stage IA1
• Extrafascial hysterectomy
or
• Observe if patient desires fertility or if inoperable (11)
(only if cone biopsy has negative margins & no LVSI)
82

or
• Modified radical hysterectomy or trachelectomy
+ pelvic lymph node dissection if lymphovascular invasion
Or
ICRT when unfit for Surgery (12)
Dose 10,000 – 12,500 cGy at vaginal surface
Stage IA2
• Modified Radical hysterectomy (Type II ) +pelvic lymph node dissection
+/- para aortic lymph node sampling (13)
or
• Brachytherapy +/- pelvic RT(total point A dose : 75-80 Gy)
or
• Radical trachelectomy + pelvic lymph node dissection
+/- paraaortic lymph node sampling.(14)

Stage IB1 & IIA1
• Radical hysterectomy + pelvic lymph node dissection
+/- paraaortic lymph node sampling (category 1)(5)
or
• Pelvic RT + brachytherapy (total point A dose : 80-85Gy)
or
• Radical trahelectomy for tumors</= 2cm (Stage IB1)(14)
+pelvic lymph node dissection +/- paraaortic lymph node sampling.
Laproscopic Surgery: The role of minimal access surgery in management of cervical cancer is
evolving at present. Presently, laparoscopic radical hysterectomy with pelvic lymphadenectomy
can be offered to patients with stage IB1 cervical cancer as an alternative to the open
abdominal radical hysterectomy in suitable patients with a low BMI and no major co‐morbid
conditions. For optimizing results of the procedure, it should be done only by surgeons trained
in the application of advanced laparoscopic surgery to gynecological cancer management and in
specialized cancer centres with a large volume gynecologic oncological
Stage IB2 & Stage IIA2
Treatment options
• Pelvic RT + concurrent cisplatin containing chemotherapy
+ brachytherapy (total point A dose >/= 85Gy( category 1)(15,16)
or
• Radical Hysterectomy + pelvic lymph node dissection
83

+ paraaortic lymph node sampling ( category 2B)
or
• Pelvic RT + concurrent cisplatin containing chemotherapy
+ brachytherapy (total point A dose 75-80Gy)
adjuvant hysterectomy (category 3)( 15)

Histopathology
Tumor size, type, Grade, Lymphovascular space involvement, involvement of vagina,
microinvasion of the parametrium, Number of nodes dissected, Number of positive nodes.
Involvement of the Endometrium/ tubes/ ovaries or any coexisting pathology

ADJUVANT TREATMENT DEPENDING ON SURGICAL FINDINGS
➢ Negative Nodes
1. Pelvic RT if combination of high risk factors (category 1)
(ie large primary tumor ,deep stromal invasion ,and/or lymphovascular space invasion)(17)

2. No above risk factors : Observe
➢ Positive Pelvic nodes and/or Positive surgical margin and /or Positive parametrium
1. Pelvic RT + concurrent cisplatin containing chemotherapy
(category 1)(18)
+/- vaginal brachytherapy.
➢ Paraaortic lymph node positive by surgical staging
A. Chest CT / PET CT scan Negative
Paraaortic lymph node RT + concurrent cisplatin containing chemotherapy
+ Pelvic RT +/- brachytherapy.
B. Chest CT / PET CT Scan Positive for distant metastases
1. Suspicious Areas Biopsy Negative
• Paraaortic lymph node RT + concurrent cisplatin containing chemotherapy
+ Pelvic RT +/- brachytherapy
2. Suspicious Areas Biopsy Positive
▪ Systemic therapy +/- individualized RT.
PRIMARY TREATMENT DEPENDING ON THE CLINICAL STAGE
Stage IB2, Stage IIA2, Stage IIB, IIIA ,IIIB ,IVA
84

A. Radiological Imaging CT/ MRI / PET(19,20)
A1. Negative Adenopathy : Pelvic RT + concurrent cisplatin containing chemotherapy
+ brachytherapy.
A2. Positive Adenopathy : Consider needle Biopsy.
B. Surgical staging : Extraperitoneal or laparoscopic lymph node dissection (category 2
B)(21)
B1.Para aortic Nodes Negative : Pelvic RT + concurrent cisplatin containing chemotherapy
(category 1)+ brachytherapy.
B2. Para aortic nodes Positive : See node status.
Stage IB2, Stage IIA2, Stage IIB, IIIA ,IIIB ,IVA Node Status
A. Pelvic lymph node positive & Paraaortic lymph node negative by surgical staging
Pelvic RT + concurrent cisplatin containing chemotherapy
(category 1)+ brachytherapy.
B. Paraaortic lymph node positive by surgical staging
B1. Further radiologic workup negative for distant metastases:
Pelvic RT + paraaortic lymph node RT +concurrent cisplatin containing chemotherapy
+ brachytherapy.
B2. Further radiologic workup positive for distant metastases:Consider Biopsy of suspicious
areas.
If Biopsy Negative:
Pelvic RT + paraaortic lymph node RT + concurrent cisplatin containing chemotherapy
+ brachytherapy.
If Biopsy positive:
Systemic therapy +/- Individualized RT.
SURVEILLANCE
• Interval H& P.
• Cervical / vaginal cytology every 3-6 months for 2 yrs,then every 6 months for 3-5 yrs,then
annually.
• Chest X Ray anually (optional)
85

• CBC, BUN, creatinine every 6 months (optional)
• PET CT scan as clinically indicated.
• Recommended use of vaginal dilator after RT.
• Patient education regarding symptoms.
Standard Operating Procedure
Inpatient : All major / radical surgical Procedures
Type I Hysterectomy with or without bilateral salpingo oophorectomy
Type II / Type III Radical Hysterectomy with or without salpingo
oophorectomy with Pelvic Lymphadenectomy.
Radical hysterectomy (type III) and bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy involves removal of
entire uterus, upper third vagina, bilateral parametria, uterosacral, utero‐vesical ligaments and
bilateral pelvic lymph nodes. Bilateral salpino‐oophrectomy is discretionary.
Radical trachelectomy
Para aortic Lymphadenectomy / Sampling
Outpatient : Colposcopy Biopsy, ECC, Diagnostic LEEP Cervix.
Day Care : EUA & Cystoscopy, Rectosigmoidoscopy,Cone Biopsy
Referral Criteria :
On diagnosis of the cervical cancer on histopathology.
Young women with early stage ca cx opting for the fertility preserving surgery the patient
should be referred to the Gynae Oncology, Tertiary Cancer centre.

Who does what? And Timelines
Doctor :
Specialist : Primarily should be seen by Gynae Oncologist / Gynaecologist trained in oncology
for at least 1 year in prestigious cancer centre.
Diagnosis
Workup
Clinical Staging
Treatment plan in multidisciplinary tumor board
Primary surgery / Radiationtherapy / Concurrent chemo radiation therapy
Average time from diagnosis to execution of the treatment should be 2-3 weeks.

86

Nurse : Counseling
To Implement orders
Onco nursing
Doctor patient co-ordination

Technician:
Technical Inputs of respective field.
Radiotherapy technician
Operating theatre technician

Further Readings / References:

1. Parkin DM , Bray F, Ferlay J,Pisani P . Global cancer statistics , 2002.
CA Cancer J Clin 2005; 55: 74 – 7108.

2. Kamangar F, Dores GM, Anderson WF. Patterns of cancer incidence , mortality and prevalance
across five continents: defining priorities to reduce cancer disparities in different geographic
regions of the world. J Clin Oncol 2006;24: 2137- 2150.
3. Cancer survival in developing countries. Sankaranarayanan R, Black RB, Parkin DM, Editors.
Lyon: IARC Press; 1998 (IARC Scientific Publications No. 145).

4. Comparision of risk factors for invasive squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma of the
cervix : collaborative reanalysis of individual data on 8,097 women with squamous cell
carcinoma and 1,374 women with adenocarcinoma from 12 epidemiological studies.Int. J
Cancer 2007;120:885-891.
5. Sarieni P. Lancet 1991;338:818-19.
6. Paavonen J, Naud P, Salmeron J,et al .Efficacy of human papillomavirus ( HPV) – 16/18 AS04adjuvanted vaccine against cervical infection and precancer caused by oncogenic HPV types
(PATRICA) : Final analysis of a double blind , randomized study in young women .Lancet
2009;374(9686) :301-314.
7 . Shankaraman R et al :
Cancer Nov 15; 1998; 83 (10) : 2150-56.
8. Visual inspection of the uterine cervix after the application of acetic acid in the detection of
87

cervical carcinoma and its precursors.
Sankaranarayana R, Wesley R, Somanathan T et al.
Cancer 1998;83: 2150-56.
9. Sergio Pecorelli et al International Journal of Gynecology and Obstetrics 105 (2009) 103–104
10. Randomised study of radical surgery versus radiotherapy for stage Ib- IIa cervical cancer.
Landoni F,Maneo A, Colombo A et al.Lancet 1997;350:535-40.
11. Microinvasive carcinoma of the cervix.

Sevin BU ,Nadji M, Averette HE, Hilsenbeck S, Smith D, Lampe B.Cancer 1992;70:2121-8.
12. Radiotherapy alone for medically inoperable carcinoma of the cervix : stage IA & carcinoma

in situ.
Grigsby PW, Perez CA.Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1991;21:375-8.

13. Early invasive carcinoma of the cervix .
Jones WB, Mercer GO, Lewis JL, Rubin SC, Hoskins WI.Gynecol oncol 1993;51: 26-32.

14. Diaz JP, Sonoda Y ,Leitao MM ,et al. Oncologic outcome of fertility – sparing radical
trachelectomy versus radical hysterectomy for stage IB1 cervical carcinoma . Gynecol Oncol
2008;111:255- 260.
15. Keys HM,Bundy BN ,Stehman FB,et al .Cisplatin , radiation & adjuvant hysterectomy for
bulky stage IB cervical carcinoma .N Engl J Med 1999;340:1154-1161.

16. Morris M, Eifel PJ ,Lu J ,et al. Pelvic radiation with concurrent chemotherapy compared with
pelvic & paraaortic radiation for high risk cervical cancer . N Engl J Med 1999;340:1137-1143.
17. Sedlis A, Bundy BN ,Rotman MZ,et al .A randomized trial of pelvic radiation therapy versus
no further therapy in selected patients with stage IB carcinoma of the cervix after radical
hysterectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy : A Gynecologic oncology group Study.Gynecol
Oncol 1999;73:177-183.

18. Peters WA, Liu PY ,Barrett RJ, et al. Concurrent chemotherapy & pelvic radiation therapy
compared with pelvic radiation therapy alone as adjuvant therapy after radical surgery in high
risk early stage cancer of the cervix. J Clin Oncol 2000;18:1606-1613.

19. Park JY , Kim EN, Kim DY ,et al.Comparision of the validity of magnetic resonance imaging &
positron emission tomography/ computed tomography in the preoperative evaluation of
88

patients with uterine corpus cancer. Gynecol Oncol 2008;108 :486-492.
20. Boughanim M , Leboulleuq S, Rey A,et al. Histologic results of paraaortic lymphadenectomy
in patients treated for Stage IB2/II cervical cancer with negative [18F] fluorodeoxyglucose
positron emission tomography scans in the paraaortic area.J Clin Oncol 2008;26:2558 – 2561.

21. Goff BA, Muntz HG,Paley PJ ,et al. Impact of surgical staging in women with locally advanced
cervical cancer. Gynecol oncol 1999;74:436-442.

89

CARCINOMA ESOPHAGUS
Col (Prof) Sanjay Kapoor VSM,HOD Oncology
Command Hospital Lucknow
CASE DEFINITION
Carcinoma Esophagus is the commonest cancer in Asian belt along China, Kazhakistan (endemic
zone) .It is associated with poor socioeconomic status, nutritional deficiencies, smoking, alcohol
and tobacco intake and eating of pickled food. H Pylori infection, hiatus hernia and GERD are
predisposing factors for carcinoma esophagus. In India it is most common in North East and
constitutes 3-10 % of all malignancies in various regions/States
WHEN TO SUSPECT
Presenting Symptoms
Most common presenting feature of carcinoma esophagus is dysphagia, initially to solids and
then to liquids. Other symptoms that patient may present with are
· Odynophagia
· Features of GERD
· Dyspepsia
· Loss of weight
· Anorexia
· Left supraclavicular node
· Haematemesis
· Vomiting
Differential Diagnosis
All elderly patients presenting with long standing dyspepsia and features of GERD or with
anorexia, loss of weight and dysphagia,should be investigated for carcinoma esophagus
Common differential diagnosis are
· GERD
· Achlasia cardia
· Hiatus Hernia
· Esophageal diverticulum or stricture
Examination
Besides the routine general and systemic examination, patient should be assessed for
· General condition
· Nutritional status
· Pallor
· Left supraclavicular node
WORKUP FOR DIAGNOSIS AND STAGING
Investigations90

Following investigations are mandatory for assessing any suspected or diagnosed case of
Carcinoma Esophagus
· Upper GI Endoscopy –To see for
Ø Presence of growth
Ø Site of growth
Ø Nature of growth
Ø Vertical and circumferential extent of growth
Ø Passage of scope beyond the growth
Ø Status of stomach
Ø Presence of Barrets esophagus
( Naso gastric feeding tube to be placed if esophageal lumen found to be
obstructed)
· Endoscopic Biopsy- from representative site. Following to be assessed
Ø Histology
Ø Differentiation
Ø Presence of Barrets
· CECT Chest and upper abdomen-To see for
Ø Vertical and Horizontal extent of diseases
Ø Adherence or infiltration of surrounding structures like trachea, main bronchus,
aorta and pericardium
Ø Para esophageal nodes
Ø Involvement of GE Junction and proximal stomach in the lower third esophageal
and GEJunction cancers
Ø Liver metastasis
Ø Pericardial and plural effusion
Ø Ascitis
Ø Perigastric lymphnodes
· FNAB of left supraclavicular node if present and left scalene pad of fat biopsy if
nodularity felt
· Hb, TLC, DLC, blood grouping
· Biochemistry-LFT,RFT, Blood Sugar, Electrolytes and platelets
· ECG
· Ba Swallow-for lower third and GE Junction tumors
· Bronchoscopy for Upper and middle third carcinoma esophagus
Optinal Investigations
Following Investigations are optional and may be done in tertiary care centres where
facilities are available
91

·
·
·
·

Endoscopic Ultrasound
Endoscopic ultrasonographic FNAB of paraesophageal nodes
PET Scan
Her 2 Ney receptor study by FISH technique on biopsy specimen

STAGING (AJCC 7th Ed 2010)
• Tis
High grade dysplasia (ca in situ)
•

T1a

Tumour invades lamina propria or muscularis mucosa

•

T1b

Tumour invades submucosa

•

T2

Tumour invades muscularis propria

•

T3

Tumour invades adventitia

•

T4a

Resectable tumour invading pleura, pericardium or diaphragm

•

T4b Unresectable tumour invading other adjacent structures, such as aorta,
vertebral body, trachea etc

•

Nx

Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed

•

N0

No regional lymph node metastasis

•

N1

Metastasis in 1-2 regional lymph nodes

•

N2

Metastasis in 3-6 lymph nodes

•

N3

Metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes

•

M0

No Metastasis

•

M1

Distant Metastsis

Group staging
Stage
•
0

T
T1

N
N0

M
M0

•

1A

T1

N0

MO(G1,2)

•

1B

T1

N0

M0(G3)

T2

N0

M0(G1,2)

T2

N0

M0(G3)

•
•

IIA

92

•

IIB

T3

N0

M0

T1-2

N1

M0

T1-2

N2

M0

•

T3

N1

M0

•

T4a

N0

M0

•
•

IIIA

•

IIIB

T3

N2

M0

•

IIIC

T4a

N1-2

M0

•

T4b

any

M0

•

any

N3

M0

• IV

any

any

M1

Pathology
Almost 95% cancers of the Esophagus are Squamous cell carcinomas (excluding GE Junctions
carcinomas) and the remaining may be Adenocarcinoma, soft tissue sarcoma, GIST and benign
soft tissue tumors
TREATMENT
Neoadjuvant Therapy-All patients with growths T2N0 and beyond should receive Neoadjuvant
Chemoradiation with 5000Gy of radiotherapy with weekly Cis/Carbo platin and 5
Fu.Chemotherapy with two drug regime of any combination including platinum and taxane
based drugs can be used too
Surgery-Surgery remains the gold standard in treatment of carcinoma esophagus
Since Surgery involves thoracic surgery and post operative critical care, treatment of esophageal
malignancies should be undertaken where facilities and expertise for thoracic surgery and
critical care are available
Contraindications to Resection-Surgical resection should not be considered in the following
circumstances
· T4b lesion
•

Left supra-clavicular node

•

Distant metastasis

•

Multi-station bulky nodal mass

•

Poor general condition

93

•

Co-morbid medical conditions making patient unfit for anaesthesia

Carcinomas of the cervical esophagus should be treated with Concomitant Chemo and Radio
Therapy (CCRT)
Treatment of Squamous Cell carcinoma Esophagus
Preoperative Laprotomy can be done to asses operability
Total Esophagectomy with two field nodal dissection is the preferred surgery for carcinoma
esophagus.
This includes the removal of complete esophagus, removal of paraesophageal lymphnodes and
D2 dissection of gastric lymphnodes, and using a stomach tube as conduit to restore continuity
with anastamosis in the left side of the neck. This can be done by following two procedures
· Transthoracic Total Esophagetomy (TTE), which includes a right posterolateral
thoracotomy for mobilization of esophagus and paraesophageal nodal
dissection ,mobilization of stomach with D2 nodal dissection of gastric lymph
nodes ,total esophagectomy, gastric mobilization and formation of gastric tube through
a upper midline laparotomy incision and pulling up the gastric tube and anastamosing
with proximal esophagus in the left side of the neck.A minimum of 15 nodes should be
dissected for adequate nodal dissection.Mobilisation of the esophagus can also be done
by VATS( Video Assisted Thoracic Surgery)
·

Transhiatal Total esophagectomy(THE) -Is a two step procedure where the thoracotomy
is excluded and the esophagus is mobilized blindly thorugh transehiatal route.Adequate
paraesophageal nodal dissection is not possible through this procedure,however it
avoids a thoracotomy.Being a blind procedure Transhiatal Total esophagectomy should
be undertakem,preferably only for cancers of the lower third esophagus.

Partial Esophagectomy (Ivor-Lewis Procedure)
This procedure is performed for cancers of the lower third esophagus with a right thoracotomy
and upper midline laparotomy incision. The lower third of esophagus is excised with a margin of
5 cms and anastamosis done with the gastric tube is done in the mediastinum.Mobolization of
stomach,formation of gastric tube and nodal dissection remain the same as for total
esophagectomy
Management of Carcinoma Esophagus in special situations
Early Carcinoma esophagus-It is rare to find early cases of cancer esophagus in india,however
small T1 lesion scan be treated by any of the following procedures
• Endoscopic mucosal resection
•

Endoscopic submucosal resection

•

Radiofrequency ablation

•

Photodynamic therapy
94

•

Cryotherapy

•

Local excision

GE Junction Cancers-Squamous Cell carcinoma of GE Junction-should be treated as Carcinoma
esophagus with partial or total esophagectomy
Involvement of proximal Stomach-Squamous cell carcinomas of GEJunction or lower third
esophagus rarely involve proximal stomach,but if they do then surgical produre will depend on
the extent of involvement.If thre is minimal involvement and adequate margin can be obtained
and adequate length of the gastric tube can be formed then proximal gastrectomt can be
performed with total esophagectomy.
Histopathological Examination-Opertaive specimen should be examined for the following
• Histology
•

Grade

•

Margins

•

Depth of invasion

•

Involvement of extra esophageal tissue

•

Lymphovascular invasion

•

Number of nodes dissected

•

Number of nodes involved

•

Perinodal & Perineural infiltration

•

Her-2 Neu by FISH in metastatic disease

Adjuvant therapyR0 resection-Observe (Note 1. Cases where less than 15 nodes are dissected, can be
treated as
R1 Resection 2, nodal Status cannot be adequately assessed after THE or Partial
esophagectomy)
R1/R2 Resection-CCRT
Management of Adenocarcinoma Esophagus- The Surgical management of adenocarcinoma
Esophagus is same as that of Squamous cell carcinoma but Neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy
differs and is as follows
Neoadjuvant therapy-All patients with growths T2N0 and beyond should receive four cycles of
chemotherapy with two drug regime of any combination including platinum and taxane based
drugs
95

Adjuvant therapy
R0 RESECTION
• NO PREOP THERAPY
Ø T1,T2,N0 ,OBSERVE
Ø T3 /N+, CCRT
•

AFTER NACT
Ø T2NO, CHEMOTHERAPY
Ø T3 /N+
CCRT

R1/R2 RESECTION CCRT
Management of other malignancies of esophagus-Soft Tissue sarcomas and GIST of esophagus
are to be treated with total esophagectomy without nodal dissection.Chemotherapy in these
cases chemotherapy would be same as that for soft tissue sarcomas and GIST of the rest of GI
Tract.Benign tumors can be managed with excision .
Management of Unresectable tumors or of patients with poor performance status
Definitive CCRT-Concurrent Radiotherapy with 6000Gy of radiotherapy with either of
the following combination of drugs.
• Cisplatin and 5FU
•

Paclitaxel/Docetaxel with 5FU

Management of Metastatic disease- Metastatic disease is managed with single or two drug
regime using chemotherapy platinum,taxanes and 5-FU or supportive care. TRANSTUZUMAB
(Herceptine)can be used for HER2 neu + cases
Paliative Care
Esophageal obstruction
• Endoscopic lumen restoration
•

Laser excision

•

Endoscopic lumen enhancement
Ø Expandable stents
Ø Wire guided balloon dilatation

•

Surgical placement of gastrostomy or jejunostomy tube

•

External Beam Radiotherapy

•

Palliative Chemotherapy

BLEEDING
• Endoscopic intervention
96

•

EBRT

PAIN
• Local blocks
•

Painkilllers

TRACHEO ESOPHAGEAL FISTULA
• Stenting
FOLLOWUP
All patients of Carcinoma esophagus to be followed regularly after completion of treatment, to
look for
· Anastamotic Stricture
· Anastamotic recurrence
· Local recurrence
· Nodal recurrence
· Distant Metastasis ( Liver and lung)
Frequency of follow-up-Once in every three months for two years and then six monthly till five
years post treatment, followed by annual review, lifelong
Following Investigation sto be done at Review
· Hb,TLC,DLC
· LFT
· X-ray chest
· USG Abdomen
· UGI Scopy ,once in a year
· CECT Chest( Optioanl,without any symptoms)
Prevention
· Decrease use of tobacco,alcohol and stop smoking
· Minimal or no use of poorly preserved,pickled and smoked food
· Improve hygiene
· Treat GERD
FLOWCHART
Squamous Cell Carcinoma & Adenocarcinoam
Tis ----------------------------------- Endoscopic Mucosal Resection/Ablation
T1a------------------------------------Endoscopic Mucosal Resection/Ablation OR Esophagectomy
T1b-----------------------------------Esophgectomy
Squamous Cell
T2,3,4 N0,1,2,3-------------------Neoadjuvant CCRT-------------------Esophagectomy
Post esophagectomty------------------R0-------------Observe
97

R1/2-----------CCRT
AdenoCarcinoma
T2,3,4 N0,1,2,3-------------------Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy-------------------Esophagectomy
Post esophagectomty-----------•

R0 RESECTION
NO PREOP THERAPY
§
§

•

T1,T2,N0 ,OBSERVE
T3 /N+, CCRT

AFTER NACT
§
§

T2NO, CHEMOTHERAPY
T3 /N+
CCRT

R1/R2 RESECTION---------- CCRT
Poor Performance status-------------------------------------------------------Definitive CCRT
Metastatic Disease/recurrence--------------------------Chemotherapy or Supportive care
REFERANCES
NCCN Guidelines 2011
CANCER-Principles & practice of oncology-Devita (7th & 8th Edition)

98

Esophageal cancer
WHEN TO SUSPECT
Presenting Symptoms
Most common presenting feature of esophageal cancer is dysphagia, initially to solids and then
to liquids. Other symptoms that patient may present with are
· Odynophagia
· Dyspepsia
· Loss of weight
· Anorexia
· Left supraclavicular node
· Haematemesis
· Vomiting
Investigations
Diagnostic Investigations
1. Barium Swallow (optional) : This continues to be the first investigation in majority of patients
presenting with dysphagia. It gives information regarding the 1. Site 2. length of lesion 3.
Morphology (Proliferative/Stricturous/ulcerative or combination) 4. Extra esophageal spread
(axis deviation, sinuses and fistulation)
2. Esophagoscopy : Fiberoptic esophagoscopy is essential for biopsy/cytology.
Staging Investigations
1. CT scan : Chest and upper abdomen
2. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS)
3. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy : for tumours located at and above the level of the carina

CT scan and EUS are complimentary for assessing the lateral extension of disease and lymph
node status. EUS scores over CT scan in assessment of the depth of tumour invasion, particularly
in early cancer, and status of regional lymph node. However, in stricturous lesions, EUS may not
always be possible. CT scan is equally accurate in assessment of T3/T4 lesions; abdominal CT
scan additionally can screen liver and coeliac lymph nodes. Bronchoscopy is an essential non
invasive investigation for assessing the tracheo-bronchial tree for early or frank invasion. It is
recommended prior to surgery or radiation for upper and mid esophageal disease.

99

PET scan can effectively detect presence of disseminated disease. However, presently it is an
investigational modality of investigation. Thoracoscopy and laparoscopy for staging has been
investigated and reported increased rate of detecting positive lymph nodes than non invasive
staging modalities (Level IIb).
Routine Investigations for assessing fitness for treatment
1. Hemogram
2. Liver Function Test/Renal Function Test
3. Chest X-ray
4. Pulmonary Function Test
5. ECG
Treatment Options
Two factors determine the treatment:
1. General condition or the Performance status
2. Stage
1. General condition or performance status is an important factor in determining the treatment
of a patient with cancer oesophagus. Dysphagia, particularly if it is long standing and complete,
leads to chronic dehydration and malnutrition. Such patients will not tolerate surgery, radiation
or chemotherapy. Supportive care to optimise general condition should be the priority.
Subsequently, if performance status improves, definitive treatment can be contemplated
depending on stage of the disease.
2. Stage : Patients with localized disease are ideally treated with surgery in the absence of
medical contraindications. As per the staging, presence of abdominal or celiac lymph nodes is
classified as disseminated disease. However prognosis of patients with abdominal or celiac
lymph node metastasis is not the same as that with systemic distant metastasis. Hence, patients
with operable local disease should be offered surgery with appropriate lymphadenectomy.
·

The preferred treatment of carcinoma of the cervical oesophagus is radical radiotherapy
or concomitant chemoradiotherapy

Stage 0 (TisN0M0)
Patients are rarely diagnosed in this stage. The treatment of choice is surgery. If the disease is
localised (preferably T1a), Endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) can be offered in centres with
expertise provided the patient is reliable for followup. For more extensive disease,
esophagectomy is the treatment of choice.
Stage I (T1N0M0)
Surgery is the treatment of choice. Radiation therapy may be offered if the patient is medically
unfit or not willing for surgery.

100

Stage II/III (T2N0M0, T3N0M0, T1N1M0, T2N1M0)
Surgery for T2 and T3 lesions
Surgery for T4 lesions with limited infiltration of pleura or pericardium which is amenable to
complete resection
Neo adjuvant chemotherapy/concomitant chemo-radiation for T3/T4 tumours which are bulky
or of doubtful resectability. If there is complete or partial response to neo adjuvant therapy and
tumour appears resectable patient should proceed for surgery; if the response is sub optimal
and disease appears non resectable, patient should either proceed for radiation or palliative
therapy (see below).
Investigational treatments
1. Chemoradiotherapy alone or chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery
2. Neo adjuvant Chemotherapy followed by surgery
3. Post operative radiation therapy
Stage IVa (ant T, any N, M1a)
Surgery (per primum or following neo adjuvant therapy): If the disease is operable in the
absence of distant metastases. However, more than 50% of patients will have distant
metastases. Such patients will be candidates for palliative treatment.
Principles of Surgery
Surgical Approach
1. Esophago-gastrectomy through left thoraco-abdominal approach (Garlock procedure) : for
adenocarcinoma of the cardio-esophageal junction.
2. Trans thoracic esophagectomy with intrathoracic anastomosis (Ivor Lewis procedure).
3. Trans thoracic total esophagectomy with cervical anastomosis.
4. Trans hiatal esophagectomy with cervical anastomosis.
Adenocarcinoma of the cardio-esophageal junction can be resected through a left
thoracoabdominal approach. Surgery involves mobilization of the oesophagus upto the inferior
pulmonary vein along with dissection of lower paraesophageal lymph nodes, standard
mobilization of stomach along with D2 lymphadenectomy. Gastro-oesophageal anastomoses
could be either mechanical (using stapler) or hand sewn.
Adenocarcinoma of the distal portion of the oesophagus or cardio-esophageal junction
extending into the lower oesophagus where the proximal extent of the tumour is such that
adequate margin is not possible through the left thoraco-abdominal approach should be treated
by either trans thoracic or trans hiatal esophagectomy. Phase III trial comparing transhiatal
esophagectomy to transthoracic esophagectomy and lymphadenectomy for adenocarcinoma of
the oesophagus did not find difference in median overall and disease free survival between the
two procedures. However, there was a trend towards superior long term (5-year) survival, not
reaching statistical significance, in favour of transthoracic esophagectomy (Level Ib).

101

Carcinoma of the lower, mid and upper esophagus (excluding cervical oesophagus) is managed
either by transhiatal or trans thoracic esophagectomy and esophago-gastric anastomosis in the
neck or thorax. There is no consensus as to the best or the ideal surgical approach.
Transthoracic esophagectomy has the advantage of mobilization of the oesophagus under
vision. Also, systematic mediastinal lymph node dissection can be performed. Trans hiatal
approach, according to proponents, is less morbid with fewer pulmonary complications. There
are four published Phase three trials comparing the two approaches. Three of these had few
patients and thus, meaningful conclusions cannot be drawn. The fourth and the latest trial has
220 patients, all adenocarcinoma restricted to the distal oesophagus or cardio-esophageal
junction. There was no difference in the median overall survival; however, there was a trend
towards a survival benefit at five years with the trans thoracic approach (Level Ib). The
published meta analysis of over 60 trials (both prospective and retrospective) comparing
transhiatal to transthoracic esophagectomy did not find any difference in the overall survival
(Level IIc). Till results of large randomized trials are available the preferred surgical approach will
continue to be biased by surgeons’ choice.
Extent of lymphadenectomy
Lymph node metastasis is one of the most important prognostic factors for carcinoma of the
oesophagus. Since the oesophagus has extensive lymphatic network and most patients present
with advanced disease, the majority of patients undergoing surgery have lymph node
metastases. Three field lymph node dissection (lower cervical, mediastinal and abdominal) is
reported to improve survival without increased procedure related morbidity and mortality
(Level IIa). However, most reported studies are small or have compared results with historical
controls. The only one randomized trial of over 60 patients has reported higher, though not
statistically significant, survival in patients undergoing three field lymph node dissections (Level
Ib). Extensive lymph node dissection provides ‘accurate nodal staging’ resulting in stage
migration and apparent ‘improvement in survival’. In absence of conclusive Level I evidence, the
advantage of three field lymph node dissection over the conventional limited lymph node
dissection remains speculative. In fact, an adequately powered randomized trial could answer
the question regarding the importance of lymph node dissection in management of carcinoma
oesophagus and indirectly address the issue of transhiatal versus transthoracic approach.
Definitive radiation and chemo-radiation therapy
Two published (RTOG and ECOG) randomized trials have reported better overall survival with
concomitant chemo-radiation than radiation therapy alone. However, increasing the dose of
radiation therapy (50.4 versus 64.8) in concomitant setting did not result in increased survival
(Inter Group trial). Meta analysis of 13 trials combining radiation with chemotherapy published
in the Cochrane library has reported an absolute reduction in the mortality and local recurrence
rate of 7% and 12% respectively in favour of combination therapy. The combination treatment
is associated with increased life threatening toxicities (Level Ia). There are no trials comparing
concomitant chemo-radiation with surgery alone. However two trials comparing surgery to
radiation alone have reported better survival with surgery (Level Ib). Hence based on the
available evidence, if a patient is to be treated with definitive radiation, it should be combined
with chemotherapy, provided performance status is optimal.
102

Surgery as adjuvant to radiation, chemotherapy or combination of both
Pre-operative radiotherapy
A meta analysis as well as the five published randomized trials comparing preoperative radiation
therapy to surgery alone have not shown benefit of pre operative radiation over surgery alone
(Level Ia).
Pre-operative concomitant chemo-radiation
There are eleven major trials and three meta analysis comparing preoperative concomitant
chemoradiation to surgery alone. Meta analysis of pre operative chemoradiation and surgery to
surgery alone has reported improved survival and reduced loco-regional recurrence (Level Ia).
However, combination treatment is associated with trend towards increased treatment related
morbidity and mortality. In the absence of results from a large trial and increased treatment
related morbidity, neo adjuvant chemo-radiation should be considered as one of the options of
treating localized disease.
Pre-operative chemotherapy
There are nine major published trials of pre-operative chemotherapy in the management of
carcinoma of the oesophagus. The two large trials have reported results which are divergent.
The Intergroup trial of 440 patients reported by Kelsen et al observed no improvement in
survival with pre operative combination of cisplatin and fluorouracil among patients with
adenocarcinoma or epidermoid carcinoma of the oesophagus. The MRC trial of 802 patients
reported improved survival with two cycles of cisplatin and fluorouracil without additional
serious events. The meta analysis of all trials put together concludes that preoperative
chemotherapy plus surgery appears to offer a survival advantage at 3, 4, and 5 years, which
reached significance only at 5 years compared to surgery alone for resectable thoracic
esophageal cancer of any histologic type. The number needed to treat for one extra survivor at
five years is eleven patients. (Level Ia).
Post-operative radiotherapy
Three trials have compared surgery and post operative radiation to surgery alone. The Chinese
trial of 495 patients observed improved 5-year survival in patients with positive lymph nodes
and stage III disease receiving post operative radiation. However, the difference in the overall
survival between the two groups was statistically not different. The meta analysis of all three
trials also does not show benefit of post operative radiotherapy. Therefore, in the absence of
Level I evidence post operative radiotherapy is indicated only for patients with positive margin
and residual disease.
Post operative chemotherapy
Phase III trials of surgery and post operative chemotherapy have not reported survival benefit
over surgery alone. A Phase III study by Japanese Clinical Oncology Group (JCOG) reported
better disease free survival at 5-year with post operative chemotherapy; however there was no
difference in the overall survival (Level Ia).In adenocarcinoma of the cardio oesophageal
103

junction (and stomach) two trials – the MAGIC trial evaluating perioperative chemotherapy with
three cycles of ECF given pre as well as 3 cycles given postoperatively, and the MacDonald post
operative chemo-radiotherapy trial – both showed improved overall survival (Level Ib). Thus in
patients with adenocarcinoma of the cardia having good performance status, perioperative
chemotherapy (3 preoperative cycles of ECF and 3 postoperative cycles of ECF) or post operative
chemo-radiation should be the standard of care.
Principles of Radiation therapy
Radical radiotherapy
The inclusion criteria are :
- All lesions (except stenotic) in upper / mid / lower esophagus
- Lesion £ than 5 cm on barium swallow and esophagoscopy
- Histologically proven esophageal carcinoma
- Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) of > 60%
- Age £ 60 years.
- Metastatic work - up negative (No palpable S/C nodes, Bronchoscopy & USG abdomen
normal).
·

External beam radiotherapy (EBRT) alone

Dose : 60 - 64.8Gy / 33 - 36 fractions, with reducing fields
Portal design :
Extended field: esophageal lesion including the lymph drainage areas, with 5 cm margin on
either side upto 39.6Gy / 22 fractions/ 4.5 weeks
Reduced fields/ boost: Lesion with 2 - 3 cm. margins, with oblique portals, upto 60 - 64.8Gy / 33
- 36 fractions
·

External beam radiotherapy and brachytherapy

When feasible, external Radiotherapy can be combined with Intraluminal radiotherapy (ILRT) as
a boost.
Dose of EBRT : 50.4Gy / 28 fractions with reducing fields.
ILRT Boost : 5 - 8Gy / 2-3 fractions high dose rate (HDR), one week apart or single fraction 20Gy
low dose rate (LDR).
Concomitant chemo-radiation regimen
·

50Gy in 25 fractions over 5 weeks, plus cisplatin intravenously on the first day of weeks
1, 5, 8, and 11, and fluorouracil, 1g/m2 per day by continuous infusion on the first 4 days
of weeks 1, 5, 8, and 11. (RTOG regimen)
104

·

60Gy in 6 to 61/2 weeks. Chemotherapy to be initiated within 24 hours after the
commencement of radiation therapy. 5-FU to be delivered by continuous infusion for 96
hours starting on day 2 at the rate of 1000 mg per m2 over 24 hours. This regimen of 5FU to be repeated once again beginning on day 28. Bolus injection of mitomycin C (10
mg per m2) to be administered on day 2 and not to be repeated. The dose of mitomycin
C not to exceed 18 mg and the dose of 5-FU not to exceed 1800 mg over a 24-hour
period. (ECOG regimen).

Principles of Chemotherapy
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy protocols
·
·

Two 4-day cycles, 3 weeks apart, of cisplatin 80 mg/m(2) by infusion over 4 h plus
fluorouracil 1000 mg/m(2) daily by continuous infusion for 4 days. (MRC protocol)
Cisplatin, at a dose of 100 mg per square meter of body-surface area, given as a rapid
intravenous infusion after prehydration on day 1. Immediately thereafter, fluorouracil
administered at a dose of 1000 mg per square meter as a continuous infusion from day 1
through day 5 (120 hours) of each cycle. The cycle to be repeated beginning on days 29
and 58. Surgery performed two to four weeks after chemotherapy (Intergroup protocol).

Palliative treatment
If the general condition is good,
1. Relief of dysphagia by placement of esophageal stent alone, preferably self expanding
metallic stent as these are easy to deploy.
2. Radiation therapy with intubation if associated with significant dysphagia
3. Intraluminal radiation therapy alone.
4. Endoscopic laser destruction of tumour or electrocoagulation.
Palliative radiotherapy
The intent of treatment is to achieve quick and good palliation in the form of relief of dysphagia
and pain.
The inclusion criteria are :
- Lesions in upper / mid / lower esophagus
- Lesion £ 10 cm long on barium swallow and esophagoscopy
- Histologically proven esophageal carcinoma
- Karnofsky performance status (KPS) of £ 50%
- Recurrent / metastatic disease.
Dose : 3000cGy /10 fractions /2 weeks
Portal : Esophageal lesion with 2-3 cm margin
Evaluation and response assessment is done after 4 - 6 weeks and further external Radiotherapy
or Brachytherapy boost may be delivered.
105

Reduced field / boost : 2000cGy/10# / 2 weeks, using oblique portals
Palliative radiation can also be delivered in the form of ILRT alone or in combination with EBRT.
The dose per fraction ranges from 5 - 8Gy, in 2- 3 fractions, one week apart. There is no
difference in local control or survival between high dose rate brachytherapy compared with
external beam radiation. (Level II)
Investigational Treatment
1. Palliative chemotherapy with intubation if associated with significant dysphagia. Response
rates ranging from 30% to 50% and one year survival ranging from 0% to 5% is reported with
platinum based combination chemotherapy.
If the general condition is poor with limited life expectancy
1. Nasogastric tube placement for feeding if possible.
2. Supportive care.
Treatment of esophageal fistula
1. Esophageal intubation with stent.
2. Oesophageal and tracheal/bronchial stent placement (double stenting) when possible if the
fistula is large or if the tracheal lumen is compromised.
Treatment of Recurrent disease
1. Salvage surgery for localised resectable failures.
2. Palliative treatment or supportive care alone as described before.
Management algorithm for esophageal cancer
Workup
1. Barium swallow (optional)
2. Upper GI scopy with biopsy / cytology
3. CT scan chest and upper abdomen
4. Fiber optic bronchoscopy – for upper and middle third growths
5. Routine hematology, biochemistry
6. Pulmonary function tests – if surgery contemplated
a. Assess stage of disease – (i) Localized (ii) Disseminated
b. Assess performance and nutritional status

106

Disseminated disease with good performance status
·
·

Stenting
Palliative chemotherapy

Poor performance status and / or nutritional status
·

Stenting

Recurrent disease

Best supportive care
·
·
·

Stenting – to relieve obstruction
Enteral feeding through nasogastric tube or gastrostomy
Pain relief

107

NAME OF CONDITION; Gall Bladder cancer

VIII. WHEN TO SUSPECT/ RECOGNIZE?
c) Introduction:
It is the most common biliary tract cancer and is the fifth leading gastrointestinal
malignancy in the United States. It produces symptoms late in the course of the
disease, disseminates rapidly from the primary site, and responds infrequently to
nonsurgical therapy. The overall median survival for all patients is less than 6
months. The disease is up to five times more common in females. It is usually
associated with gallstones, although few patients with gallstones actually develop
gallbladder cancer

Case definition:
For both situations of care (mentioned below*)

IX.

INCIDENCE OF THE CONDITION IN OUR COUNTRY
The reported crude rate for gallbladder cancer in India is 1/100,000. The comparison
of different population based cancer registries indicates that GB cancer varies in
different regions. The reported incidence ranged from 10/1, 00, 000 in Delhi to 23/1, 00, 0 00 in South India.

X.

DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS
Xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis is a relatively rare inflammatory condition of the
gallbladder, requires to be differentiated from GB cancer. Characteristic findings on
the CT scan are intramural hypodense nodules. CA 19-9 levels may be normal, and
FDG-PET scan may be negative.
Mid bile duct cholangiocarcinoma may simulate a GB cancer and can be
differentiated by optimal cholangiography as can Mirizzi syndrome.

XI.

PREVENTION AND COUNSELING
There is no way to prevent gallbladder cancer, however its risk may be decreased by
maintaining healthy weight, avoiding tobacco and having surgery for high risk
conditions such as patients with large stones, porcelain gallbladder, polyps,
anomalous pancreatobiliary ductal union, and those belonging to certain races such
as Pima Indians.

XII.

OPTIMAL DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA, INVESTIGATIONS,
TREATMENT & REFERRAL CRITERIA
108

Patients with gallbladder cancer are often initially asymptomatic. Nonspecific
symptoms of abdominal pain and weight loss may mimic the symptoms of benign
gallbladder disease. Jaundice is an ominous sign in patients with gallbladder cancer
and usually indicates advanced disease. A palpable gallbladder may be found on
examination.
Ultrasonography is usually the first investigation in suspected gallbladder disease.
Findings suggestive of cancer include asymmetric wall thickening, discontinuous
mucosa, echogenic mucosa, submucosal echolucency, or mass lesion. Doppler
examination may help to assess the blood flow through areas of mucosal
abnormalities and also the patency of the regional vasculature (hepatic artery and
portal vein
CT scan is currently the gold standard in imaging of a suspected GB cancer and can
show the mass lesion, extension, vascular involvement, nodal disease and
metastasis.
Magnetic resonance imaging has the advantage of no radiation plus the opportunity
to have a all information in one single investigation that provides cross-sectional
images of the tumour, extension, nodal disease , cholangiography and angiography.
Laparoscopic evaluation should be considered before proceeding to open resection
as up to 55% may have peritoneal secondaries.
Biopsy is not essential for tumours deemed resectable by imaging, however for
unresectable disease planned for nonsurgical therapy histologic confirmation is
mandatory.
Treatment:
Radical re-resection (after a complete staging including laparoscopy demonstrating
resectability) is recommended for patients with incidental gallbladder carcinoma
stage T1b (tumour invades muscle layer) or greater. Patients with T1a tumours
(tumour invades lamina propria) do not further beneﬁt from re-resection if the
gallbladder were removed intact and should be observed only.
Incidentally detected tumours at surgery should be confirmed by frozen section
biopsy and full evaluation should be performed using intraoperative ultrasound.
Surgery is converted to open resection with en-bloc hepatic resection and
lymphadenectomy with or without bile duct resection.
Surgical resection is the only potentially curative treatment for preoperatively
diagnosed resectable cancer. Resection is an extended cholecystectomy which
includes cholecystectomy, en=bloc hepatic resection and lymphadenectomy (porta
hepatis, gastrohepatic ligament, retroduodenal) with or without bile duct excision.
Involvement of the interaortocaval node is considered as synonymous of
disseminated disease, and if this lymph node is positive at frozen section, curative
resection must be abandoned. Bile duct resection is considered for cystic duct
lesions or invasion of the bile duct or for clearance of bulky nodes. It may also be
indicated when the bile duct is itself involved by tumour. Surgery may also involve
109

removal of adjacent organs such as the duodenum, colon, stomach, and pancreas to
achieve RO resection, as negative margins is the most important determinant of
survival.
Resectable advanced disease diagnosed at surgery may be considered for operative
treatment. Biliary enteric bypass, however if diagnosed prior to surgery should be
considered for endoscopic or percutaneous biliary drainage.
Adjuvant and palliative chemotherapy has limited role and Gemcitabine based
chemotherapy and 5FU based chemo radiation can be considered in patients with
god performance status.

*Situation 1: At Secondary Hospital/ Non-Metro situation: Optimal Standards of
Treatment in Situations where technology and resources are limited
IX. Clinical Diagnosis:
Any elderly patient with right upper abdominal pain and weight loss should be evaluated
for gallbladder cancer and the diagnosis confirmed by imaging.
When a patient reports with gall stones (symptomatic or asymptomatic), care should be
taken in reviewing the clinical history and also the ultrasound examination. If there is
asymmetric gall bladder wall thickening, or mass lesion, or jaundice, then the patient
needs more extensive evaluation in a tertiary care center. Since the best opportunity for
long term cure of patients is in R0 resection (complete resection with negative margins),
preoperative definition of tumour extent is critical, and patients must be managed in a
tertiary care center.

X. Investigations:
USG, CT,MRI

XI. Treatment: Cholecystectomy
for early lesions.
Chemoradiotherapy

XII.

Referral criteria:

All patients for extended cholecystectomy should be referred to specialist centre.

*Situation 2: At Super Specialty Facility in Metro location where higher-end
technology is available
110

d) Clinical Diagnosis:
Any elderly patient with right upper abdominal pain and weight loss should be evaluated
for gallbladder cancer and the diagnosis confirmed by imaging.

e) Investigations:
USG,CT MRI, IOUS,

f) Treatment:
Extended cholecystectomy
Chemoradiotherapy.
Standard Operating procedure

a. In Patient
b. Out Patient
c. Day Care

XIII. WHO DOES WHAT? and TIMELINES
a. Doctor
b. Nurse
c. Technician
XIV. FURTHER READING / REFERENCES
1.

Lundberg O, Kristoffersson A. Open versus laparoscopic cholecystectomy for gallbladder carcinoma. J
Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg 2001;8:525–9.Goetze TO, Paolucci V. Beneﬁts of reoperation of T2 and more
advanced incidental gallbladder carcinoma: analysis of the German registry. Ann Surg 2008; 247: 104–108.

2.

Goetze TO, Paolucci V. Immediate re-resection of T1 incidental gallbladder carcinomas: a survival analysis
of the German Registry. Surg Endosc 2008; 22: 2462–2465.

3.

Eckel F, Schmid RM. Chemotherapy in advanced biliary tract carcinoma: a pooled analysis of clinical trials.
Br J Cancer 2007; 96: 896–902. Shimada H, Endo I, Togo S, Nakano A, Izumi T, Nakagawara G. The role of
lymph node dissection in the treatment of gallbladder carcinoma. Cancer 1997;79:892–9.

4.

Chijiiwa K, Kai M, Nagano M, Hiyoshi M, Ohuchida J, Kondo K. Outcome of radical surgery for stage IV
gallbladder carcinoma. J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg 2007;14:345–50.

111

5.

Agarwal AK, Mandal S, Singh S, Bhojwani R, Sakhuja P, Uppal R. Biliary obstruction in gall bladder cancer is
not sine qua non of inoperability. Annals of Surgical Oncology 2007, 14(10):2831-7.

6.

Sikora SS, Singh RK. Surgical strategies in patients with gallbladder cancer: nihilism to optimism.
Journal [2006, 93(8):670-81]

7.

Nishio H, Nagino M, Ebata T, Yokoyama Y, Igami T, Nimura Y. Aggressive surgery for stage IV gallbladder
carcinoma; what are the contraindications? J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg 2007; 14:351–7. akai T, Shirai Y,
Yokoyama N, Nagakura S, Watanabe H, Hatakeyama K. Early gallbladder carcinoma does not warrant
radical resection. Br J Surg 2001;88:675–8.

8.

Ouchi K, Mikuni J, Kakugawa Y; Organizing Committee, The 30th Annual Congress of the Japanese Society
of Biliary Surgery. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy for gallbladder carcinoma: results of a Japanese survey of
498 patients. J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg 2002;9:256–60

9.

Kokudo N, Makuuchi M, Natori T, Sakamoto Y, Yamamoto J, Seki M, et al. Strategies for surgical treatment
of gallbladder carcinoma based on information available before resection. Arch Surg 2003;138:741–50.

10. Suzuki S, Yokoi Y, Kurachi K, Inaba K, Ota S, Azuma M, et al. Appraisal of surgical treatment for pT2
gallbladder carcinomas. World J Surg 2004;28:160–5.
11. Shimizu Y, Ohtsuka M, Ito H, Kimura F, Shimizu H, Togawa A, et al. Should the extrahepatic bile duct be
resected for locally advanced gallbladder cancer? Surgery 2004;136:1012–7.
12. Kondo S, Nimura Y, Hayakawa N, Kamiya J, Nagino M, Uesaka K. Extensive surgery for carcinoma of the
gallbladder. Br J Surg 2002;89:179–84.
13. Takada T, Amano H, Yasuda H et al. Is postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy useful for gallbladder
carcinoma? A phase III multicenter prospective randomized controlled trial in patients with resected
pancreaticobiliary carcinoma. Cancer 2002; 95: 1685–1695.
14. Glimelius B, Hoffman K, Sjoden PO et al. Chemotherapy improves survival and quality of life in advanced
pancreatic and biliary cancer. Ann Oncol 1996; 7: 593–600.

RESOURCES REQUIRED FOR ONE PATIENT / PROCEDURE (PATIENT WEIGHT 60
KGS)
(Units to be specified for human resources, investigations, drugs and
consumables and equipment. Quantity to also be specified)
Situation HUMAN

INVESTIGATIONS DRUGS &

EQUIPMENT
112

RESOURCES

CONSUMABLES

1
2

113

Lung cancer
Introduction
Lung cancer is a major problem in both developed and developing countries in the world. It is
the leading type of cancer (more than a million new cases; 12.8% of all cancers) and the leading
cause of cancer mortality (921,000 deaths; 17.8% of all cancer deaths) worldwide. It is expected
that lung cancer will remain a major health problem at least for the next 30-40 years, even if
there is a reduction in incidence as a result of smoking cessation interventions. In India,
Untreated, it has a high mortality with 95% patients dying within one year.
Lung cancer is broadly divided into two types – small cell and non-small cell. This general
histologic classification reflects the clinical and biological behavior of these distinct tumor types.
Small cell lung cancers (SCLC) grow rapidly, metastasize widely and are treated primarily with
chemotherapy. Eighty percent of SCLC are metastatic on presentation. Non-small cell lung
cancers (NSCLC) are divided into squamous cell cancers, adenocarcinomas and large cell
carcinomas. Nearly half of all NSCLC in developed countries (and one fourth of cases in India)
are diagnosed in localized or locally advanced stage when they are treated by resection or
combined
modality
treatment
with
or
without
surgery.
Smoking is the single most important risk factor for all types of lung cancers. Attempts to reduce
lung cancer mortality should therefore primarily be focused on smoking cessation, which has
the potential to be the single most important public health intervention to reduce cancer
deaths.

Management of NSCLC

I. Patients with localized NSCLC (T1-3, N0-1)

These include patients upto T3N1 NSCLC, i.e., all stage I, II and T3N1 stage IIIA.
Workup
includes
1.
Chest
X-ray
2.
CT
scan
chest
and
upper
abdomen
3.
Fiber
optic
bronchoscopy
4. Cyto/histological diagnosis if possible – sputum cytology, bronchoalveolar lavage/brushings
cytology, post bronchoscopy sputum cytology, CT guided biopsy
5.
Arterial
blood
gas
analysis
6. Pulmonary function test and diffusion coefficient of carbon monoxide (DLCO)
114

7. Ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) scan – if pulmonary function tests reveal borderline pulmonary
reserve
8. Mediastinoscopy is indicated in patients with T3 and/or N1 tumors
9. Metastatic workup – PET-CT scan, MRI scan brain– indicated in patients with T3 and/or N1
tumors
Note : A cyto/histological diagnosis is preferable but not mandatory prior to surgery.
A
complete
metastatic
workup
is
indicated
in
a)
Patients
with
T3
and/or
N1
tumors
b) Borderline operative patients (increased risk because of borderline PFT or intercurrent
cardiac
or
other
medical
illnesses)
with
early
stage
disease
c)
Patients
with
symptoms
or
signs
of
distant
metastases.
Patients with T1-2, N0 NSCLC with no symptoms of metastatic disease do not require a routine
metastatic workup.
Surgery is the treatment of choice in patients with localized disease with no involvement of
mediastinal lymph nodes.
(Level III, Grade B)
Preoperative Management
1. Smoking cessation
2. Bronchodilators
3. Intermittent Positive Pressure Breathing (IPPB)
4. Chest physiotherapy
5. Antibiotics – only if infection present
Surgical resection – general principles
·

·

·

Lobectomy or pneumonectomy should be done depending on the extent of disease
(provided the patient has adequate pulmonary reserve). One randomized trial (LCSG)
and eight non-randomized trials have shown lower survivals with sublobar resections
compared to lobectomy. (Level Ib, Grade A)
Limited resection (segmentectomy, wedge resection) may be done only if pulmonary
reserve is inadequate for lobectomy, provided otherwise medically fit for surgery.
Reduced survival compared to lobectomy, but better results than radical radiotherapy
alone. (Level III, Grade B)
N1 and N2 lymph nodal resection and mapping (sampling or systematic lymph node
dissection) should be done. There is universal consensus that SMLND is a better staging
and prognosticator than mediastinal lymph nodal sampling. There is no consensus that
SMLND improves survival in patients with NSCLC. Two randomized trials found no
difference in survival between mediastinal lymph node sampling and systematic
mediastinal lymph node dissection, whereas one randomized and one large
115

·
·

nonrandomized trial found superior survival with systematic mediastinal lymph node
dissection. (Level Ib, Grade A)
Curative (radical) radiotherapy should be given if the patient is medically unfit for
surgery. (Level III, Grade B)
Parenchyma preserving lung resection (sleeve resection, bronchoplasty) is preferred
over pneumonectomy if anatomically appropriate and negative margins can be
obtained. (Level III, Grade B)

VATS lung resections
Preliminary data from VATS lung resections suggest similar 2-3 year survival outcomes to open
surgery but long term outcomes are not yet available. However, most studies of VATS lung
resections have had strict selection criteria whereas comparative open surgeries have been an
unselected group. There is also no objective evidence regarding the advantages of VATS lung
resections over open surgery.
Postoperative care
1. Perioperative antibiotics
2. Optimal pain control
3. Early mobilization
4. Chest physiotherapy
5. Incentive spirometry
6. IPPB
Adjuvant therapy
·

·

·

There is definite benefit with cisplatin-based adjuvant chemotherapy in completely
resected NSCLC. Several recent large multicenter randomized controlled trials and a
meta analysis showed a significant survival advantage with cisplatin-based postoperative
chemotherapy in completely resected NSCLC. (Level Ia, Grade A)
There is no role of adjuvant radiotherapy in completely resected early stage NSCLC. The
PORT meta analysis showed higher mortality in patients treated with post operative
radiotherapy compared to patients treated with surgery alone (Level Ia, Grade A)
Adjuvant radiotherapy may be considered in patients with residual disease after lung
resection or positive margins. (Level III, Grade B)

II. Patients with positive mediastinal lymph nodes (T1-3, N2)
Workup includes
1. Chest X-ray
2. CT scan chest and upper abdomen
3. Fiber optic bronchoscopy
4. Cyto/histological diagnosis – sputum cytology, bronchoalveolar lavage/brushings cytology,
post bronchoscopy sputum cytology, CT guided FNAC
5. Mediastinoscopy and biopsy
6. Metastatic workup – MRI scan brain, PET-CT scan.
116

A. Preoperatively diagnosed N2 disease
·

·
·

·
·

·

Patients with clinico radiological N2 disease should undergo mediastinoscopy for
histological evidence of N2 disease.
(Level Ib, Grade A)
Patients should undergo multimodality treatment protocols.
Patients are primarily treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by surgery. Four
randomized trials have shown significantly improved survival with neoadjuvant
chemotherapy compared to patients treated with surgery alone. (Level Ib, Grade A)
Patients progressing on neoadjuvant chemotherapy should be treated with definitive
chemoradiotherapy. (Level III, Grade B)
Patients who do not progress on NACT and who have resectable disease should be
treated with surgery provided they have adequate pulmonary reserve. (Level III, Grade
B)
Patients with inadequate pulmonary reserve to tolerate lung resection should be treated
with definitive chemoradiotherapy. (Level III, Grade B)

B. Surgically discovered N2 disease
·
·
·

Patients with N2 disease detected on thoracotomy should undergo lung resection
provided the tumor can be completely resected. (Level III, Grade B)
Systematic lymph node dissection should be done. (Level III, Grade B)
Adjuvant therapy should be considered. (Level III, Grade B)

Adjuvant therapy
·
·

The role of adjuvant radiotherapy in completely resected N2 NSCLC is unclear. Subset
analysis in the PORT meta analysis showed no difference in survival
Adjuvant radiotherapy may be indicated in patients with residual disease after surgery or
positive margins. (Level III, Grade B)

III. Patients with locoregionally advanced disease (T4 and N3)
·
·

·
·

Treatment of patients with T4 and N3 NSCLC is predominantly non surgical. (Level III,
Grade B)
Patients with good performance status should be treated with combination chemo
radiotherapy. Evidence from a meta analysis and 12 randomized controlled trials show a
survival benefit with cisplatin-based chemotherapy and radical radiotherapy compared
to radiotherapy alone. (Level Ia, Grade A)
Concurrent chemo radiotherapy is preferable to sequential chemo radiotherapy. (Level
III, Grade B)
There is no difference between daily and weekly chemoradiotherapy regimens. (Level Ia,
Grade A)

117

·
·
·

·

Cisplatin based chemotherapy regimens are better than non-cisplatin based
chemotherapy. (Level Ia, Grade A)
Patients who may not tolerate combination chemo radiotherapy should be treated with
radiotherapy alone. (Level III, Grade B)
Patients with malignant pleural effusion should be treated with pleurodesis. Palliative
chemotherapy should be given in patients with good performance status. (Level III,
Grade B)
Highly selected patients with stage III B disease may benefit from surgery as part of
multimodality treatment protocols.
(Level IV, Grade C)

IV. Patients with metastatic disease
·
·
·
·

·

·
·

·
·

·

·

The aim of treatment is palliation and prolongation of survival.(Level Ia, Grade A))
Patients with good performance score (ECOG 0, 1) should be treated with platinumbased combination chemotherapy.(Level Ia, Grade A)
Combination chemotherapy regimens are better than single agent chemotherapy (Level
Ia, Grade A)
Cisplatin-combinations have a higher response rate and may improve overall survival
when combined with a third-generation agent, but have higher toxicities. The second
agent should be a third generation chemotherapy agent like docetaxel, paclitaxel,
gemcitabine, pemtrexed, vinorelbine and irinotecan. (Level Ia, Grade A))
Patients with tumours that have EGFR-activating mutations should be treated with an
oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor. If EGFR mutation status is negative or unknown, then
cytotoxic chemotherapy should be used. (Level I, Grade A))
In patients with non-squamous histology, Pemetrexed based combination chemotherapy
can be considered (Level Ib, Grade A)I).
Bevacizumab can be added to carboplatin-paclitaxel chemotherapy in the first-line
setting, except in patients with squamous histology, brain metastases, clinically
significant hemoptysis, inadequate organ function, PS > 1, therapeutic anticoagulation,
uncontrolled hypertension or clinically significant cardiovascular disease. Bevacizumab
can be continued until progression of disease. (Level Ib, Grade A))
Bevacizumab can be dosed at 7.5 mg/kg or 15 mg/kg IV every 3 weeks.(Level Ib, Grade
A))
Cetuximab can be added to cisplatin-vinorelbine chemotherapy in the first-line setting,
in patients with EGFR-positive tumour as measured by IHC. Cetuximab can be continued
until progression of disease. (Level I, Grade A))
Elderly patients (> 70 years) or patients with ECOG performance status 2 can be
considered for chemotherapy, either single agent or in selected patients, combination
chemotherapy. These patients benefit from chemotherapy, although the degree of
benefit is less than for PS 0 and 1 patients and toxic effects of chemotherapy are more.
Patients with poor performance score (ECOG 3 and 4) should be treated with best
supportive care (BSC). (Level Ia, Grade A)

118

·
·

·
·
·
·

·
·

In patients receiving first-line chemotherapy, 4 to 6 cycles of chemotherapy should be
administered.(Level I, Grade A))
Maintenance chemotherapy with either docetaxel, pemetrexed or oral tyrosine kinase
inhibitor may prolong progression-free survival and can be considered after completing
first-line chemotherapy.(Level I, Grade A))
Painful bone metastases and metastases in weight-bearing bones should be treated with
palliative radiotherapy.(Level Ia, Grade A)
Bisphosphonates may reduce adverse bone events in patients with bone metastases.
(Level Ia, Grade A)
Highly selected patients with solitary brain, adrenal and lung metastasis may benefit
from resection of the metastasis along with lung resection. (Level IV, Grade C)
In patients who have progressed after first-line therapy, and who have adequate
performance status, second line therapy may be considered including pemetrexed,
docetaxel, erlotinib or gefitinib.(Level I, Grade A))
Second-line therapy can be continued as tolerated until disease progression.
Patients who have progressed on second-line therapy may be considered for erlotinib
therapy, if they have not received a prior oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor.(Level I, Grade A))

Management of malignant pleural effusion (unknown primary)
Workup includes
1. Clinical examination – look for primary in breast, lungs, abdomen, pelvis; lymph node biopsy if
enlarged (lymphoma)
2. Chest X-ray
3. Pleural fluid cytology
4. Tumor markers – CEA, CA-125 (females) and CEA, PSA (males)
5. Fiber optic bronchoscopy
6. Thoracoscopy – if pleural fluid cytology is negative





The best palliation for patients with malignant pleural effusion with complete lung
expansion after chest tube drainage is pleurodesis.
Talc has better results in pleurodesis than bleomycin and tetracycline.
Patients with incomplete lung expansion after chest tube drainage may be treated with a
pleuro peritoneal shunt or an indwelling pigtail catheter.
Palliative chemotherapy may be offered to patients with good performance status

Radiotherapy Protocols
Radical Radiotherapy
Indications – in early NSCLC – medically unfit for surgery or patient refusing surgery.
60-65 Gy / 33-36 fr / 6-7 weeks
Phase I : 40 Gy / 20 fr across the mediastinum
Phase II : 10 Gy / 6 fr / 2 cm margin (spinal cord shielding)
Phase III : 10-15 Gy / 1 cm margin
119

Supraclavicular fossa is included as primary coverage in upper lobe tumors.
Palliative Radiotherapy
Indications – unresectable disease
KPS > 60%
39Gy / 13 fr / 2.5 weeks
Phase I : 30Gy / 10 fr / 2 weeks / maximum margin 2 cm
Phase II : 9Gy / 3 fr / 3 days / spinal cord shielding
KPS = 60%
10Gy / 1 fr / 1 day (or) 17Gy / 2 fr / 1 week (or) 20Gy / 5 fr / 1 week
(No difference in IAEA pilot study)
Supra clavicular fossa is not included in the field.
Postoperative Radiotherapy
Indications – Positive margins and residual disease
50-54Gy / 25-27 fr / 5-6 weeks
Phase I : 40Gy / 20 fr across the mediastinum
Phase II : 10-14Gy / 5-7 fr / 2 cm margin (spinal cord shielding)
Metastatic Disease
Parenchymal Brain Metastases
30Gy / 10 fr / 2 weeks
Low performance score – 20Gy / 5 fr / 1 week
Spinal Cord Compression
30Gy / 10 fr / 2 weeks (or) 20Gy / 5 fr / 1 week
(along with steroids and supportive care)
Painful bone metastases
Single fr : 6-8Gy / 1 fr
Multiple fr : 30Gy / 10 fr / 2 weeks (or) 20Gy / 5 fr / 1 week
Rarely, hemibody irradiation may be used for multiple bone metastases
Endobronchial Radiotherapy
Indications – salvage treatment for recurrent / residual endobronchial lesion.
7.5Gy / fr X 2 fr 1.2 weeks apart 1 cm off axis.
Superior Vena Cava Syndrome
20Gy / 5 fr / 1 week – assess the response
20Gy / 10 fr / 2 weeks with reduced fields
(along with steroids and supportive care)

120

Small Cell Lung Cancer
Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) represents a distinct entity that is biologically and clinically
different from Non Small cell Lung cancer. It is an aggressive cancer with a rapid proliferation
index thereby making it very chemosensitive.
SCLC is staged according to the International Association for Study of Lung Cancer, into Limited
stage disease (LD) and Extensive stage disease (ED).
Limited stage disease (LD) is defined as disease restricted to one hemithorax, with or without
involvement of ipsilateral regional nodes including hilar, mediastinal and supraclavicular. It also
includes involvement of contralateral mediastinal and supraclavicular nodes and an ipsilateral
pleural effusion.
Disease more extensive than described above is considered Extensive stage disease (ED).
Management of LD SCLC
Patients with LD SCLC are treated for potential cure with chemoradiotherapy. The standard
treatment of LD SCLC is concurrent radiation therapy with cisplatin based chemotherapy. (Level
IIa, Grade B)
Role of chemotherapy
SCLC are known to be chemosensitive tumours and have shown good response rates with
cisplatin based chemotherapy. Current standard chemotherapeutic protocol is to give 4-6 cycles
of cisplatinum and etoposide based regimen. (Level IIa)
However, even with this protocol- though response rates were as high as 70-80% (including 50%
complete responses), most patients still die of tumour progression/recurrence.
Therefore, newer chemotherapeutic regimens with dose intensification were attempted. These
showed very high toxicities with no documented significant increase in survival in all phase II-III
studies. (Level Ib, Grade A)
Role of Radiation therapy (RT) in LD SCLC
In patients treated with chemotherapy alone, locoregional failure in the thorax occurs in upto
80% of patients with SCLC.
RT was accepted as a part of combined modality approach as a result of 2 meta-analyses which
clearly showed an improvement in local control with subsequent improvement in overall
survival (Level Ia, Grade A). Thoracic RT should be administered early, i.e during the 1st or 2nd
cycle of chemotherapy at curative doses to achieve increase in the overall survival. (Level Ib,
Grade A)

121

Role of Surgery
Surgery plays a much less definitive role in SCLC as compared to NSCLC.
The available data indicate that surgery can be useful in T1, T2 tumours without nodal
involvement. For small lesions, surgery can also be considered as first line treatment followed
by chemotherapy.
(Level IV, Grade C)
Role of Prophylactic Cranial Irradiation (PCI)
The central nervous system is a frequent site for metastases in SCLC (about 50% of isolated
metastases) which results in significant morbidity.
In a meta-analyses performed by the Collaborative Group, PCI showed an absolute increase of
5.4% in 3 year survivals with an increase of 8.8% in the disease free survival. (Level Ia, Grade A)
However the role of PCI, regarding the timing, dose and fractionation, eligibility of patients and
neurological toxicity remains unclear.
In conclusion, the standard accepted treatment for LD SCLC of the lung is concurrent
chemoradiation (platinum based) with emphasis on an early start of thoracic radiation. Surgery
has a small role to play in small peripherally located tumours.
Management of Extensive stage SCLC
Platinum based chemotherapy remains the mainstay of management of ED SCLC.
Two meta-analyses have clearly indicated the superior role of cisplatinum based chemotherapy
regimens as compared to other agents.
(Level Ia, Grade A)
Carboplatin can also be used as an alternative to cisplatin, with no difference in efficacy or
toxicity. The usual course of management is to give 4 cycles of cisplatin/carboplatin with
etoposide. There is no evidence for the use of maintenance therapy in ED SCLC outside of a trial
setting. (Level Ib, Grade A) Further, there is no evidence for the use of dose intensification or
change of chemotherapeutic agent. Trials have shown no increase in survivals with the above
measures.

Management of refractory/relapsed ED SCLC
Inspite of being very chemosensitive, the progression free survival in ED SCLC, after
chemotherapy, is only 4 months. Most patients will relapse and the prognosis of such patients is
very poor.
For patients relapsing after 3 months from completion of induction treatment the same
protocol as induction can be repeated. For patients who relapse within 3 months of induction,
or for refractory disease, 2nd line chemotherapy should be given. (Level IV, Grade C) Topotecan
used as a single agent is at present the best option available.
122

(Level Ib, Grade A)
Surgery plays no role in management of ED SCLC.
In all cases of ED SCLC supportive care should include, radiation therapy for bony metastases
and the management of paraneoplastic syndromes.
In conclusion, as ED SCLC is a disease with a poor prognosis to begin with and complete
treatment will increase survival only by 8-10 months, good patient selection is of utmost
importance. Age and performance status form important patient selection criteria. In fit
patients, chemotherapy is the standard of care.

123

PEDIATRIC SOLID TUMORS
XV.

WHEN TO SUSPECT/ RECOGNIZE?

d) Introduction:
Pediatric solid tumours are a very diverse group of diseases with differing biologies and
behaviours and a substantial proportion consists of characteristic entities that are rarely seen in
adults.

e) Case definition:
The International Classification of Childhood Cancer, Third Edition (ICCC-3) contains 12 main
diagnostic groups:
I.
Leukemias, myeloproliferative diseases, and myelodysplastic diseases
II.
Lymphomas and reticuloendothelial neoplasms
III.
CNS and miscellaneous intracranial and intraspinal neoplasms
IV.
Neuroblastoma and other peripheral nervous cell tumors
V.
Retinoblastoma
VI.
Renal tumors
VII.
Hepatic tumors
VIII.
Malignant bone tumors
IX.
Soft tissue and other extraosseous sarcomas
X.
Germ cell tumors, trophoblastic tumors and neoplasms of gonads
XI.
Other malignant epithelial neoplasms and malignant melanomas
XII.
Other and unspecified malignant neoplasms
All of the groups except retinoblastoma are split into subgroups, and the most heterogeneous
subgroups are in turn split into divisions.
The pediatric solid tumors comprise of group III to XII. Group III and VIII requiring specialized
orthopedic and neuro-surgery and neuro-radiation expertise are considered separately.

XVI. INCIDENCE OF THE CONDITION IN OUR COUNTRY
The annual incidence of cancer in children under 15 years of age is between 38 and 124 per
million. There is no organized Paediatric solid tumours registry in India; hence, robust
epidemiologic data is not available for the country. All currently quoted data is based on
population-based cancer registries across India under the National Cancer Registry Program.

XVII. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS




Trauma
Infection
Benign tumor

124

XVIII. PREVENTION AND COUNSELING
The occurrence and progression of paediatric solid tumours like most other tumors is
influenced by a variety of genetic changes. The accumulation of changes varies between
tumor types and the exact pattern varies even for a particular tumor type. Genetic
counseling is the communication of information and advice about inherited conditions. A
standard medical history and examination is required for the affected person and in addition
the family pedigree needs to be constructed. For certain tumor syndromes it might also be
necessary to examine apparently normal parents and other relatives for minor features of
the condition. Alternatively, if a specific mutation is identified in the proband, genetic testing
for this mutation can subsequently be offered to the relatives where appropriate. Counseling
needs to include all aspects of the condition and the depth of explanation should be
matched to the educational background of the couple. Parents may feel responsible for the
condition of their child. These fears need to be aired and allayed. In inherited tumors and
syndromes there is an additional need to minimize feelings of guilt and stigmatization.

125

XIX. OPTIMAL DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA, INVESTIGATIONS,
TREATMENT & REFERRAL CRITERIA
*Situation 1: At Secondary Hospital/ Non-Metro situation: Optimal Standards of
Treatment in Situations where technology and resources are limited
g) Clinical Diagnosis:
History & Clinical Examination
Documentation of congenital anomalies, evident signs of clinical syndromes
Assessment of Performance Status and Nutrition

h) Investigations:
i. Baseline investigations
Complete Haemogram

Hemoglobin, RBC, WBC, Platelets, ESR, Coagulation Profile

Routine Biochemistry

FBS, RFT, LFT & LDH

Serology

HbsAg, HCV, HIV

ii. Histological Examination: (Immunohistochemistry)
Tissue diagnosis

FNAC, Biopsies, Cytology, bone marrow studies

iii. Diagnostic Imaging: Contemporary imaging modalities
Radiology

X-ray, USG, CT scan

126

i) Treatment:
Standard Operating procedure

b. In Patient
·

All sick pediatric solid tumor patients are admitted for supportive care and initiation of
treatment as required.

·

Patients planned for elective surgery are admitted a day prior to the surgery with complete
work-up and treatment plan.

·

Patients with fever are admitted for management of Febrile Neutropenia. Once their
condition is stable they are discharged and followed up in the OPD.

a. Out Patient



Patients undergo complete clinical evaluation and are recommended investigations to confirm
the diagnosis and complete staging.
Sick patients and those with Medical oncologic emergencies are admitted in the ward for
emergency management.



Stable patients are followed up in the OPD till the diagnosis and staging workup is complete.



Treatment decisions are taken in the Multidisciplinary Joint clinics at diagnosis, at the time of
local therapy planning, at time of completion of treatment and if required anytime in between.

b. Day Care
·

Treatment for all stable pediatric solid tumor patients is started in the OPD/Day care.
Admission is limited to patients with uncontrolled co-morbid conditions or complications of
the disease or treatment related complications. .

·

Patients with advanced/relapsed disease not amenable to treatment are considered for
palliative care and referred for the same.

j) Referral criteria:
·

Patients requiring additional investigations or expert opinion to be referred to institutions
with adequate infrastructure and expertise.

127

*Situation 2: At Super Specialty Facility in Metro location where higher-end
technology is available
k) Clinical Diagnosis:
History & Clinical Examination
Documentation of congenital anomalies, evident signs of clinical syndromes
Assessment of Performance Status and Nutrition

l) Investigations:
i. Baseline investigations
Complete Haemogram

Hemoglobin, RBC, WBC, Platelets, ESR, Coagulation Profile

Routine Biochemistry

FBS, RFT, LFT & LDH

Serology

HbsAg, HCV, HIV

ii. Histological Examination: (Immunohistochemistry)
Tissue diagnosis

FNAC, Biopsies, Cytology, bone marrow studies

Molecular pathology

EWS-FLI 1, EWS-WT1, SYT-SSX1, n-myc, PAX-3FKHR etc

Tumor Markers

AFP, BHCG, Urinary VMA, HVA

iii. Diagnostic Imaging: Contemporary imaging modalities
Radiology
Nuclear imaging

X-ray, USG, CT scan, MRI
PET scan, Bone scan, MIBG scan

128

m) Treatment:
Standard Operating procedure
·

c. In Patient
All sick pediatric solid tumor patients are admitted for supportive care and initiation of
treatment as required.

·

Patients planned for elective surgery are admitted a day prior to the surgery with complete
work-up and treatment plan.

·

Patients with fever are admitted for management of Febrile Neutropenia. Once their
condition is stable they are discharged and followed up in the OPD.

a. Out Patient



Patients undergo complete clinical evaluation and are recommended investigations to confirm
the diagnosis and complete staging.
Sick patients and those with Medical oncologic emergencies are admitted in the ward for
emergency management.



Stable patients are followed up in the OPD till the diagnosis and staging workup is complete.



Treatment decisions are taken in the Multidisciplinary Joint clinics at diagnosis, at the time of
local therapy planning, at time of completion of treatment and if required anytime in between.

b. Day Care
·

Treatment for all stable pediatric solid tumor patients is started in the OPD/Day care.
Admission is limited to patients with uncontrolled co-morbid conditions or complications of
the disease or treatment related complications. .

·

Patients with advanced/relapsed disease not amenable to treatment are considered for
palliative care and referred for the same.

n) Referral criteria:
·

Patients with logistic problems will receive referral letters for institutions with adequate
infrastructure and expertise including the necessary protocols.

·

Patients with advanced incurable disease will be triaged and will undergo counseling by the
DMG’s palliative care team. Appropriate instruction and arrangement will be provided for
referral of these patients for supportive care to institutions at convenient distance from their
hometowns.

129

XX.

WHO DOES WHAT? and TIMELINES
First visit- Assessment by clinician and prescription of related basic investigations
1 day

First Review - Assessment by senior clinicians of DMG (Additional investigations for diagnosis and staging
work up)
1 week
Second Review – Multi-disciplinary Joint Clinic presentation and flow chart of treatment plan as per
prevailing protocol based on risk stratification

Initiation and Monitoring of treatment

Third review: Post induction chemotherapy response evaluation at 8-9 weeks and implementation of
planned local therapy

Fourth Review – Post local therapy

Fifth Review- On completion of planned treatment

Follow up as per DMG policy for 2 years

Reevaluation and registration in the After Completion of Therapy (ACT) clinic if disease free

130

Follow up in ACT clinic annually to monitor growth and development, late effects and encourage
survivorship programme – “UGAM”

XXI. FURTHER READING / REFERENCES
· Steliarova-Foucher E, Stiller C, Lacour B, et al. International classification of childhood cancer,




third edition. Cancer 2005;103:1457–1467
Arora RS et al. Epidemiolgy of Childhood cancer in India. Indian J Cancer 2009;46:264-273
Hodgson SV, Maher ER, Eng C, Foulkes W. A practical guide to human cancer genetics.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge (2006).

RESOURCES REQUIRED FOR ONE PATIENT / PROCEDURE (PATIENT WEIGHT 60
KGS)
(Units to be specified for human resources, investigations, drugs and
consumables and equipment. Quantity to also be specified)
HUMAN RESOURCES
1. Qualified Surgeon
2. Qualified Radiation Oncologist
3. Qualified Pediatric Medical
Oncologist
4. Pathologist
5. Radiologist
6. Trained Nurses
7. General Physician
8. Palliative Care specialist
9. Anesthetist
10. Clinical Psychologist
11. Medical Social Worker

INVESTIGATIONS
Haematological,
Biopsy,
Histopathology, CT
Scan/MRI,
Molecular (IHC)
analysis.

DRUGS
NSAIDs, Opioids
Antacids,
Antiemetics,
Contrast medium
Chemotherapeutics
( Most commonly
used drugs)
Vincristine,
Ifosphamide,
Doxorubicin,
Cisplatin,
Carboplatin,
Etoposide,
Cyclophosphamide,
Actinomycin D,
Bleomycin,
Topotecan,
Methotrexate,
Temozolamide, 13
cis-Retinoic acid,
5FU,Vinblastine

EQUIPMENT
OT equipment,
Electrical
cautery,
Hormonic
scalpel,
Intaoperative Xray unit,
Anesthesia
trolley,
mechanical
ventilators,
Suction
apparatus,
nebulizers, Co60
unit, Linear
Accelerator,
2D/3D
Simulators,
Treatment
planning system,

131

Neuroblastoma
Neuroblastoma is the most common extra cranial solid tumor in children. It arises from neural
crest cells which differentiate in cells of the sympathetic ganglia and adrenal medulla.
It remains a complex medical challenge with spontaneous regression at one end to an
unpredictable clinical course and dismal outcome at the other end of spectrum.
Image defined risk factors (IDRF) for Neuroblastoma

Site of primary tumor: Cervical, cervico-thoracic, thoracic, thoraco-abdominal, abdominal, and
pelvic.
Local extent:
 Crossing midline
 Encasement of any major vessel at that site like carotid, vertebral, IJV, subclavian,
mediastinal great vessels, abdominal aorta and its branches, IVC, iliacs.
 Infiltration of adjacent critical areas like skull base, trachea, main bronchi, brachial
plexus, pericardium, , costo-vertebral junction (especially between D9-D12), portahepatis, hepato-duodenal ligament, mesenteric root, sciatic notch, intra-spinal extension
(more than 1/3rd diameter of spinal canal involved on axial image or loss of
perimedullary space or abnormal cord)
 Infiltration of adjacent organs like heart, diaphragm, liver, kidney, spleen, pancreas, etc
Presence of multifocal primary
Collections in cavities like pleural or peritoneal
Adenopathy: Enlarged local or distant nodes
Metastatic disease: Bony lesions, Liver or lung lesions

132

Neuroblastoma risk Stratification
 Risk stratification should be done at a tertiary centre before initiation of
therapy.
 In unresectable lesions generous core biopsy (image guided) should be
performed for histopathology and molecular studies.
Risk
Low
Intermediate
High

Age
<547 days
> 547 days
<547 days
> 547 days
<547 days
> 547 days
> 547 days

Stage
1, 2A/B,4S
1, 2A/B
3, 4
3
1, 2, 3, 4, 4S
1,2,3
4

MYCN status
NA
NA
NA
NA
Amp
Amp
Any

133

Management Algorithm

Neuroblastoma

Resectable
(No IDRF)

Unresectable
(IDRF +)

Upfront
Surgery

Intermediate
risk

High risk

Low risk

Intermediate
risk

High risk

NACT

Induction CT

Observe

Adjuvant CT
+ RT

Consolidation
theapy

Surgery

Surgery

Adjuvant CT
+ RT

Consolidation
theapy

HD CT + ABMT

SD CT + RT

13 CRA

13 CRA

HD CT + ABMT

SD CT + RT

13 CRA

13 CRA

HD CT = High Dose Chemotherapy
SD CT = Standard Dose Chemotherapy
ABMT = Autologous Bone Marrow Transplant
13 CRA = 13 Cis Retinoic Acid
134

Wilms’ tumor
Wilms’ tumor predominantly affects children under 5 years of age, most commonly during the
first 2 years of life. Contemporary treatment of Wilms’ tumor has led to an overall survival of
over 85% and the emphasis is now shifting from successful treatment to reducing treatmentassociated morbidity without loss of efficacy.
Radiological report for Wilm’s Tumor
Should be a contrast enhanced CT/MRI of abdomen
Laterality: Right or Left or Bilateral disease
Location: which pole
Size
Local extent:
 Is it Completely Intra-renal location or is Perinephric spread evident
 Renal sinus infiltration.
 Renal vein status
 IVC status.
 Renal artery : comment about the abdominal origin as well, comment on accessory
arteries if any
 Infiltration of liver, pancreas, bowel, GB, or abdominal wall
Significant ascites, Peritoneal implants
Adenopathy: Enlarged nodes
Metastatic disease: Lung, liver, bone or extra-abdominal nodes

135

Synoptic Pathology report for renal tumour
Gross Examination: Received a specimen of right / left radical nephrectomy / nephrectomy/
partial nephrectomy measuring -------X------X-------- cm. including perinephric fat. Hilum of the
kidney shows ureter measuring --------cm along with arterial and venous stumps.
On cutting open, the kidney measures ----------X--------X--------cm and shows a tumour measuring
--------X--------X-------- cm involving---------------------------------of the kidney. Cut surface of the
tumour is solid / nodular solid / solid-cystic. Areas of necrosis and hemorrhage are----------------------. Tumour invades through the renal capsule and extends into perinephric fat grossly / does
not invade the renal capsule. Tumour involves / does not involve the Gerotta’s ( renal )fascia.
Renal sinus is----------------. Renal vein invasion is--------------------------------. Renal pelvis and ureter
are-----------------------------. Resection end of ureter is ------------------------------- Resection end of
renal vein is -----------------------------. Hilum of the kidney reveals-----------------nodes. Foci of
nephroblastomatosis are not indentified / identified . A slice of the tumour is cut in a grid
fashion and submitted for histopathology examination.

Please draw the tumour and indicate tumour grid in the above diagram

Block identification:
136

IIIIIIIVV-

Microscopy:
Right / Left radical nephrectomy / Nephrectomy / Partial nephrectomy ,
Post chemotherapy / History of neo-adjuvent chemotherapy unknownTriphasic / Biphasic / blastemal predominant / teratoid Wilm’s tumour of ------------kidney.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Favourable histology ( FH ) / unfavourable histology (UH )
Anaplasia is absent. Focal / diffuse anaplasia is seen.
Vascular invasion -------------------Tumour does not invade the renal capsule / invades the renal capsule and is seen in perinephric
fat..
Gerotta’s fascia is ----------------------------------Renal sinus involvement is------------------------------------Renal vein involvement is ---------------------------Hilar lymph nodes---------------------------------------------------------------------------------Foci of nephroblastomatosis are not seen / -----------------type of nephroblastomatosis is
present. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Resection margins of ureter, renal vein and renal artery are --------------------------------Adrenal is ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Impression:
Right / Left radical nephrectomy / Nephrectomy / Partial nephrectomy ,
Post chemotherapy / History of neo-adjuvent chemotherapy unknown.:
Wilm’s tumour, ----------------histology, ---------------invading renal capsule / -------------------invading Gerotta’s fascia, -- -------involving --------------lymph nodes.

137

Management Algorithm

WILMS TUMOR

Resectable

Unresectable/Metastatic

Upfront resection

Upfront chemotherapy
4-6 weeks VAD
Nephrectomy with RP
lymph node sampling

Stage 1 FH/UH &
2 FH

Stage 3 FH

18 weeks VA

24 weeks VAD
RT

Stage 2-4 UH

Stage 4 FH

24 weeks VAD
+ Local RT( as per local stage )
+ RT/Surgery for Metastases

24 weeks VAD +Cy +Eto
Local RT
+ RT/Surgery for Metastases

V= Vincristin
A= Actinomycin D
D= Doxorubicin
Cy = Cyclophosphamide Eto= Etoposide
RP = Retroperitoneal RT= Radiotherapy
FH=Favourable Histology UH= Unfavourable Histology

138

