Guideline

Page 1 of 28

Chinese Society of Clinical Oncology (CSCO) Breast Cancer
Guidelines 2022
Zefei Jiang1, Jianbin Li1, Jiayi Chen2, Yueping Liu3, Kun Wang4, Jianyun Nie5, Xiaojia Wang6,
Chunfang Hao7, Yongmei Yin8, Shusen Wang9, Min Yan10, Tao Wang1, Ying Yan11, Xiaoyuan Chen12,
Erwei Song13; CSCO BC guideline working group
1

The Fifth Medical Center of PLA General Hospital, Beijing, China; 2Ruijin Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of

Medicine, Shanghai, China; 3The Fourth Affiliated Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, China; 4Guangdong Provincial Peoples
Hospital, Guangzhou, China; 5The 3rd Affiliated Hospital of Kunming Medical University, Kunming, China; 6Cancer Hospital Affiliated to the
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hangzhou, China; 7Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute & Hospital, Tianjin, China; 8Jiangsu
Provincial Peoples Hospital, Nanjing, China; 9Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, Guangzhou, China; 10Henan Provincial Cancer Hospital,
Shijiazhuang, China; 11Peking University Cancer Hospital & Institute, Beijing, China; 12Tsinghua Clinical Research Institute (TCRI), School of
Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China; 13Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China
Correspondence to: Zefei Jiang. Senior Department of Oncology, the Fifth Medical Center of PLA General Hospital, Beijing, China.
Email: jiangzefei@csco.org.cn.

Abstract: Developing guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of common cancers in China based on the
evidence-based practice, the availability of diagnosis and treatment products, and the up-to-date advances
in precision medicine is one of the basic tasks of the Chinese Society of Clinical Oncology (CSCO). In
recent years, the availability of medical resources has become a major concern in clinical guidelines, which
is particularly important for developing countries or socioeconomically diverse countries and territories.
China is the world’s largest developing country, with a large territory and uneven economic and academic
developments. The CSCO guidelines must take into account the differences in regional development, the
availability of medicines and diagnostic methods, and the social value of cancer treatment. Therefore, for
each clinical problem and intervention in the CSCO guidelines, the levels of evidence should be graded
according to the currently available evidences and expert consensuses, and the grades of recommendations
should be based on the availability and cost-effectiveness of the products. Protocols with high evidence
level and good availability are used as the Level I recommendations; protocols with relatively high evidence
level but slightly lower expert consensus or with poor availability are used as the Level II recommendations;
and protocols that are clinically applicable but with low evidence level are regarded as the Level III
recommendations. Based on the findings of clinical research at home and abroad and the opinions of CSCO
experts, the CSCO guidelines determine the levels of recommendations for clinical application. The CSCO
Guidance Working Group firmly believes that evidence-based, availability-concerned, and consensus-based
guidelines will be more feasible for clinical practice. Again, any comments from our readers are greatly
appreciated and will be considered in updates of these guidelines, so as to maintain the accuracy, fairness, and
timeliness of the CSCO guidelines.
Keywords: Chinese Society of Clinical Oncology Breast Cancer (CSCO BC); guideline; accessibility;
recommendation
Received: 08 April 2022; Accepted: 21 April 2022; Published: 30 April 2022.
doi: 10.21037/tbcr-22-21
View this article at: https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Page 2 of 28

Introduction
Breast cancer has been one of the most common diagnosed
cancers both in China and worldwide. Choosing an optimal
guideline for breast cancer in China based on the clinical
practice, the availability of treatment products, and the upto-date evidences has become a major concern for Chinese
Society of Clinical Oncology Breast Cancer (CSCO BC)
committee.
CSCO BC guideline has taken all the differences in
regional development, the availability of medicines, and the
social value of cancer treatment into account since its first
publication in 2017. In this guideline, the guideline working
group determine the levels of recommendations for clinical
application according to the currently evidences, expert
consensuses, and the availability as well as cost-effectiveness
in China. For example, in CSCO BC guideline, regimens
with high evidence level and good availability are regarded
as the Level I recommendations; for these with relatively
high evidence level but slightly lower expert consensus or
poor availability are used as the Level II recommendations;
and protocols with low evidence level while are clinically
applicable are regarded as the Level III recommendations.
We firmly believe that will be more feasible for clinical
practice in China.
Here in this article, we would like to report the latest
version and updates in CSCO BC guideline so as to
maintain the accuracy, fairness, and timeliness of this
guideline.
Preoperative neoadjuvant treatment of breast
cancer
Patients who meet one of the following conditions may
choose preoperative neoadjuvant treatment: (I) large tumor
size; (II) positive axillary lymph nodes; (III) HER2-positive;
(IV) triple-negative; and (V) with a desire of breastconserving surgery, which, however, cannot be achieved due
to the large proportion of tumor among breast.
Neoadjuvant treatment can be considered for primary
breast masses sized >5 cm; for primary breast masses sized
2–5 cm, other biological markers should be detected before
a decision of neoadjuvant treatment is made.
Neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer
Clinical studies have proved that neoadjuvant treatment with
trastuzumab plus chemotherapy significantly increase the

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

pathologic complete response (pCR) rate in HER2-positive
breast cancer patients, laying a foundation for trastuzumab
as a standard agent in the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2positive breast cancer. In an era of dual-targeted therapy, the
expert group generally recognizes that dual-targeted therapy
can be considered during the neoadjuvant treatment in all
patients who qualify for single-targeted therapy.
The NeoSphere study (1) showed that adding pertuzumab
to trastuzumab and chemotherapy (TH) could further
increase the pCR rate in HER2-positive patients. The
PEONY study (2) confirmed the effectiveness and safety of
the THP (paclitaxel + trastuzumab + pertuzumab) regime
in Asian populations. Therefore, THP can be used as a
neoadjuvant treatment in HER2-positive patients. However,
in the above study, surgery was performed after 4 cycles of
neoadjuvant treatment with THP, and the dual-targeted
therapy was suspended after surgery and then continued
after 3 cycles of FEC therapy. Thus, the clinical feasibility
of this protocol was quite questionable. The KRISTINE
study (3) confirmed the effectiveness and safety of TCbHP
regimen in neoadjuvant treatment. The TRAIN-2 study (4)
showed that the TCbHP regimen could achieve the same
pCR rate compared to an anthracycline-based regimen,
but with significantly lower toxicities such as neutropenia.
Therefore, TCbHP can be the preferred regimen in
preoperative treatment. However, 6 cycles of THP therapy
may also be considered for some patients, such as those
aged >60 years with a small tumor burden and generally
intolerant to platinum-based combination regimens. Based
on the findings of research on AC→TH (anthracycline
combined with cyclophosphamide followed by sequential
taxanes combined with trastuzumab)regimen in the singletargeted era, some experts agree that AC→THP can be
used as an optional regimen for neoadjuvant therapy, which,
however, has not been validated in well-designed clinical
studies.
Trastuzumab combined with taxane-based chemotherapy
has become the basic regimen in neoadjuvant chemotherapy
for HER2-positive breast cancer. The TCbH (docetaxel,
carboplatin combined with trastuzumab) regimen has
been demonstrated to be effective and safe in preoperative
neoadjuvant therapy and postoperative adjuvant therapy and
thus can be recommended for neoadjuvant therapy.
The PHEDRA study was designed to explore the
efficacy and safety of pyrotinib in combination with
trastuzumab and docetaxel (pyrotinib group) versus
placebo in combination with trastuzumab and docetaxel
(control group) in the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Page 3 of 28

Table 1 Recommendations of neoadjuvant therapy for HER2-positive breast cancer
Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

(I) TCbHP (1A)

(I) Anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody combined with taxane-based regimens (2B)

(II) THP ×4 (1B)
(III) THP ×6 (2A)

• Such as TCbH (2B) and AC→THP (2B)
(II) Scientific and rationally designed clinical trials
• Such as H + TKI and anti-HER2 ADC

T, taxene; A, anthracycline; C, cyclophosphamide; Cb, carboplatin; H, trastuzumab; P, pertuzumab; TKI, tyrosine kinase inhibitor; ADC,
antibody drug conjugate.

positive early or locally advanced breast cancer. The results
showed that the pCR rate was 41% in the pyrotinib group,
compared with 22% in the control group, demonstrating
a statistically significant difference (superiority) and
confirming that the neoadjuvant regimen of “pyrotinib +
trastuzumab”, a combination of large and small molecules,
can provide a clear benefit for patients with HER2-positive
early-stage breast cancer (Table 1).
The pre-planned treatment cycles must be completed
during the neoadjuvant therapy for HER2-positive breast
cancer. Surgery is performed only after the full course
of neoadjuvant therapy is completed. The postoperative
adjuvant treatment is performed (or not) based on
the implementation of neoadjuvant therapy and the
achievement of postoperative pCR. Pathological evaluation
is an important tool for evaluating the efficacy of preoperative neoadjuvant chemotherapy and the pCR achieved
after surgery. It is valuable for evaluating the effectiveness
of neoadjuvant therapy and determining postoperative
adjuvant treatment options. There are two definitions of
pCR: (I) generally, it means the achievement of no residual
histological evidence of malignant tumor in the primary
breast cancer, with or without the presence of carcinoma
in situ; and (II) more strictly, it means the achievement of
no histological evidence of malignant tumors in the primary
breast lesion or in metastatic regional lymph nodes, with or
without the presence of carcinoma in situ.
For patients who have reached pCR after a full course
of neoadjuvant therapy, the initial targeted therapy may
continue in the postoperative adjuvant therapy. For patients
who only use trastuzumab for neoadjuvant therapy, dualtargeted therapy can also be considered based on the
outcomes of postoperative adjuvant therapy. Clinical studies
have shown that the dual-targeted therapy with trastuzumab
and pertuzumab is superior to trastuzumab alone. In the
KATHERINE study (5), for patients who failed to achieve
pCR after preoperative treatment with trastuzumab,

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

adjuvant therapy with T-DM1 further improved the
prognosis. However, so far there is no definite evidence
that T-DM1 is superior to HP therapy; thus, subsequent
treatments should be rationally selected in patients who fail
to achieve pCR after dual-targeted neoadjuvant therapy:
(I) if the tumor regression is obvious after a full course of
treatment (e.g., Miller & Payne grades 3 and 4), continuing
the use of dual-targeted therapy is preferred; and (II) if the
tumor regression is not obvious (e.g., Miller & Payne grades
1 and 2), switching to T-DM1 may be a more feasible
option.
In the ExteNET study (6), patients with stage II–III
HER2-positive breast cancer started adjuvant treatment
with oral neratinib for 1 year within 2 years of completing
adjuvant trastuzumab. Compared with the placebo group,
the neratinib group had significantly increased invasive
disease-free survival (iDFS) rate. For patients who do not
achieve pCR after neoadjuvant therapy, HP or T-DM1 is
preferred in adjuvant targeted therapy. Sequential neratinib
can be considered after the completion of adjuvant targeted
therapy with HP; however, there is still a lack of direct data
on whether sequential neratinib is feasible in patients who
choose T-DM1 (Table 2).
Neoadjuvant treatment for triple-negative breast cancer
(TNBC)
The treatment regimen and cycles are decided before
neoadjuvant chemotherapy according to different
treatment aims. In principle, in patients who respond to the
combination of anthracycline and taxanes, the neoadjuvant
chemotherapy should be completed as planned, and the
timing and procedure of surgery should be discussed timely.
However, the chemotherapy regimen may be changed
for those operable patients who respond poorly to the
neoadjuvant chemotherapy. For instance, some patients
may respond poorly to AT, in whom NP may be applied

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Page 4 of 28

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Table 2 Recommendations of adjuvant therapy after neoadjuvant therapy

Preoperative anti-HER2
treatment with trastuzumab
alone

Stratification

Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

Level III recommendations

pCR

HP (2A)

Trastuzumab (1B)

−

NonpCR

(I) T-DM1 (1B)

−

Sequential neratinib after
HP (2A)

(II) HP (2A)
Preoperative anti-HER2
treatment with trastuzumab
and pertuzumab

pCR

HP (1A)

Trastuzumab (2B)

−

NonpCR

(I) T-DM1 (1B)

−

Sequential neratinib after
HP (2A)

(II) HP (2A)

H, trastuzumab; P, pertuzumab; pCR, pathological complete response; nonpCR, non-pathological complete response.

Table 3 Recommendations of neoadjuvant therapy for triple negative breast cancer
Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

Level III recommendations

(I) Combination of anthracycline and taxanes:

(I) AC→T (2A)

Chemotherapy combined with PD-1
inhibitors

(i)

TAC (1A)

(ii) AT (2A)
(II) TP (2A)

(II) AC→TP (2A)
(III) Participates in rigorously-designed
clinical trial

T, taxene; A, anthracycline; C, cyclophosphamide; P, platinum.

instead. If the response to sequential treatment is still
poor, the treatment strategy should be adjusted to seek
surgical opportunities. For patients who do not reach pCR
after completing neoadjuvant treatment, 6 to 8 cycles of
capecitabine may be given after surgery.
The results of the neoCART study (7) showed that a
6-cycle TP regimen can further improve the pCR rate of
neoadjuvant therapy in TNBC patients compared with an
8-cycle AC→T regimen; however, platinum-containing
regimens are not routinely recommended due to the lack of
data from phase III clinical trials. Nevertheless, platinumcontaining regimens may be considered for young TNBC
cancer patients with a family history of breast cancer,
especially when there is a BRCA mutation.
The KEYNOTE 522 study (8) suggested that, in TNBC
patients, the addition of PD-1 inhibitors on the basis of TPAC in neoadjuvant therapy significantly increased the pCR
rate, and the continued use of PD-1 inhibitors after surgery
further improved the event-free survival (EFS) (Table 3).
In TNBC patients, subsequent therapy should be
selected according to whether pCR is achieved after
neoadjuvant therapy. According to the CREATE-X study,
if pCR is not achieved after a full course of neoadjuvant
chemotherapy, 6–8 cycles of capecitabine can be given after
surgery; for patients with a BRCA mutation, treatment

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

with olaparib can also be considered after neoadjuvant
therapy (9).
PD-1 inhibitors are considered for adjuvant therapy
only in patients who were treated with PD-1 inhibitors
in neoadjuvant therapy. TNBC patients who have been
treated with PD-1 inhibitors in neoadjuvant therapy can
continue to use PD-1 inhibitors for a full year after surgery,
regardless of whether they achieve pCR after surgery.
Patients should be strictly monitored for adverse effects
during the use of PD-1 inhibitors (Table 4).
Neoadjuvant endocrine therapy for hormone
receptor-positive breast cancer
Preoperative endocrine therapy is feasible for the following
populations: (I) patients who require preoperative treatment
but are not suitable for chemotherapy; (II) patients who
are temporarily unsuitable for surgery; and (III) hormonedependent patients who do not need immediate surgery.
For postmenopausal hormone receptor-positive patients,
the third-generation aromatase inhibitors (including
anastrozole, letrozole, and exemestane) are recommended
for neoadjuvant endocrine therapy; fulvestrant may be
considered in some patients who are not suitable for
aromatase inhibitors (e.g., with a bone density T-score

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Page 5 of 28

Table 4 Recommendations of adjuvant therapy after neoadjuvant therapy
Stratification

Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

Level III recommendations

pCR

−

−

Continue the use of PD-1 inhibitors for a full year in
patients who have been treated with PD-1 inhibitors
during neoadjuvant therapy (2B)

nonpCR

Capecitabine (1A)

Olaparib (in the presence
of a BRCA mutation) (1B)

Continue the use of PD-1 inhibitors for a full year in
patients who have been treated with PD-1 inhibitors
during neoadjuvant therapy (2B)

PCR, pathological complete response; nonpCR, non-pathological complete response.

Table 5 Recommendations of neoadjuvant endocrine therapy for HR positive breast cancer
Stratification

Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

Postmenopausal

• AI (1A)

Fulvestrant (2B) (participates in rigorously-designed clinical trials)

• AI + CDK4/6 inhibitors (2A)
Premenopausal

−

• OFS + AI (1A)
• OFS + AI + CDK4/6 inhibitors (2B)

AI, aromatase inhibitor; OFS, ovarian function suppression.

of <−2.5). For premenopausal hormone receptor-positive
patients, ovarian function suppression plus aromatase
inhibitors may be applied. Some patients with locally
advanced breast cancer requiring neoadjuvant endocrine
therapy may be treated with endocrine therapy combined
with CDK4/6 inhibitors or participate in clinical trials.
Generally, the response to preoperative endocrine therapy
should be evaluated every 2 months. If the treatment is
effective and tolerable, it can last for up to 6 months. Patients
will undergo surgical treatment after the preoperative
endocrine therapy is completed. Postoperative treatments are
then chosen based on the postoperative pathology.
Few clinical studies have compared the values of
preoperative endocrine therapy versus preoperative
chemotherapy in premenopausal patients. In principle,
preoperative endocrine therapy is not recommended for
premenopausal patients (except for clinical studies) (Table 5).
Postoperative adjuvant treatment for breast
cancer
Adjuvant treatment for HER2-positive breast cancer
As shown in the APHINITY study (10), compared with the
trastuzumab-containing regimen, the dual-targeted therapy
containing pertuzumab and trastuzumab reduced the risk
of recurrence, especially in lymph node-positive patients.

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

Therefore, for patients at high risk of recurrence, especially
for patients with positive axillary lymph nodes, dual-targeted
therapy with pertuzumab and trastuzumab is recommended.
However, experts disagree that dual-targeted therapy
should be considered in all patients who are suitable for
single-targeted adjuvant therapy. For patients with negative
axillary lymph nodes, other risk factors (e.g., large tumor
size, negative ER status, histological grade 3, and high
Ki-67 expression) should also be considered before
an optimal treatment protocol is made. The NSABP
B-31/-N9831 study (11) demonstrated that AC→TH was
superior to conventional AC→T. The BCIRG006 study
demonstrated that TCbH was also superior to AC→T and
thus could be used as another option for adjuvant treatment.
After a 10-year long-term follow-up, the study showed
TCbH and AC→TH had similar long-term efficacy;
however, the incidence of cardiac insufficiency was lower in
the TCbH group. Therefore, TCbH may be selected for
patients with higher requirement on cardiac safety.
Studies have shown that the 5-year risk of recurrence/
metastasis in HER2-positive T1abN0M0 patients is more
than 5 times that of HER2-negative patients. Therefore,
patients with HER2-positive and lymph node-negative
small tumors are still at high risk of recurrence compared
with those with HER2-negative small tumors. For this
group of patients, chemotherapy can be further reduced on

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Page 6 of 28

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Table 6 Recommendations of initial adjuvant therapy for HER2 positive breast cancer
Stratification

Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

Level III recommendations

Positive axillary lymph nodes

• AC→THP (1A)

• AC→TH (2A)

TC + H (2B)

• TCbHP (1A)

• TCbH (2A)

• AC→TH (2A)

• AC→THP (2A)

• TCbH (2A)

• TCbHP (2A)

Negative axillary lymph nodes: tumor sized
>2 cm but without other risk factors; or,
tumor sized ≤2 cm

TC + H (2A)

TH (2B)

−

Positive hormone receptors and no
chemotherapy is required; or, cannot
tolerate chemotherapy

−

H + endocrine therapy (2A)

−

Negative axillary lymph nodes, tumor sized
>2 cm, and with high risk factors such as: (I)
ER-negative; (II) high Ki67 expression

TC + H (2B)

T, taxene; A, anthracycline; C, cyclophosphamide; Cb, carboplatin; H, trastuzumab; P, pertuzumab.

Table 7 Recommendations of intensive adjuvant therapy for HER2 positive breast cancer
Stratification

Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

Positive lymph nodes and after adjuvant therapy with H

Sequential neratinib (1A)

−

Positive lymph nodes and after adjuvant therapy with HP

−

Sequential neratinib (2A)

H, trastuzumab; P, pertuzumab.

top of trastuzumab. Previous studies suggest that patients
with early-stage breast cancer treated with TC + H had
2-year DFS and 2-year OS rates as high as 97.8% and
99.2% (12), and the APT study (13) suggested that patients
with HER2-positive small tumors (≤3 cm) had a 3-year
iDFS rate of 98.7% with the wTH regimen. Therefore,
TC + H or wTH regimens may be considered for low-risk
patients with T1N0 HER2-positive tumors (Table 6).
The ExteNET study (6) explored another anti-HER2
dual-targeted treatment strategy in patients with stage II–
III HER2-positive breast cancer started adjuvant treatment
with oral neratinib for 1 year within 2 years of completing
adjuvant trastuzumab. Compared with the placebo group,
the neratinib group had significantly increased iDFS rate.
When intensive targeted therapy is required in HER2positive patients, the indication for dual-targeted therapy
should be considered first. For patients who have completed
trastuzumab-based adjuvant therapy and whose disease
has not progressed but have high-risk factors, sequential
neratinib may be considered (Table 7).
A s d r u g s s u c h a s tra s tu z u ma b a nd p ertu zumab
may increase cardiotoxicity, its concurrent use with
anthracyclines is not recommended; however, these drugs
can be used concurrently with adjuvant radiotherapy and

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

adjuvant endocrine therapy. For hormone receptor-positive
patients, endocrine therapy combined targeted therapy
can be considered in low-risk patients who do not need
chemotherapy or in patients who need chemotherapy but
cannot tolerate it.
Adjuvant treatment for TNBC
Principles of adjuvant chemotherapy include: (I) the
purpose of adjuvant chemotherapy for early breast cancer is
to cure the disease; therefore, the chemotherapy should be
performed in a standardized manner, including the standard
regimen. drugs, dosages, treatment cycles, and courses. (II)
The selection, dosing, and application of chemotherapy
drugs and the management of chemotherapy-associated
toxicities are particularly complicated. Factors such as
toxicity, individual differences, and comorbidities must
be considered. A chemotherapy regimen may be selected
according to the patient’s risk, tolerance, and personal
wishes as well as the background of a clinical trial.
Meanwhile, a protocol for preventing nausea/vomiting
and bone marrow suppression should be established.
(III) Special attention should be paid to the order of
administration, infusion time, and dose intensity of

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Page 7 of 28

Table 8 Recommendations of initial adjuvant therapy for triple negative breast cancer
Stratification

Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

Level III recommendations

In the presence of any of the following
conditions: positive lymph nodes; tumor sized
>2 cm

• AC→T 3 (1A)

• TAC (1B)

• FEC→T (2B)

• ddAC-ddT (1A)

• TP (2A)

• AC→TP (2B)

• AC (1A)

• AC→T (2A)

−

• TC ×4 (1A)

• TC ×6 (2A)

Patients at low risk of recurrence: tumor sized
≤2 cm and with negative lymph nodes

T, taxene; A, anthracycline; C, cyclophosphamide; P, platinum; E, epirubicin; F, fluorouracil.

chemotherapy drugs during chemotherapy. The drug
instructions and the incompatibility of drugs must be
strictly followed. In general, do not reduce the number
cycles in a standard chemotherapy regimen unless there are
special circumstances.
For some patients with TNBC, if there are known BRCA
mutations, platinum (e.g., cisplatin and carboplatin) may be
added on top of anthracyclines and taxanes. Most experts
believe that platinum should be considered in advance in
neoadjuvant therapy for these patients. In the HR-negative
subgroup, the AC→paclitaxel 3-week regimen achieved
better DFS than AC adjuvant chemotherapy. Therefore,
AC→T chemotherapy is currently recommended for
patients at relatively high risk of recurrence.
The role of platinums in the adjuvant treatment of
TNBC remains controversial. The PATTERN study (14)
showed that platinum-containing regimens improved 5-year
DFS by 6.2% (86.5% vs. 80.3%) and reduced the risk of
recurrence by 35% compared with FEC→T regimens,
and those with younger age and higher tumor grade were
found to benefit more from platinum-based therapy in an
exploratory subgroup analysis.
Some clinical studies have revealed that 4-cycle AC
regimen, as a shorter and simpler treatment, was equivalent
to CMF regimen in terms of efficacy; in addition, the
toxicities were not significantly different between these
two regimens. Thus, AC can be used as a basic regimen
for some intermediate- and low-risk patients who require
adjuvant chemotherapy.
The US9735 study (15) compared the efficacy of TC
versus AC in the adjuvant chemotherapy of breast cancer.
The proportions of intermediate- and low-risk patients
were high in this study. It was found that TC brought
improvements in DFS and overall survival (OS). Therefore,
for some intermediate- and low-risk patients who require
adjuvant chemotherapy, especially when there is a hidden
risk of anthracycline cardiotoxicity, adjuvant chemotherapy

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

with TC is also preferred.
The PLAN B study (16), a clinical trial evaluating the
role of an adriamycin-free TC regimen versus conventional
A→T sequential therapy for the treatment of clinically
high-risk or genomically intermediate-to-high-risk HER2negative early breast cancer, and the results showed that
both TC and EC→T regimens achieved a 5-year diseasefree survival (DFS) rate of 90%, meeting the expected noninferiority criteria. TC has a similar survival outcome with
EC→T, and the 6-cycle TC regimen can be used as one of
the adjuvant treatment options for HER2-negative earlystage breast cancer (Table 8).
The SYSUCC-001 study (17), a Chinese clinical
research on the adjuvant treatment of early-stage TNBC,
investigated the value of standard adjuvant chemotherapy
followed by 1 year of capecitabine metronomic therapy.
During a median follow-up of 56.5 months, the 5-year DFS
rate was significantly higher in the capecitabine group than
in the control group. Therefore, standard chemotherapy
followed by capecitabine metronomic therapy for 1 year can
lower the risk of recurrence in TNBC patients.
The OlympiA study (18) enrolled high-risk patients
with HER2-negative BRCA1/2 mutations, and the results
suggested that sequential olaparib reduced the risk of
recurrence or death by 42% in patients after completion of
neoadjuvant or adjuvant therapy, with an absolute benefit
of 8.8%. However, there are no approved indications
for olaparib use in China. Therefore, the use of olaparib
treatment should be cautious for patients with TNBC with
BRCA1/2 mutations after completion of adjuvant therapy
(Table 9).
Adjuvant endocrine therapy for hormone receptor-positive
breast cancer
Adjuvant endocrine therapy is particularly important for
HR (ER/PR)-positive breast cancer patients. For the

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Page 8 of 28

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Table 9 Recommendations of intensive adjuvant therapy for triple negative breast cancer
Stratification

Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

In the presence of any of the following conditions: (I) positive lymph nodes; (II) tumor sized >2 cm
Without BRCA mutations

−

Chemotherapy followed by sequential capecitabine for 1 year (2A)

With BRCA mutations

−

Chemotherapy followed by sequential olaparib for 1 year (1B)

−

Chemotherapy followed by sequential capecitabine for 1 year (2B)

Negative lymph nodes and tumor
sized 1–2 cm

criteria of hormone receptor positive, please refer to the
“Molecular typing”. The biological behavior of weakly
ER-positive breast cancer (with a positive rate of 1–9%)
is similar to that of ER-negative breast cancer. Therefore,
adjuvant chemotherapy should not be abandoned in these
patients. After adjuvant chemotherapy is completed,
adjuvant endocrine therapy can be considered as
appropriate (19). However, for premenopausal breast cancer
patients with an ER positivity of 1–9%, ovarian function
suppression combined with oral endocrine drugs is not
recommended. Concurrent adjuvant chemo-endocrine
therapy is not recommended. Endocrine therapy may be
started after the chemotherapy cycle is over. Radiotherapy
and endocrine therapy can be carried out either sequentially
or concurrently.
Ovarian function is a key indicator in the selection of
adjuvant endocrine therapy. No matter whether the patient
is receiving chemotherapy or not, the patient’s menstrual
status must be inquired before the commencement of
systemic treatment, which helps to determine the patient’s
ovarian function status and informs the development
of all-course adjuvant treatment regimen(s). Definition
of menopause: menopause can be divided into natural
menopause and artificial menopause. Generally, it refers to
the permanent cessation of menstruation, which indicates
that the estrogen synthesized by the ovaries continuously
decreases. Women will be considered menopausal if they
meet any of the following criteria:
(I) Bilateral oophorectomy;
(II) Age ≥60 years;
(III) Age <60 years; amenorrhea for 12 or more months;
having not received chemotherapy, tamoxifen,
toremifene, or ovarian suppression within the past
12 months; follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and
estradiol levels within the postmenopausal range;
(IV) If taking tamoxifen or toremifene and age
<60 years, FSH and plasma estradiol levels should
be in post-menopausal range in two consecutive

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

measurements.
Adjuvant endocrine therapy strategies for
postmenopausal breast cancer patients
The 10-year follow-up data from the ATAC study showed
that 5-year AI treatment significantly improved DFS and
lowered the risk of recurrence compared to 5-year TAM
treatment, which confirmed the role of AI as a standard
regimen for adjuvant treatment of early breast cancer in
postmenopausal patients. The BIG-198 study (20) validated
the above results and further demonstrated that there was
no significant difference in treatment response between
5-year TAM/AI switching strategy and AI 5-year therapy.
Therefore, the 5-year AI therapy is recommended as the
initial adjuvant endocrine therapy for postmenopausal
patients; for patients having medical contraindications to AI
use, TAM may be considered for initial adjuvant endocrine
therapy.
The MA17 study (21) included patients whose initial
adjuvant endocrine therapy was TAM, which was switched
to AI after 2–5 years, and the total duration of adjuvant
endocrine therapy was at least 5 years. The results of
these studies confirmed the feasibility and effectiveness of
switching to AI for 2–5 years after initial adjuvant treatment
with TAM (for patients who were pre-menopausal upon the
commencement of initial treatment and were then confirmed
as postmenopausal during treatment or for patients who
initially chose TAM after menopause) (Table 10).
According to the results of the BIG1-98 study, the
switching strategy was more suitable for patients who could
not tolerate the initial regimen. During the treatment with
AI or TAM, patients should be instructed to properly deal
with adverse drug reactions. Switch between AI and TAM if
either drug cannot be tolerated. For instance, if AI cannot
be tolerated during the initial treatment, TAM can be used
instead.
The MonarchE study (22) included patients with 4 or
more positive lymph nodes and patients with 1–3 positive

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Page 9 of 28

Table 10 Recommendations of initial adjuvant endocrine therapy for HR positive postmenopausal breast cancer patients
Treatment phase

Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

Level III recommendations

Patients at low risk of recurrence:

(I) AI for 5 years + Abemaciclib
for 2 years (1A)

(I) TAM for 5 years +
abemaciclib for 2 years

TAM for 5 years (2B)

(I) ≥4 positive lymph nodes

(II) 1–3 positive lymph nodes but
(II) AI for 5 years (2A)
with other risk factors including:
(i)

(II) Sequential TAM for
2–3 years sequential AI for
2–3 years (2A)

G3

(ii) Tumor sized ≥5 cm
(iii) Ki-67 ≥20%
Patients at low risk of recurrence:
(I) Negative lymph nodes
(II) 1–3 positive lymph nodes and
meeting any of the following
conditions
(i)

(I) AI for 5 years (1A)
(II) Patients who initially receive
tamoxifen as adjuvant therapy
may switch to AI 5-year
treatment during the treatment
course (1A)

TAM for 2–3 years, sequential AI
for 2–3 years (2A)

TAM for 5 years (2B)

G1–2

(ii) Tumor sized <5 cm
(iii) Ki-67 <20%
AI, aromatase inhibitor; TAM, tamoxifen.

lymph nodes but with high-risk factors (histology grade
3, tumor sized ≥5 cm, and/or Ki67 ≥20%) and found that
after completion of (neo)adjuvant chemotherapy, the
addition of abemaciclib for 2 years on top of endocrine
therapy further decreased the risk of recurrence, with a
2-year absolute survival benefit of 3.5%. Therefore, for
the patient population eligible for the MonarchE study,
the combination of 2-year abemaciclib on top of standard
endocrine therapy may be feasible.
The initial adjuvant endocrine therapy with AI can be
discontinued after 5 years of use in postmenopausal lowrisk breast cancer patients. “Low risk” is defined as patients
who meet all of the following conditions: postoperative
pT ≤2 cm; G1; negative lymph nodes; without peritumoral
vascular invasion; ER- and/or PR-positive; and HER2negative. After initial 5 years of adjuvant AI therapy, if the
patient tolerates it well and meets any of the following
conditions, extending the endocrine therapy may be
considered: (I) positive lymph nodes; (II) G3; (III) with
other risk factors (e.g., Ki67 >30%) that require adjuvant
chemotherapy.
As found in the MA17R study, patients received 5
additional years of AI after initial treatment with TAM for
3–5 years followed by 5 years of AI treatment (i.e., the
duration of AI treatment reached 10 years), the risk of

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

recurrence was further reduced compared to the placebo
group. In the NSABP-B42 trial, it was found that in patients
who had received 5 years of AI or in patients who had
received 2.5 years of TAM and then switched to AI for
2.5 years, an additional 5 years of AI treatment significantly
lowered the risk of breast cancer recurrence. These evidences
supported the clinical application of extended AI therapy.
No randomized controlled trial has explored the role
of 5 years of AI followed by 5 years of TAM or AI in
postmenopausal patients. However, since some previous
studies have demonstrated that switching to AI for another
5 years after 5 years of TAM treatment can be beneficial,
switching to 5-year TAM treatment may be feasible in
patients who require extended therapy but cannot tolerate
AI treatment (Table 11).
Adjuvant endocrine therapy strategies for
premenopausal breast cancer patients
The NATO and Stockholm studies have confirmed that,
for patients who were HR-positive after surgery, adjuvant
treatment with TAM for 5 years significantly prolonged DFS
and OS compared with no endocrine therapy or TAM for
2 years. On the basis of the standard postoperative adjuvant
treatment, the SOFT study (23) compared the efficacies
between OFS + TAM and TAM alone for 5 years. During

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Page 10 of 28

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Table 11 Recommendations of intensive adjuvant endocrine therapy for HR positive postmenopausal breast cancer patients
Treatment phase

Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

After initial 5 years of adjuvant AI therapy, if the patient tolerates it well and
meets any of the following conditions, extending the endocrine therapy may
be considered: (I) positive lymph nodes; (II) G3; (III) with other risk factors
that require adjuvant chemotherapy

Continue the use of AI (2A)

Switch to TAM (2B)

AI, aromatase inhibitor; TAM, tamoxifen.

Table 12 Recommendations of initial adjuvant endocrine therapy for HR positive premenopausal breast cancer patients
Stratification

Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

Level III recommendations

≥4 positive lymph nodes

(I) OFS + AI for 5 years +
abemaciclib for 2 years (1A)

(I) OFS + TAM + abemaciclib
for 2 years (1B)

TAM for 5 years (2B)

(II) OFS + AI for 5 years (2A)

(II) OFS + TAM for 5 years (2A)

1–3 positive lymph nodes, along with
one of the following risk factors: (I) G3;
(II) Ki-67 ≥20%; (III) tumor sized ≥5 cm

(I) OFS + TAM for 5 years +
abemaciclib for 2 years (1A)

(I) OFS + AI for 5 years +
abemaciclib for 2 years (1B)

(II) OFS + TAM (2A)

(II) OFS + AI for 5 years (2A)

1–3 positive lymph nodes but without
other risk factors; or, negative lymph
node but with one of the following risk
factors: (I) G2 or G3; (II) tumor sized
>2 cm; (III) high Ki-67 expression

OFS + TAM for 5 years (1A)

OFS + AI for 5 years (2A)

TAM (2B)

Negative lymph nodes and meeting
any of the following conditions: (I) G1;
(II) tumor sized ≤2 cm; (III) low Ki-67
expression

TAM for 5 years (1A)

−

−

TAM for 5 years (2B)

OFS, ovarian function suppression; AI, aromatase inhibitor; TAM, tamoxifen.

the 8-year follow-up, the OFS combinations significantly
prolonged the DFS of premenopausal patients, with the
DFS benefit increased by 7% in the OFS + AI subgroup;
compared with the TAM monotherapy group, the 8-year
distant recurrence-free interval (DRFI) increased by 2.8%
in the OFS + AI group. Most of the patients in the predesignated postoperative non-adjuvant chemotherapy
subgroup were lymph node negative, G1, and T <2 cm, and
subgroup analysis showed that there was limited benefit from
OFS plus endocrine therapy. Therefore, it is recommended
that the basic strategy of postoperative adjuvant endocrine
therapy for these patients is 5-year TAM treatment (Table 12).
Strategies used for ovarian suppression include druginduced ovarian function suppression [e.g., GnRH
agonists (GnRHa) such as goserelin and leuprolide] and
surgery. Ovarian radiotherapy has been available but it is
not routinely recommended. Be wary of the possibility of
incomplete drug-induced ovarian function suppression;
however, it is not recommended to routinely monitor

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

hormone levels during the use of GnRHa.
The pre-set chemotherapy subgroup in the SOFT study
and the analysis of the clinical characteristics of patients
benefiting from chemotherapy combined with OFS in the
2007 meta-analysis of OFS showed that patients with positive
lymph nodes, higher tumor grade [2–3] and large size (>2 cm)
were more likely to benefit from the OFS combinations. For
patients receiving chemotherapy, the distant recurrence rate
was reduced by 2.6% in the TEXT study and by 3.4% in the
SOFT study, which confirmed the benefit of 5-year OFS + AI
treatment. Further comprehensive quantitative analysis (24)
revealed that factors associated with the absolute benefit of
OFS + AI included age <35 years, ≥4 positive lymph nodes,
and histological grade 3. Thus, patients with these factors are
more likely to benefit from OFS + AI treatment.
No relevant research has been carried out in patients
who are pre-menopausal at the time of initial treatment but
will enter menopause within 2 to 3 years. The expert group
proposes the following options for this population:

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Page 11 of 28

Table 13 Recommendations of intensive adjuvant endocrine therapy for HR positive premenopausal breast cancer patients
Stratification

Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

Patients who have completed the initial 5-year
TAM treatment and require extended therapy

(I)

Extended adjuvant TAM for up to
10 years in premenopausal patients (1A)

−

(II)

AI can be used sequentially for
5 years in patients whose menopause
is confirmed (1A)

Patients who have completed the initial 5 years
of OFS + TAM, and the therapy is well tolerated

Sequential AI treatment for menopausal
patients for 5 years (2A)

Premenopausal patients treated with
TAM for 5 years (2B)

Patients who have completed the initial 5 years
of OFS + AI, and the therapy is well tolerated

3–5-year AI treatment for menopausal
patients (2A)

Premenopausal patients treated with
TAM for 5 years (2B) or OFS + AI for
5 years (2B)

TAM, tamoxifen; OFS, ovarian function suppression; AI, aromatase inhibitor.

(I)

For patients with 4 or more positive lymph nodes
or had a histological grade 3 tumor, ovariectomy
followed by AI may be considered.
(II) For G2 patients with 1–3 positive lymph nodes, TAM
can be selected as the initial adjuvant treatment, and
5-year AI can be used instead after menopause.
In the NSABP B-14 study, for ER-positive and lymph
node-negative breast cancer patients, the 5-year TAM
group showed no survival superiority over the 10-year TAM
group. Two large randomized controlled trials [ATLAS (25)
and aTTom] demonstrated that 10-year TAM was superior
to 5-year TAM in lowering breast cancer recurrence
rate. For patients who have already selected TAM for the
initial treatment and have not yet entered menopause after
5 years of TAM treatment, it is recommended to extend the
TAM treatment for another 5 years (up to 10 years) if such
extension is required.
The risk of long-term recurrence persists even after
5 years of OFS combined with oral endocrine drugs. No
study has explored the results of extended endocrine therapy
in these patients, and no randomized controlled trial has
compared the efficacies of the extended endocrine therapy
following 5 years of OFS + endocrine drugs versus 10-year
TAM treatment. Nevertheless, based on the evidence
for the benefit of extended endocrine therapy, extended
endocrine therapy can be recommended for patients who
can tolerate it (Table 13).
Adjuvant radiotherapy after breast cancer surgery
A c c o r d i n g t o B I G 3 - 0 7 / T R O G 0 7 . 0 1 s t u d y, t h e
hypofractionated schedule and the conventional fractionated
schedule were equivalent in terms of local-regional

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

recurrence and DFS, and they had similar side effects of
radiotherapy. The study defined intermediate-high risk
as <50 or ≥50 years with one of the following conditions:
palpable mass, multifocal, sized ≥1.5 cm, intermediatehigh-grade lesions, central necrosis, comedo necrosis, and
<10 mm from the cutting edge. Considering that the longterm efficacy and safety of hypofractionated radiotherapy
regimen in invasive carcinomas have been widely recognized
and from the perspective of saving medical resources
and increasing the affordability, the experts make equal
recommendations for the conventional fractionated
radiotherapy regimen and the hypofractionated radiotherapy
regimen for WBI of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS).
Postoperative WBI can reduce the risk of recurrence
of DCIS and invasive carcinoma by about 50% in DCIS
patients. In addition, retrospective studies have confirmed
that many polygenic models including DCISionRT, Rst,
and DCIS Score can accurately distinguish the risk of
local recurrence after breast-conserving surgery for DCIS,
and patients with a low polygenic risk score have limited
benefits from radiotherapy. However, there is still a lack
of high-level evidence to guide radiotherapy decisions
based on polygenic scores. We encourage DCIS patients
to receive assessment using polygenic risk score models
on top of a variety of clinicopathological prognostic
factors including age, histological grade, and resection
margins. Among estrogen receptor-positive intraductal
carcinoma patients who are receiving endocrine therapy,
postoperative radiotherapy may be omitted in DCIS
patients with low risk of recurrence or in patients with
contraindications to radiotherapy after a thorough
consideration of the risks and benefits of radiotherapy
and adequate communication with the patients or their

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Page 12 of 28

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Table 14 Recommendations of adjuvant radiotherapy for patients after breast-conserving surgery
Stratification

Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

DCIS

WBI ± tumor bed boost (2B)

APBI (2A)

Invasive carcinoma
(negative axillary lymph nodes)

WBI (1A) ± tumor bed boost (1B)

(I) APBI (2A)
(II) Whole-breast one-week hyperfractionated
schedule (2A)
(III) WBI ± tumor bed boost + regional lymph node
radiotherapy (2B)

Positive axillary lymph nodes, with
axillary lymph node dissection

WBI ± tumor bed boost + regional
lymph node radiotherapy (1B)

WBI ± tumor bed boost (2B)

1–2 positive sentinel lymph nodes,
without axillary lymph node dissection

WBI + tumor bed boost (1A)

WBI + tumor bed boost + regional lymph node
radiotherapy (including axilla) (2B)

≥3 positive sentinel lymph nodes,
without axillary lymph node dissection

−

WBI + tumor bed boost + regional lymph node
radiotherapy (including axilla) (2B)

DCIS, ductal carcinoma in situ; WBI, whole breast irradiation; APBI, accelerated partial breast irradiation.

families (Table 14).
The long-term follow-up in clinical studies have
confirmed that postoperative radiotherapy still has the
advantage of higher local control rate over endocrine
therapy alone in elderly patients who are ≥70 years, with
a stage of T1N0M0, and being HR-positive and HER2negative, although it did not affect OS and DFS in these
patients. With the availability of more novel polygenic
prediction models, radiotherapy regimens for patients
with early-stage low-risk breast cancer can be selected in a
more precise manner. For patients meeting the inclusion
criteria in the above study, postoperative radiotherapy
may be avoided or reduced on top of endocrine therapy
after a thorough consideration of the risks and benefits of
radiotherapy and adequate communication with the patients
or their families.
For patients who only require WBI on the affected breast,
the recommended WBI radiotherapy includes: conventional
fractionation: 6 Gy/8 fractions; or, hypofractionation:
40–42.5 Gy/15–16 fractions. While these two schedules
are equally effective and have comparable cosmetic effects
and side effects, the hypofractionated radiotherapy can save
medical resources and lower the medical expenditure. Thus,
the hypofractionated radiotherapy is recommended as the
preferred schedule.
Accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI): patients
may be selected according to the American Society for
Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) recommendations (26).
IMRT or interstitial brachytherapy may be applied for
APBI, with IMRT being the preferred technique for

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

external irradiation. The recommended fractionation
regimens include: 38.5 Gy/10 fractions, twice daily; or,
30 Gy/(5 fractions × 2 weeks). However, the minimum
and most effective doses for APBI need to be further
investigated. APBI-OPAR, the first published head-to-head
comparison of two dose gradients of ABPI, enrolled patients
with either DCIS or invasive breast cancer; during the 4-year
follow-up, the cosmetic effect of the 5.5 or 6.0 Gy/fraction,
qd ×5 treatment modality was significantly better than that
in the RAPID study but inferior to that in the APBI-IMRTFlorence study. However, the prognostic efficacy of this
modality needs to be further explored in long-term followup. We encourage eligible patients to actively participate in
prospective clinical studies exploring the APBI fractionation
modalities in China and abroad.
Regional lymph node radiation: in patients who have
received complete axillary lymph node dissection (basically
defined as axillary lymph node dissection at stations 1 and 2),
the regional lymph node dissection typically includes the
supraclavicular/subclavian areas on the affected side and the
Internal mammary lymph nodes (between the first and the
third intercostal spaces).
According to the FAST-FORWARD study (27), the
hyperfractionated breast radiotherapy (26 Gy in 5 fractions
over 1 week) was non-inferior to the hypofractionated
regimen (40 Gy in 15 fractions over 3 weeks) in terms of
the 5-year risk of ipsilateral intramammary recurrence and
radiotherapy side effects. Since a shortened treatment course
has many benefits including higher efficiency of medical
resources utilization, increased accessibility of radiotherapy,

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Page 13 of 28

Table 15 Recommendations of adjuvant radiotherapy for patients after mastectomy
Stratification

Level I recommendations

After axillary lymph node dissection, patients
meet any of the following conditions: (I) T3–4;
(II) positive axillary lymph nodes

Chest wall radiotherapy + regional lymph node
radiotherapy (1–2A)

−

Positive sentinel lymph nodes, without axillary
lymph node dissection

Chest wall radiotherapy + regional lymph node
radiotherapy (including axilla) (2B)

−

and reduced patient burden, our current guidelines
recommend that the hyperfractionated radiotherapy (26 Gy
in 5 fractions over 1 week) be considered for patients who
meet the enrollment criteria of the FAST-FORWARD
study. The target dose should be carefully assessed and the
organ-threatening dose strictly limited when using a oneweek regimen, with reference to the FAST-FORWARD
study protocol: PTV: D95% >95% of the prescribed dose,
D5% <105% of the prescribed dose, D2% <107% of the
prescribed dose, and maximum dose <110% of the prescribed
dose; ipsilateral lung: V8Gy <15%; heart: V1.5Gy <30% and
V7Gy <5%. Notably, this dosage covers only the whole
breast and needs to be tailored based on individual risk
of recurrence. For patients requiring a tumor bed boost,
additional dose may be delivered according to the FASTFORWARD study protocol.
The indications of postoperative radiotherapy after
breast reconstruction should follow those after mastectomy
for patients in the same stage. The complication rate after
autologous reconstruction is lower than that after prosthetic
reconstruction. For patients undergoing two-step tissue
expander/implant (TE/I), whether the replacement of the
tissue expander by a permanent breast implant should be
done before or after postoperative radiotherapy remain
controversial, depending on the skills and experience of the
multidisciplinary team (Table 15).
In patients receiving combined regional lymph node
radiotherapy, the recommended dose of the postoperative
adjuvant radiotherapy for whole breast/chest wall
irradiation at the affected and for irradiation of regional
lymph node areas remains 50 Gy/25 fractions, and a
tumor bed boost of 10–16 Gy/5–8 fractions is required for
patients after breast-conserving surgery. A single-center
prospective phase III trial in China has confirmed that
postoperative hypofractionated radiotherapy (including
supraclavicular lymph nodes and chest wall) can achieve
similar efficacy as conventional fractionated radiotherapy
in breast cancer patients after mastectomy (28). As more

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

Level II recommendations

evidence has demonstrated the radiobiological equivalence
of hypofractionated regimens to conventional fractionated
regimens, our current guidelines recommend that combined
regional lymph node hypofractionated radiotherapy
regimens, preferably with precision radiotherapy techniques
including IMRT, may be considered under the premise of
strictly limiting the organ-threatening dose and ensuring
dose coverage and dose uniformity in the target area. When
the equivalent uniform dose (EUD) is calculated, tumor
control probability (TCP) and normal tissue complication
probability (NTCP, which is more complicated) should
also be considered. This guideline also encourages patients
to actively participate in prospective clinical studies on the
regional lymph node hypofractionated radiotherapy on top
of precision radiotherapy techniques.
Salvage treatment for advanced breast cancer
Salvage treatment for HER2-positive breast cancer
Trastuzumab-sensitive populations include: (I) trastuzumabnaïve; (II) showing response to neoadjuvant therapy; (II)
having recurrence 1 year after the end of adjuvant therapy;
and (IV) drug withdrawal after effective salvage treatment.
For these patients, trastuzumab-based therapy is preferred.
A reasonable combination treatment protocol should
be selected according to the patient’s HR status and the
previous neoadjuvant/adjuvant therapies.
The CLEOPATRA study (29) confirmed that the
combination of docetaxel with dual-targeted therapy
with pertuzumab and trastuzumab was more effective
than the combination of docetaxel with single-targeted
therapy with trastuzumab in prolonging PFS And OS.
Thus, the combination of docetaxel with dual-targeted
therapy with pertuzumab and trastuzumab has become the
preferred treatment for HER2 positive patients failing to
respond to trastuzumab and taxanes. The CHAT study
confirmed that, for patients who could tolerate dual-drug
chemotherapy, trastuzumab combined with docetaxel

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Page 14 of 28

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Table 16 Recommendations of salvage treatment for HER2-positive breast cancer
Stratification

Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

Level III recommendations

Trastuzumab-sensitive

(I) THP (1A)

(I) H + chemotherapy (2A)
(chemotherapy includes: taxanes,
vinorelbine, and capecitabine)

H + P + other chemotherapy drugs
(2B)

(II) TXH (2A)

(II) Pyrotinib + capecitabine (2A)

Trastuzumab-resistant

(I) Pyrotinib + capecitabine (1A) (I) T-Dxd (1A)

(I) Neratinib + capecitabine (2A)

(II) T-DM1 (1B)

(II) Lapatinib + capecitabine (2B)
(III) TKI combined with other
chemotherapy drugs (2B)
(IV) HP combined with other
chemotherapy drugs (2B)
(V) Margetuximab + chemotherapy
(2B)

TKI-resistant

−

(I) Anti-HER2 antibody-drug
conjugates (ADCs)
(e.g., T-Dxd and T-DM1) (2A)

Other unused anti-HER2-targeted
agents

(II) HP combined with other
chemotherapy drugs (2A)
(III) Another TKI + chemotherapy (2A)
(IV) Rigorously-designed clinical trial
T, taxene; X, capecitabine; H, trastuzumab; P, pertuzumab; TKI, tyrosine kinase inhibitor.

plus capecitabine was more efficient than trastuzumab
combined with docetaxel, especially in patients requiring
maintenance treatment (30). Trastuzumab may also be
combined with capecitabine in patients who failed the
taxane treatment (Table 16).
According to the PHENIX study (31), in patients who
failed the treatment with taxanes and trastuzumab, pyrotinib
combined with capecitabine was more effective than
capecitabine monotherapy in increasing overall response
rate (ORR) and PFS. Similarly, the PHOEBE study (32)
showed that in MBC patients who have previously received
trastuzumab, paclitaxel, and/or anthracycline, pyrotinib
combined with capecitabine achieved better PFS than
lapatinib combined with capecitabine. Therefore, the
experts recommend pyrotinib combined with capecitabine
for the treatment of patients who have failed to respond to
trastuzumab and taxanes.
According to the NALA study (33), neratinib in
combination with capecitabine significantly prolonged PFS
compared with lapatinib in combination with capecitabine
in patients with metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer
who had received ≥2 prior targeted therapies, making it one

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

of the current options after the failure of multiple lines of
anti-HER2 therapy.
The SOPHIA study (34) included patients with advanced
breast cancer who had received at least two prior lines of
anti-HER2-targeted therapy but no more than three total
lines. All subjects had previously received trastuzumab and
pertuzumab, and approximately 90% had received prior
T-DM1 therapy. The results showed that patients receiving
margetuximab and chemotherapy had a median increase of
1.8 months in OS compared to those receiving trastuzumab
and chemotherapy (21.6 vs. 19.8 months). Among the
approximately 85% of patients carrying a CD16A 158F
allele, the median OS was prolonged by 4.3 months in the
margetuximab arm (23.7 vs. 19.4 months).
The results of the HER2CLIMB study (35) showed
that in patients with locally advanced unresectable or
metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer, the tucatinib plus
X regimen demonstrated superior efficacy (a significant
46% reduction in the risk of disease progression or death
and a 34% reduction in the risk of death) compared with
the trastuzumab plus capecitabine (XH) regimen. In this
trial, 47% of patients had brain metastases at study entry.

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

For these patients, tucatinib further improved PFS and
significantly reduced the risk of disease progression or death
by 52%.
According to the DESTINY-Breast03 study (36), T-Dxd
significantly improved PFS and reduced the risk of disease
progression or death by 72% compared to T-DM1 after
trastuzumab treatment failure; thus, T-Dxd has become
a new standard second-line treatment after trastuzumab
failure. Anti-HER2 ADCs have shown notable clinical
benefits in MBC patients, especially in second-line or above
settings. Although T-Dxd is not yet available in China,
patients are encouraged to actively participate in domestic
and international clinical trials of ADCs.
Subsequent targeted therapy after TKI failure still lacks
the support of high-quality clinical trials. According to
real-world data and expert opinions, it is recommended
that the decision-making should be based on the previous
treatments, with currently available options including
T-D M 1 , H + P du a l -ta rg eted thera p y p l u s oth er
chemotherapy, T-Dxd, and switching to another TKI (37).
Anti-HER2 monoclonal antibodies (H) include
trastuzumab, biosimilar medications, and inetetamab, which
have been available in China.
TKIs include pyrotinib, lapatinib, neratinib, and
tucatinib.
Salvage treatment for triple-negative advanced breast cancer
The preferred chemotherapy regimens include single-agent
chemotherapy and combination chemotherapy. Compared
with the single-agent chemotherapy, the combination
chemotherapy usually has a higher objective response rate
and longer DFS. However, combination chemotherapy is
more toxic and has limited survival benefits. Therefore,
combination chemotherapy is only feasible for patients who
need to shrink the tumor or relieve symptoms within a short
period of time. In contrast, single-agent chemotherapy is
preferred for patients in whom drug tolerability and quality
of life are the top concerns.
For recurrent/metastatic breast cancer patients who have
failed prior anthracycline-containing preoperative/adjuvant
therapy, taxane-based regimens are typically preferred, and
both single-agent and combination regimens can be selected
for the first-line treatment. Other optional drugs may
include capecitabine, gemcitabine, vinorelbine, liposomal
doxorubicin, and liposomal paclitaxel.
There is currently no standard chemotherapy regimen
for patients with recurrent/metastatic breast cancer

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

Page 15 of 28

who have failed preoperative/adjuvant treatments with
anthracyclines and taxanes. The optional drugs may include
capecitabine, vinorelbine, gemcitabine, platinum, eribulin,
UTD1, another type of taxane (e.g., albumin paclitaxel), and
liposomal doxorubicin. Either single-agent or combination
regimens can be considered.
Taxanes (anthracyclines) failure is defined as disease
progression during the salvage treatment with taxanes
(anthracyclines) (after at least two cycles) or tumor
recurrence/metastasis within 12 months after completing
the adjuvant therapy. Patients who are feasible for retreatment with taxanes include: (I) showing response
to taxane-based neoadjuvant therapy; (II) experiencing
recurrence one year after the end of taxane-based adjuvant
therapy; and (III) drug withdrawal after effective salvage
treatment with taxanes (Table 17).
In the KEYNOTE-355 study (38), chemotherapy
combined with a PD-1 inhibitor significantly improved
PFS compared with chemotherapy alone in patients whose
tumors expressed PD-L1 and had a combined positive score
(CPS) of ≥10, suggesting the potential role of immune
checkpoint inhibitors in the treatment of TNBC. However,
different studies had different drug combinations, target
populations, and predictors, and immune checkpoint
inhibitors are not currently approved to treat breast cancer
in China. Therefore, the expert group encourages patients
to actively participate in clinical studies but reminds that
caution must be exercised when using these drugs in clinical
settings.
The OlympiAD study (39) showed that, for patients with
HER2-negative advanced breast cancer with BRCA 1/2
germline mutations, olaparib significantly prolonged
PFS (7 vs. 4.2 months, compared with chemotherapy).
Therefore, the expert group generally agrees that patients
with BRCA1/2 germline mutations can receive treatment
with olaparib or actively participate in relevant clinical
trials.
The 304 study (24) showed that for patients with
advanced breast cancer for whom anthracyclines and
taxanes have failed, eribulin was superior to vinorelbine in
prolonging PFS and increasing ORR, with similar incidence
of adverse events. Thus, eribulin has become a new option
after anthracycline and taxane failure in patients with
advanced breast carcinoma.
The BG01-1312L study (40) showed that for patients
with advanced breast cancer for whom anthracyclines and
taxanes have failed, UTD1 combined with capecitabine was
superior to capecitabine alone in prolonging PFS and OS,

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Page 16 of 28

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Table 17 Recommendations of salvage treatment for triple negative breast cancer
Stratification

Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

Level III recommendations

Taxanes-sensitive

(I) Taxane monotherapy

(I) Monotherapy

(I) Olaparib# (2A)

Taxanes failure

•

Albumin paclitaxel (1A)

•

Capecitabine (2A)

(II) Liposomal paclitaxel (2A)

•

Docetaxel (2A)

•

Vinorelbine (2A)

(III) Liposomal doxorubicin (2B)

•

Paclitaxel (2A)

•

Gemcitabine (2A)

(IV) Chemotherapy + PD-1 inhibitors (2B)

(II) Combination therapy

•

Etoposide (2B)

•

TX (1A)

•

GT (1A)

•

Albumin paclitaxel + PD-1 inhibitor
(2A)

•

TP (2A)

•

Taxanes + bevacizumab (2B)

(I) Monotherapy

(II) Combination therapy

(I) Monotherapy

(I) Olaparib# (2A)

•

Eribulin (1A)

•

Albumin paclitaxel* (2A)

(II) Liposomal doxorubicin (2B)

•

Vinorelbine (2A)

•

Sacituzumab govitecan (2A)

(III) Liposomal paclitaxel (2B)

•

Gemcitabine (2A)

•

Etoposide (2B)

(IV) Chemotherapy + PD-1 inhibitors (2B)

•

Capecitabine (2A)

(II) Combination therapy

(II) Combination therapy
•

NP (1A)

•

GP (1A)

•

NX (2A)

•

Utidelone + capecitabine (2A)

•

Capecitabine + bevacizumab (2B)

•

Albumin paclitaxel + other
chemotherapy drugs (2B)

*, consider switching to albumin paclitaxel if docetaxel or paclitaxel fails; #, recommended in the presence of BRCA1/2 mutations. T,
taxene; G, gemcitabine; N, vinorelbine; X, capecitabine; P, platinum.

which offered a new treatment chance after anthracycline
and taxane failure in patients with advanced breast carcinoma.
In the ASCENT study (41), patients with advanced
TNBC who had received prior second- or later-line
chemotherapy were randomized to receive sacituzumab
govitecan-hziy or single-agent chemotherapy (including
capecitabine, eribulin, vinorelbine, or gemcitabine, upon
the investigator’s choice), respectively. It was found that
sacituzumab govitecan-hziy reduced the risk of disease
progression by 59% and the risk of death by 52% in
patients with refractory TNBC that was resistant to multiline treatments. In April 2020, the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) granted accelerated approval to
sacituzumab govitecan for adult patients with metastatic
TNBC. Thus, the new anti-Trop-2 ADC brings additional
treatment options to patients with advanced TNBC.
It is extremely difficult to cure a recurrent/metastatic
breast cancer. A more realistic strategy is to prolong survival

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

via less radical treatments. The optimal first-line treatments
may include endocrine therapy and chemotherapy (or
combined with molecularly-targeted therapy). Rational
maintenance treatment may be considered in patients who
have exhibited good therapeutic response. For patients
who respond well to a given combination chemotherapy
regimen but cannot tolerate the combined therapy due to
severe adverse reactions, use of a single agent in the initial
therapy for maintenance treatment may be considered
to maximize disease control. An ideal maintenance
chemotherapy protocol should be an effective single-agent
therapy (e.g., oral chemotherapy drugs such as capecitabine
and vinorelbine) that is relatively low-toxic and convenient
for long-term use. HR-positive patients can also choose
endocrine therapy for maintenance.
For patients with recurrent/metastatic breast cancer, if
there is no response after three consecutive chemotherapy
regimens or if the patient’s ECOG performance status

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

score is ≥3, chemotherapy is no longer recommended and
gentle endocrine therapy and molecularly-targeted therapy
can be considered. Alternately, only the best supportive
care can be offered; or, the patients may be encouraged to
participate in clinical trials. Here “no response” refers to
that the patient has never obtained any benefit (or even
remission) from a specific chemotherapy regimen. It does
not include cases that remission has been obtained after
chemotherapy but disease progression occurs after drug
discontinuation.
Savage therapy for HR-positive advanced breast cancer
The previous treatment regimen and disease burden must
be considered when selecting a first-line endocrine therapy
for recurrent and metastatic breast cancer. Endocrine
therapy should be continued as possible in patients who
have benefited from the treatment until disease progresses;
however, the tolerance to long-term drug use should also be
assessed. In principle, a combination of endocrine therapy
and chemotherapy is not recommended. For HR-positive/
HER2-positive patients who are not suitable for salvage
chemotherapy, endocrine combined with HER2-targeted
therapy may be considered as the first-line treatment. In the
first-line endocrine therapy for advanced breast cancer, the
third-generation AIs achieved significantly longer PFS and
higher ORR compared with TAM. For postmenopausal,
HR-positive patients who have not received endocrine
therapy or those who have failed adjuvant endocrine therapy
with TAM, the third-generation AIs are recommended
as the first-line endocrine therapy. In the PALOMA-2
study (42), compared with letrozole monotherapy,
letrozole combined with a CDK4/6 inhibitor (palbociclib)
significantly prolonged PFS; notably, about 43% of the
subjects were endocrine therapy-naive, and about 47% had
received adjuvant TAM treatment.
According to the PALOMA-3 study (43), in patients
experiencing PD despite prior endocrine therapy (with AI or
TAM), including patients with PD during adjuvant endocrine
therapy or within 12 months after stopping treatment or
those who experiencing PD during endocrine therapy for
tumor relapse and metastasis, the combination of palbociclib
with fulvestrant significantly prolonged PFS compared with
fulvestrant alone, although the improvement in OS was
not statistically significant; in the subgroup with sensitivity
to previous endocrine therapy, however, the OS was
significantly prolonged by 10 months. Approximately 70%
of patients in the MONARCH2 study (44) experienced PD

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

Page 17 of 28

after AI therapy, and the findings confirmed that abemaciclib
in combination with fulvestrant significantly prolonged PFS
compared with fulvestrant alone. The MONARCHplus
study (45), which included two groups of patients who
failed TAM or AI treatment, showed that abemaciclib in
combination with either non-steroidal AI or fulvestrant
significantly improved PFS and ORR. Accordingly, NMPA
has approved the use of abemaciclib in combination with AI
as the first-line endocrine therapy in postmenopausal BC
patients and also approved the combination of abemaciclib
with fulvestrant for patients experiencing disease progression
after previous endocrine therapy. The DAWNA-1 study (46)
enrolled 361 patients (from 39 centers) with HR-positive/
HER2-negative advanced breast cancer after failure of
endocrine therapy. These subjects were randomized 2:1
to receive dalpiciclib plus fulvestrant or placebo plus
fulvestrant. The investigator-assessed PFS was 8.5 months
longer in the dalpiciclib plus fulvestrant group, along with
a 58% reduction in the risk of disease progression or death.
Therefore, dalpiciclib plus fulvestrant has been approved
for use as a treatment option after AI failure. Clinical
studies have demonstrated the value of CDK4/6 inhibitors
combined with endocrine therapy in treating HR-positive
advanced breast cancer; however, the mechanism of action,
dosage, indications, and adverse effects are not completely
consistent across different CDK 4/6 inhibitors. Thus, CDK
4/6 inhibitors and their combinations need to be selected
rationally according to the included population of clinical
studies and the specific conditions of patients.
In the ACE study (47), for postmenopausal HR-positive/
HER2-negative advanced breast cancer patients who
had previously failed tamoxifen and/or non-steroidal AI
treatment, the combination of HDAC inhibitor chidamide
with exemestane significantly prolonged PFS (7.4 vs.
3.8 months, versus exemestane); also, it was superior to
exemestane in terms of ORR and clinical benefit rate.
Chidamide has been approved in China for the indication
of breast cancer. The expert group recommends that
chidamide combined with AI can be used in advanced breast
cancer patients who have failed on previous endocrine
treatment (Table 18).
AIs can be used in patients who experience recurrence
more than 12 months after end of adjuvant AI therapy. For
patients with recurrence ≤12 months after end of adjuvant
treatment or progression after first-line endocrine therapy
with AI, use of another AI with different mechanism of
action (e.g., switch a non-steroidal AI with a steroidal AI)
may be helpful, which, however, has not been investigated

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Page 18 of 28

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Table 18 Recommendations of salvage endocrine treatment for HR positive breast cancer
Stratification

Level I recommendations

Without endocrine therapy (I) AI + abemaciclib (1A)
(II) AI+ palbociclib (1A)

Level II recommendations

Level III recommendations

(I) AI (1A)

TAM (2B)

(II) Fulvestrant (2A)
(III) Fulvestrant + CDK4/6 inhibitors
(2A)

TAM failure

Non-steroidal AI failure

(I) AI + abemaciclib (1A)

(I) AI (2A)

(II) AI + chidamide (1A)

(II) Fulvestrant (2A)

(III) AI + palbociclib (1B)

(III) Fulvestrant + CDK4/6 inhibitors
(1B)

(I) Fulvestrant + abemaciclib (1A)

(I) Steroid AI + CDK4/6 inhibitor (2A)

(I) Steroidal AI (2B)

(II) Steroidal AI + chidamide (1A)

(II) Fulvestrant (2A)

(II) Fulvestrant + steroidal AI

(III) Fulvestrant + dalpiciclib (2A)

(III) Steroid AI + everolimus (IB)

(III) TAM or toremifene (2B)

(IV) Fulvestrant + palbociclib (1B)
Steroidal AI failure

(I) Fulvestrant + abemaciclib (1A)

(I) Fulvestrant (2A)

(I) Non-steroidal AI (2B)

(II) Fulvestrant + dalpiciclib (2A)

(II) Non-steroid AI + CDK4/6 inhibitor
(2A)

(II) TAM or toremifene (2B)

(III) Fulvestrant + palbociclib (1B)
CKD4/6 inhibitor failure

(IV) Progesterone (2B)

−

(III) Progesterone (2B)

(I) Chidamide + ET (2A)

(I) Progesterone (2B)

(II) Another CDK4/6 inhibitor + ET (2A)

(II) Toremifene (2B)

(III) Participates in rigorously-designed
clinical trial
AI, artificial intelligence; TAM, tamoxifen; ET, endocrine therapy.

in large randomized controlled clinical studies. Drugs
should be reasonably selected based on the patients’
general conditions and the availability of drugs in China.
If the disease progresses despite AI treatment, other drugs
including progesterone (medroxyprogesterone or megestrol),
toremifene, and TAM may also be used in the endocrine
therapy for advanced breast cancer. Although there are no
relevant evidences from large randomized controlled clinical
studies, these drugs may be reasonably selected based on the
patients’ general conditions and the availability of drugs in
China.
Breast cancer bone metastasis
Bone emission computed tomography (ECT) and other
examinations should be performed to identify any possible
bone metastasis in breast cancer patients who suffer
from symptoms such as bone pain or have any of the
following conditions: (I) hypercalcemia, elevated alkaline
phosphatase, and elevated lactate dehydrogenase; (II)
© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

abnormally elevated tumor markers (e.g., CEA and CA153);
and/or (III) suspicious bone metastasis on other imaging
modalities (1). However, abnormal tracer uptake on bone
scan cannot ensure the diagnosis of bone metastases.
ECT is recommended for the routine screening of breast
cancer patients with suspicious bone metastasis symptoms
including bone pain, pathologic fracture, increased alkaline
phosphatase level, and hypercalcemia. It can also be used for
routine examinations in patients with locally advanced breast
cancer (above T3N1M0) and/or recurrent/metastatic breast
cancer. If ECT reveals abnormal tracer uptake, CT using a
bone window setting should be performed. If the original
osteolytic lesion is transformed into bone calcification and
the newly added lesions also show bone calcification, the
treatment should be evaluated as effective. If the newly
added lesions with increased tracer uptake exhibit the
appearance of osteolytic lesions, it can be evaluated as “PD”.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is more sensitive but
less specific than CT. MRI has definite advantages over CT
in identifying neurovascular compression, vertebral body

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Page 19 of 28

Table 19 Recommendations of bone modifying agents for breast cancer
Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

Level III recommendations

Zoledronic acid (1A); denosumab (1A);
ibandronic acid (2A)

Loading-dose ibandronic acid (2A); pamidronate
disodium (1B)

Clodronate disodium (2B)

involvement, and spinal stability. It is an important tool for
deciding the appropriateness of surgery and radiotherapy for
bone metastases. However, abnormal MRI findings alone is
not sufficient to make a diagnosis of bone metastasis, which
should be based on other examinations/tests. Pathological
examination of bone biopsy samples can help diagnose
breast cancer bone metastases. For clinically suspicious bone
metastases, especially in patients with a single bone lesion,
bone biopsy should be performed to confirm the diagnosis.
PET-CT is highly sensitive and specific in detecting the
abnormal signals of breast cancer bone metastasis. However,
the value of PET/CT in diagnosing bone metastasis still
requires further investigations. Currently, it is not routinely
recommended in clinical settings.
Clinically, skeletal-related events (SREs) include
pathological fractures (vertebral fractures, non-vertebral
fractures, and compression or deformation of the vertebral
body), spinal cord compression, bone radiotherapy (for bone
pain or for the prevention/treatment of pathological fractures
or spinal cord compression), and bone surgery. SREs such
as bone pain and bone injury are common complications of
breast cancer bone metastasis and can seriously undermine
quality of life. Among them, spinal cord compression is
a cancer-related emergency requiring multidisciplinary
consultations (including the inputs of orthopedic experts).
Corticosteroids and dehydration treatment should be
applied to promptly relieve the compression and reduce the
limb dysfunction and even paraplegia caused by spinal cord
compression (see Expert Consensus on Breast Cancer Bone
Metastasis) (48) (Table 19).
The main goals of treatment for breast cancer bone
metastases are to prevent and treat bone-related events,
relieve pain, restore function, improve quality of life,
control tumor progression, and prolong survival. The
treatment of breast cancer bone metastasis should be based
on systemic therapies including chemotherapy, endocrine
therapy, molecularly targeted therapy, and immunotherapy.
Factors affecting the choice of systemic treatment include:
(I) the HR status and HER2 status; (II) age and menstrual
status; and (III) whether the disease progresses slowly.
Breast cancer bone metastasis generally is not directly lifethreatening. Endocrine therapy is preferred in patients
© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

with HR-positive tumors that progress slowly and show
no primary endocrine resistance. For patients with ERand PR-negative tumors, short postoperative DFI, rapid
disease progression, or HR-positive tumors and with
primary endocrine resistance, single-agent chemotherapy
is preferred in patients with a single bone metastasis or
asymptomatic visceral metastasis, whereas combination
chemotherapy should only be considered for patients with
bone metastases requiring rapid symptom control or those
with symptomatic visceral metastases. For patients with
HER2-positive bone metastases, the treatment principle is
the same as that for patients with metastases to other sites—
combination with an HER2-targeted therapy is preferred.
The purposes of surgical treatment are to improve the
patients’ quality of life by resolving nerve compression,
alleviating pain, and restoring limb functions. Patients
with bone metastasis must be closely followed up. A proper
decision-making on the surgery on the long bones with
potentially pathological fractures is critically important to
improve the patients’ quality of life if an effective surgical
treatment is performed before fracture and/or before
spinal cord compression. Surgical procedures for breast
cancer bone metastases include simple internal fixation,
debridement plus internal fixation, lesion resection plus
artificial joint replacement, decompression after spinal
cord compression, and reconstruction for increasing spinal
stability. Fixation can be selectively applied for pathological
fracture or spinal cord compression, especially in breast
cancer bone metastasis patients with an expected survival
time of >3 months. Prophylactic fixation can be selectively
applied in breast cancer bone metastasis patients meeting
one or more of the following criteria: femoral metastasis
sized >2.5 cm; metastasis to the neck of femur bone; bone
cortical destruction >50%% and/or with an expected
survival time of >3 months. After the bone metastases
have been with multidisciplinary treatments, orthopedists
should be timely consulted to determine the timing of
surgery. Mirels classification is useful for assessing the risk
of pathological fracture of long bones and determining the
surgical indications.
The main purposes of radiotherapy in patients with breast
cancer bone metastasis is to relieve bone pain and reduce

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Page 20 of 28

the risk of pathological fractures. Its combinations with
bone-modifying agents or molecularly-targeted antitumor
agents can effectively improve the treatment effectiveness.
Radiotherapy includes external-beam irradiation and
radionuclide therapy. External-beam irradiation is a
common effective method during the palliative therapy for
bone metastases. The main indications of external-beam
irradiation include: symptomatic bone metastases, for which
the treatment is to alleviate pain and restore functions;
and, selectively used for the prophylactic radiotherapy of
metastasis to weight-bearing bones (e.g., spine and femur);
and palliative radiotherapy after simple internal fixation,
decompression, and reconstruction of spinal stability. The
doses of external-beam irradiation include 40 Gy/20 fractions,
20 Gy/5 fractions, and 8 Gy/fraction. These doses have
comparable efficacy in acute analgesia, and pain relief can be
achieved for 23–35 weeks, although the dose of 8 Gy/session
has a relatively high re-treatment rate. Clinically, appropriate
radiotherapy fractionation should be selected according to
the expected survival time and the tolerance dose of normal
tissues related to the metastases. Single 8 Gy fraction is
recommended for palliative radiotherapy in patients with
limited life expectancy. Effective external-beam irradiation
can achieve symptom relief in 50–80% of bone metastasis
patients and achieve complete response in approximately 1/3
of patients; notably, such effect can last a long period of time.
Stereotactic radiotherapy (SRT) has been increasingly used
in bone metastases, with the advantage of providing a steep
dose falloff around the target, which ensures the sparing
of the normal tissue and/or the critical structures near the
target. With the main indication being spinal metastatic
lesions, SRT is more advantageous for patients with
recurrent symptoms that require retreatment. Radionuclide
therapy is useful in easing diffuse pain due to bone metastasis;
however, in some patients, radionuclide therapy may result
in high incidence of bone marrow suppression, which can
only be restored slowly (about 12 weeks) and thus affect the
implementation of chemotherapy. Therefore, the clinical use
of radionuclide therapy should only be performed in carefully
selected cases at the right time.
Breast cancer brain metastasis
Brain metastasis includes parenchymal and meningeal
metastases. The clinical manifestations of brain parenchymal
metastasis mainly include increased intracranial pressure and
neurological dysfunction. The main symptoms and signs
of increased intracranial pressure are headache, vomiting,

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

and optic disc edema, which may be accompanied by
increased blood pressure, visual disturbances, disturbances
of consciousness, and incontinence. Due to the different
locations of brain metastases, different symptoms and signs
such as mental symptoms, epileptic seizures, aphasia, and
visual field damage may occur.
The risk of brain metastasis is rising in patient with
advanced breast cancer, mainly due to the following two
reasons: (I) the availability of more effective systemic
treatment of breast cancer has prolonged the survival of
patients; and (II) the application of brain MRI has enabled
the detection of more patients with asymptomatic brain
metastases. The incidence of brain metastasis differs in
patients with different types of breast cancer. Generally,
the risk of brain metastasis is relatively high in patients
with TNBC or HER2 positive breast cancer, suggesting
the importance of monitoring the occurrence of brain
metastasis in these patients. In addition, studies have shown
that high histological grade High proliferative activity of
the primary tumor, young age, high tumor burden, and
BRCA gene mutations are also high-risk factors for brain
metastasis. The most common site of brain metastases is the
cerebrum. Less often, cancer spreads to the cerebellum and
brain stem.
Meningeal metastasis is often associated with meningeal
irritation, which is manifested as headache, vomiting,
stiff neck, cognitive impairment, confusion, and epileptic
seizures. It may be accompanied by cranial nerve damage
and increased intracranial pressure. If the tumor also
spreads along spinal membrane, spinal cord and spinal nerve
root stimulation can occur, which is manifested as radicular
pain and segmental sensory disturbance.
There are many ways to diagnose brain metastases, but
with different roles. Contrast-enhanced MRI of the head
is more sensitive for small lesions, edema, and meningeal
metastases than contrast-enhanced CT and should be used
as the preferred imaging method for the diagnosis of brain
metastases. Contrast-enhanced CT can be performed in
patients with contraindications for cranial MRI. PET/
CT can reflect the difference in metabolic status between
tumors and normal tissues, which is helpful for tumor
diagnosis. However, it is not sensitive for small metastases
in the brain. Thus, the clinical diagnosis of small metastases
should also be based on the findings of contrast-enhanced
MRI or contrast-enhanced CT of the head. Patients
with central nerve metastasis-associated symptoms but
without intracranial space-occupying lesions on MRI/CT
should undergo lumbar puncture, which not only allows

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

the measurement of cerebrospinal fluid pressure (CSFP)
but also enables the routine, biochemical, and cytological
examinations of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). However,
CSF examination in patients with intracranial hypertension
may increase the risk of brain herniation.
The treatment of brain metastases from breast cancer
should follow a multidisciplinary treatment model, and
the aim of treatment is to metastatic lesions, improve
patient symptoms, improve quality of life, and maximize
the survival time of patients. The treatments of breast
cancer brain metastasis include surgery, radiotherapy,
chemotherapy, and symptomatic/supportive treatment. The
general treatment principle is: surgery and/or radiotherapy
for brain metastases is preferred after comprehensive
whole body assessment, and meanwhile a rational systemic
treatment protocol can also be considered. Radiotherapy
mainly includes whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) and
SRT. For HER2-positive asymptomatic patients with
limited number of brain metastases, systemic therapy can
also be given first.
For patients with recurrence after local treatment of
brain metastases, re-operation or SRT may be considered if
there is no history of intracranial radiotherapy, the general
condition is good, and the extracranial lesions are well
controlled. WBRT (SRT with hippocampal protection) may
also be considered, along with the use of memantine. If the
size of the metastasis exceeds the indications of SRT and
is not suitable for re-operation, WBRT can be considered.
For patients experience relapse after WBRT, SRT can be
considered. If relapse occurs after SRT, SRT or WBRT can
be repeated. In short, the treatment strategy for recurrence
after local treatment of brain metastases should consider
the patient’s physical condition, the control of extracranial
lesions, the patient’s quality of life, and the possible benefit
from treatment.
Many studies have confirmed that less than 10% of
patients presented with brain metastases within 5 mm
of the hippocampus and no patient presented with a
metastasis in the hippocampus itself. Among patients who
had achieved the same degree of disease control in the
RTOG 0933 study, WBRT with hippocampal avoidance
reduced cognitive function decline by 30% compared with
traditional WBRT. In the RTOG 0614 study, WBRT
combined with memantine reduced cognitive function
decline by 22%. In the NRG-CCG01 study, WBRT with
hippocampal avoidance decreased cognitive function decline
by 58% compared with conventional WBRT. Therefore,
WBRT with hippocampal avoidance, combined with

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

Page 21 of 28

memantine if appropriate, is recommended for patients with
good systemic condition, satisfactory control of extracranial
lesions, and a distance of not less than 1cm between the
lesion and the hippocampus, because such a protocol has
high efficiency and low toxicity.
While there is no standard treatment for meningeal
metastases, radiotherapy, intrathecal injection therapy,
systemic therapy, and supportive therapy are all possible
options based on the prognostic prediction and after
multidisciplinary consultations. WBRT can be used for
patients with extensive nodular lesions or symptomatic
linear meningeal metastases, whereas focal radiotherapy
is commonly indicated the treatment of localized,
symptomatic meningeal metastases. Once cancer cells are
detected in cerebrospinal fluid, intrathecal injection therapy
can be considered, with attention to adverse effects.
Generally, the effectiveness of medications is far from
satisfactory in treating breast cancer brain metastasis. Studies
have shown that chemotherapy drugs including capecitabine,
topotecan, and temozolomide may achieve certain responses
in patients with brain metastases. In a phase II clinical study,
lapatinib combined with capecitabine showed preliminary
anti-tumour activity on intracranial and extracranial lesions.
The median OS reached 17 months in patients treated with
lapatinib combined with capecitabine followed by WBRT,
and WBRT after drug treatment did not affect the overall
efficacy. The HER2CLIMB study showed that tucatinib
combined with trastuzumab and capecitabine significantly
improved overall survival in patients with brain metastases
compared to trastuzumab combined with capecitabine only.
Other anti-HER2 small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors
(e.g., neratinib) have also shown certain activities against
brain metastases. The PERMEATE study (49) investigated
the efficacy and safety of pyrotinib in combination with
capecitabine in the treatment of HER2-positive breast
cancer brain metastases; it was found that the ORR of CNS
was up to 74.6% in patients with brain metastases without
local radiotherapy and was 42.1% in patients with brain
metastases that progressed again after local radiotherapy,
providing new evidence for the use of pyrotinib in patients
with brain metastases.
Symptomatic and supportive treatment is one of the
main treatments for breast cancer brain metastases as it
can improve the quality of life of patients and help the
implementation of radiotherapy and drug treatment.
For patients with intracranial hypertension, mannitol,
glucocorticoids (e.g., dexamethasone), diuretics, and other
drugs should be routinely used to alleviate the symptoms

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Page 22 of 28

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

Table 20 Treatment of breast cancer brain metastases
Stratification

Level I recommendations

Level II recommendations

For patients presenting
with a limited number of
brain metastases

(I) Well-controlled extracranial disease,
KPS ≥60 points

(I) SRT may be considered for lesions sized
≤3.5 cm (1B)

(i)

Surgical resection (1A); postoperative SRT to the
resection cavity

(II) SRT may be considered for inoperable lesions
(1B)

(ii) Direct SRT for patients who do not need surgery
or with biopsy-confirmed metastases

(III) Anti-HER2 therapy can be considered firstly in
HER2-positive patients with controllable local
symptoms (2A)

(II) Poorly-controlled extracranial disease, with low
KPS score
(i)

(IV) WBRT (with hippocampal avoidance)

Whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) (2A)

(ii) Supportive care (2A)
For patients with diffuse
brain metastases

WBRT (with hippocampal avoidance) (1A)

Anti-HER2 therapy can be considered firstly in HER2positive patients with controllable local symptoms
(2A)

Meningeal metastasis

Radiotherapy (2A)

Intrathecal injection (2B)

SRT, stereotactic radiotherapy; WBRT, Whole-brain radiotherapy.

of cerebral edema. For patients with intractable brain
edema after radiotherapy, bevacizumab may be given
to attenuate brain edema. It is usually administered at
7.5 mg/kg once every 2 weeks for a median of 4 cycles.
Patients with epilepsy should be treated with antiepileptic
drugs (Table 20).
Management of breast cancer patients during
pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic posed huge challenge to
the standardized diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer.
In the context of COVID-19, medical professionals have to
adjust the diagnosis and treatment plans based on research
evidence and expert experience. With the normalization of
COVID-19 prevention and control worldwide, the expert
group made the following recommendations for breast
cancer treatment based on the original strategies and realworld data (50).
Patient manage during the preoperative neoadjuvant
treatment
During the preoperative neoadjuvant therapy for HER2positive patients, combination with albumin paclitaxel may
be considered on top of trastuzumab plus patuximab. For
TNBC, chemotherapy (e.g., albumin paclitaxel) may be

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

applied alone or in combination with weekly carboplatin,
during which the treatment response should be closely
observed, and the medications should be timely adjusted
according to the blood cell amounts
Patient manage during the postoperative adjuvant treatment
The indications for adjuvant chemotherapy should be strictly
followed, and unnecessary chemotherapy should be avoided.
For patients who need chemotherapy, carefully weigh the pros
and cons and try to choose a chemotherapy regimen with low
risk of granulocytopenia. Strictly calculate the chemotherapy
dose and never exceed the maximum recommended dose.
Prophylactic WBC-raising measures should be strictly
implemented during chemotherapy, for which long-acting
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor is recommended.
In terms of adjuvant endocrine therapy for HR-positive
patients, oral AIs are preferred for postmenopausal women,
oral tamoxifen is the treatment of choice for low-risk
premenopausal patients, and a once-every-3-month longacting agent may be used in high-risk patients who need
ovarian function suppression.
Management of recurrent/metastatic breast cancer
For HR-positive patients experiencing recurrence/
metastasis, endocrine therapy is preferred as it helps reduce

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

the risk of infection. Endocrine therapy combined with
targeted drugs can improve the efficacy, and therefore such
combinations can be considered if conditions allow. For
safety considerations, however, the use of such combinations
must be strictly indicated. Use drugs with low pulmonary
toxicity whenever possible.
For patients with HER2-positive recurrent/metastatic
breast cancer, taxanes combined with trastuzumab is the
preferred first-line treatment and may be continued if a
clinical response is achieved. When second- or later-line
therapies are required for patients with HER2-positive
advanced breast cancer, use orally-administered targeted
drugs whenever possible, which can be administered alone
or in combination with oral chemotherapy drugs.
For patients with advanced TNBC, single-agent
chemotherapy can be used, which is more convenient
for safety management and regimen adjustment. Oral
chemotherapy drugs such as capecitabine and vinorelbine
can also be considered. In patients who cannot continue
to receive infusion chemotherapy, switching to oral
chemotherapy may be feasible.
Patient management in special periods
Whole-process case management is particularly important
in the context of COVID-19 pandemic or during other
major public health emergencies. The general principle is
to minimize the impact of COVID-19 on tumor treatment,
protect tumor patients from virus infection, and maximize
the continuity of anti-tumor therapy.
COVID-19 vaccination in patients with breast
cancer
Strong evidence shows COVID-19 vaccination is one of the
most effective means in preventing SARS-CoV-2 infection,
alleviate the symptoms of COVID-19, and lower the casefatality rate. It is a key measure to establish herd immunity.
However, while breast cancer patients are also part of the
“herb”, controversies remain no direct evidence on whether
breast cancer patients can receive COVID-19 vaccination
and on the timing of vaccination. Surveys in China and
abroad have shown that the vast majority of breast cancer
patients are willing to be vaccinated against COVID-19. By
referring to academic articles on COVID-19 and the safety
data of other vaccines, the CSCO BC expert group reached
a consensus on COVID-19 vaccination after consultations
and voting (51). The main recommendations are as follows.

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

Page 23 of 28

Necessity for COVID-19 vaccination among breast cancer
patients
The vast majority of breast cancer patients do not have
immunity against SARS-CoV-2; even worse, they may
be susceptible to COVID-19 due to the compromised
immune status. After careful consideration of the safety and
effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccination, most of the experts
believe that when condition allows, breast cancer patients
should timely receive COVID-19 vaccine.
COVID-19 vaccination in patients with breast cancer
Unvaccinated patients with pathologically confirmed breast
cancer should undergo surgery first, followed by selective
vaccination according to the recovery status; if only the
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine has been administered, it
is recommended that the patient receive the surgery 1 week
after the first dose or 1 week before the second dose. The
interval between surgery and vaccination should be more
than 1 week. In addition, nearly half of the experts believe
that the decision to vaccinate is not associated with the
surgical procedure; rather, more attention should be paid on
the physical recovery after surgery.
Timing of COVID-19 vaccination in patients with
early-stage breast cancer
COVID-19 vaccination should be suspended in patients who
are receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy or neoadjuvant
chemotherapy plus targeted therapies; for patients receiving
neoadjuvant endocrine therapy, COVID-19 vaccination
may be initiated after careful assessment.
It is recommended to suspend COVID-19 vaccination in
breast cancer patients undergoing adjuvant chemotherapy,
and the vaccination may be initiated one month after
completion of adjuvant chemotherapy. For breast cancer
patients who have already received their first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine, the vaccination can be completed as
planned; however, concurrent chemotherapy should be
avoided.
COVID-19 vaccination after assessment is recommended
for patients receiving postoperative adjuvant targeted
therapy alone or combined with adjuvant endocrine
therapy. COVID-19 vaccination is recommended for
patients receiving adjuvant endocrine therapy. COVID-19
vaccination is not recommended for breast cancer patients
receiving postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy.

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Page 24 of 28

Timing of COVID-19 vaccination among patients with
advanced breast cancer
The physical status and immune function of patients with
recurrent/metastatic breast cancer are quite different
from those in the early-stage patients, and the decision to
vaccinate or not should be based on criteria different from
those for early-stage breast cancer patients.
COVID-19 vaccination may be considered during oral
capecitabine treatment after careful assessment.
COVID-19 vaccination is not recommended for patients
who are orally administered with pyrotinib, CDK4/6
inhibitors, or chidamide.
COVID-19 vaccination is also not recommended for
patients using PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors.
Timing of COVID-19 vaccination for patients
participating in clinical trials
For patients participating in a clinical trial, it is recommended
that decision on COVID-19 vaccination should be made on
the basis of the specific protocols of clinical trials and the
stages of the research. If a patient has already received the
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine before entering the subject
screening period, he or she can complete the vaccination as
planned and then the suitability or eligibility for the study
will be re-considered. If the patient has already entered the
subject screening period, it is recommended to suspend
COVID-19 vaccination. COVID-19 vaccination should
be avoided as much as possible during the initial phase of a
clinical trial, so as to avoid any impact on the interpretation
of study results. Patients achieving stable disease after
treatment and entering the maintenance phase of the study
or the follow-up period may receive the COVID-19 vaccine.
Artificial intelligence (AI)-assisted
decision-making on diagnosis and treatment
AI represents a new direction in the era of precision
medicine. Big data, deep learning, advances in computing
technology, and new healthcare model have offered
opportunities for the development of AI in medicine. AI has
been applied in medical imaging, pathology, and decision
support systems.
Intelligent imaging helps tumor diagnosis and response
evaluation
Intelligent imaging technologies have played certain roles
© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

in lesion diagnosis, response evaluation, and even molecular
type prediction. When applied to distinguish benign and
malignant lesions based on plain and enhanced images, the
intelligent imaging was only inferior to senior radiologists
with 20 years of experience. It was also found that the threedimensional (3D) imaging information integrating clinical
information and dynamically enhanced imaging information
can be used as a biomarker to identify molecular subtypes
of breast cancer, especially when applied for the prediction
of TNBC. Al-assisted diagnosis can help doctors diagnose
diseases more quickly and accurately, thus improving the
efficiency and accuracy of diagnoses.
AI-based pathology accelerates the qualitative and
quantitative identification of tumors
AI-based pathology has been applied in a variety of tumors
(e.g., breast cancer), mainly for cytological screening,
differentiation of malignant from benign lesions,
morphological quantitative analysis, and histological
classification. It was found that the HER2 scoring results
for breast cancer specimens were highly agreed between
an AI-based pathology system and human pathologists.
In terms of molecular pathology, AI-based analysis of the
massive genetic information has become an indispensable
element for the development of precision medicine. AIbased pathology reduces the workload of pathologists;
more importantly, it makes up for the shortcomings of
the subjective analysis performed by human pathologists,
improves the qualitative and quantitative identification of
tumors, increases the accuracy of pathological diagnoses,
and offers patients with personalized treatment opinions
and improved cancer prognosis prediction. Thus, it
promotes the development of precision pathology.
Intelligent decision-making enriches the clinical
decision-making models
R&D of intelligent decision-making systems is to integrate
the learning and analysis capabilities of AI tools and the
experience of human experts, thus optimizing decisionmaking process. The CSCO BC collaboration team
compared the decision-making performance between an
AI system and professional doctors in 2,000 cases (52) and
found that the IBM-system Watson for Oncology (WFO)
had good feasibility and effectiveness in decision-making
for breast cancer treatment. It helped clinicians save
time and effort, and its auxiliary applications can further
Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

Translational Breast Cancer Research, 2022

improve the standardization of decision-making by human
doctors.
Meanwhile, intelligent decision-making systems with
independent intellectual property rights have also emerged
in China. The phase III clinical study of breast cancer
intelligent decision-making based on CSCO BC big data
and CSCO BC guidelines suggested that the intelligent
decision-making system based on CSCO guidelines
on breast cancer diagnosis and treatment had good
performance in decision-making for different types of breast
cancer at different stages. In 2019, the CSCO AI system (53)
was officially released, and its nationwide application has
dramatically promoted the development of intelligent
decision-making systems in China. As an important medium
for disseminating CSCO BC guidelines and promoting
standardized diagnosis and treatment, CSCO AI has
integrated five key functions including intelligent decisionmaking, evidence support, toxicity alert, cost estimation,
and patient follow-up. In 2021, based on the original
functions, CSCO AI adds new functions including patient
toxicity management, clinical study enrollment reminders,
and bone metastasis diagnosis and treatment reminders,
thus promoting the clinical application of the intelligent
system.
We will also regularly collect clinical information and user
feedback to further optimize the CSCO AI system, establish
and improve a medical ecosystem comprised of intelligent
decision-making, toxicity alert, disease management, and
resource sharing, integrate case management systems, and
provide assistance to the full-course management of Chinese
breast cancer patients.
AI represents a future. Intelligent systems can not only
help clinicians save time and energy but also will further
improve the precise diagnosis and treatment of tumors.
Therefore, the expert group encourages the implementation
of AI-related clinical research and the R&D of AI systems
with independent intellectual property rights in China.
Acknowledgements
CSCO BC guideline working groups: Zefei Jiang, Erwei
Song, Cuizhi Geng, Yueyin Pan, Xiaojia Wang, Haibo
Wang, Shuseng Wang, Xiang Wang, Jiong Wu, Yongmei
Yin, Qingyuan Zhang, Junwen Bai, Jiayi Chen, Qianjun
Chen, Wenyan Chen, Xiaoyuan Chen, Zhanhong Chen,
Zhimin Fan, Peifen Fu, Rui Ge, Baoliang Guo, Chunfang
Hao, Yingjian He, Feng Jin, Man Li, Nanlin Li, Xiaomei Li,
Hongyuan Li, Xu Liang, Ning Liao, Jian Liu, Qiang Liu,

© Translational Breast Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

Page 25 of 28

Shu Liu, Yi Liu, Yueping Liu, Yunjiang Liu, Zhenzhen Liu,
Jie Ma, Xueli Mo, Jianyun Nie, Quchang Ouyang, Wenxing
Qin, Jing Shi, Chuangui Song, Gang Sun, Tao Sun, Kun
Wang, Mopei Wang, Shu Wang, Tao Wang, Xin Wang,
Biyun Wang, Jiandong Wang, Yongsheng Wang, Ling Xu,
Min Yan, Ying Yan, Hua Yang, Junlan Yang, Peng Yuan,
Xuan Zeng, Fang Zhang, Jian Zhang, Jun Zhang, Haiqing
Zhang, Jianguo Zhang, Shaohua Zhang, Jianbin Li.
Funding: None.
Footnote
Conflicts of Interest: The authors have completed the
ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at https://tbcr.
amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/tbcr-22-21/coif).
ZJ serves as the Editor-in-Chief of Translational Breast
Cancer Research. JL serves as an unpaid Managing Editor
of Translational Breast Cancer Research. ES, XW, YY, JC,
SW and YL serve as unpaid editorial board members of
Translational Breast Cancer Research from March 2022 to
February 2024. CH, KW, JN serve as unpaid editorial board
members of Translational Breast Cancer Research from May
2021 to April 2023. The authors have no other conflicts of
interest to declare.
Ethical Statement: The authors are accountable for all
aspects of the work in ensuring that questions related
to the accuracy or integrity of any part of the work are
appropriately investigated and resolved.
Open Access Statement: This is an Open Access article
distributed in accordance with the Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 4.0 International
License (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), which permits the noncommercial replication and distribution of the article with
the strict proviso that no changes or edits are made and the
original work is properly cited (including links to both the
formal publication through the relevant DOI and the license).
See: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/.
References
1.

Gianni L, Pienkowski T, Im YH, et al. 5-year analysis
of neoadjuvant pertuzumab and trastuzumab in patients
with locally advanced, inflammatory, or early-stage
HER2-positive breast cancer (NeoSphere): a multicentre,
open-label, phase 2 randomised trial. Lancet Oncol
2016;17:791-800.

Transl Breast Cancer Res 2022;3:13 | https://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tbcr-22-21

