POSITION PAPER

Indian Council of Medical Research consensus
document for the management of buccal mucosa
cancer
Goura Kishor Rath,
Purvish M Parikh1,
Shelley Hukku2,
Balakrishnan Rajan3,
Sandeep Kumar4,
Hemant Malhotra5,
Seenu Vuthaluru6,
Daya Nand Sharma,
Amish Vora7,
Deepak Kumar Shukla8,
Tanvir Kaur8,
Ajeet Kumar Gandhi

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
•
•

•

Department of Radiation Oncology,
All India Institute of Medical Sciences,
New Delhi, 1Department of Medical
Oncology, Precision Medicine and
Clinical Research, Asian Institute of
Oncology, Somaiya Hospital, Mumbai,
2
Department of Radiation Oncology
BLK Super Speciality Hospital, New
Delhi, 3Department of Radiation
Oncology, Regional Cancer Centre,
Trivandrum, Kerala, 4Department of
Surgery, All India Institute of Medical
Sciences, Bhopal, 5Division of Medical
Oncology, Department of Medicine,
RK Birla Cancer Center, SMS Medical
College Hospital, Jaipur, 6Department
of Surgery, All India Institute of Medical
Sciences, New Delhi, 7Department
of Medical Oncology, Max Super
Speciality Hospital, Saket, New Delhi,
8
Indian Council of Medical Research,
New Delhi, India

•

•
•

The document is based on consensus among the experts and best available
evidence pertaining to Indian population and is meant for practice in India.
Evaluation of a patient with newly diagnosed buccal mucosa cancer should
include essential tests: Biopsy of the primary lesion, complete blood counts,
renal function tests and liver function tests, chest X-ray, dental evaluation, and
ultrasonogram (USG) of the neck in patients with no clinically enlarged neck
nodes. Computed tomography (CT) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)/positron
emission tomography (PET)-CT are not recommended for all patients.
For early stage disease (I/II), single modality treatment with surgery (with or
without postoperative radiotherapy (PORT) or radiotherapy (RT) (brachytherapy
or external beam radiotherapy [EBRT] or in combination) is recommended.
For locally advanced Stage (III–IV A), surgery followed by RT with or without
chemotherapy, concurrent chemo-RT, altered fractionation RT schedules,
induction chemotherapy, followed by surgery with or without RT are valid
treatment options.
Stage IV B/metastatic diseases are treated with intent of palliation with
chemotherapy and/or RT along with best supportive care.
Clinical examination including history and physical examination is done at each
follow-up visit and no routine radiological investigation is recommended.

INCIDENCE

Carcinoma of the buccal mucosa (BMC) is the commonest cancer of the oral
cavity in India. As per population based cancer registry data[1] of the National
Cancer Registry Program, of the Indian Council of Medical Research, the males
of Ahmedabad urban showed highest age adjusted rate (AAR) for mouth cancer
(17.1) followed by Bhopal (12.5). For females however, Kamrup urban district
(7.6) and East Khasi Hills of Meghalya (7.3) showed the highest AAR, followed
by Bangalore (6.2). In the hospital-based cancer registry[2] report, cancer of the
Address for correspondence:
oral cavity is also ranked as the leading site in Mumbai in males and was within the
Prof. Goura Kishor Rath, MD,
first five leading sites in all registries in males. In the developed countries, BMC
Professor, Radiation Oncology,
Chief, DRBRAIRCH, Head, NCI, All
is relatively uncommon when compared to the Indian subcontinent.[3] As per the
India Institute of Medical Sciences,
recent GLOBOCAN 2012, 77,000 new cases of oral cavity cancers are diagnosed
New Delhi - 110029, India
every year in India and 52,000 die of this disease.[4] The high incidence of BMC
Tel: 011-26594673; Fax: 011-26589821
in our country is attributable to the extensive use of tobacco in various forms and
E-mail: gkrath2006@gmail.com
the locally advanced cancers account for about 70% of
Access this article online
the cases at the time of presentation.
Quick Response Code:

Website:
www.ijmpo.org

DOI:
10.4103/0971-5851.138953

136

PURPOSE
Several international consensus guidelines are available
for the management of oral cavity cancers, but none of
Indian Journal of Medical and Paediatric Oncology | Apr-Jun 2014 | Vol 35 | Issue 2

Rath, et al.: ICMR consensus on management of buccal mucosa cancer

them addresses BMC in particular. Therefore, formulating
reliable guidelines based on western data for Indian
patients is questionable given the fact that buccal mucosa
tumors are quite rare in the developed countries. There
is obviously an urgent need to formulate consensus
statement for the management of BMC based on Indian
data[5-9] and experience which would not only incorporate
the evidence available but would also be feasible to be
practiced in the hospitals of India. Oral cancer in India
is different compared to the western countries. Here, it
involves the gingivo buccal sulcus (the site where the
tobacco quid is commonly kept by the patient). The
nature of spread, biological behavior and the treatment is
also different. Based on the available evidence and expert
consensus opinion, we present the proposed national
consensus document for management of BMC.
DIAGNOSIS
Evaluation of a patient presenting with a lesion in the buccal
mucosa should be aimed at pathological confirmation and
staging of the disease. Essential test, which needs to be
done in all patients include: Biopsy of the primary lesion,
complete blood counts, renal function tests and liver
function tests, chest X-ray, USG of the neck in patients with
no clinically enlarged neck nodes, dental evaluation and CT
scan except in patients with early lesions and clinically USG
proven no lymphadenopathy in the neck. CT scan/MRI
is advisable if mandible is involved clinically and orthopantomogram is negative, lesion is involving the retromolar
trigone, there is suspected involvement of pterygoids or
pterygoid plate, lesion is extending into the upper gingivo
buccal sulcus and there is suspicious involvement of paranasal sinuses or if there is need to assess the operability of
cervical lymph nodes. Evaluation under anesthesia should
be done in cases where clinical examination is not feasible.
2-[18F] ﬂuoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose PET (PET-CT) is not
routinely recommended.
Extensive investigations are not recommended in cases with
(intent of treatment in these cases is primarily palliation) hard
and fixed N3 nodes, extensive skin involvement with or without
cutaneous nodules, severe trismus not due to oral submucous
fibrosis or clinical involvement of infra temporal fossa.
Staging should be done with American Joint Committee
on Cancer staging manual[10] (7th edition, 2009) and patients
should be assigned a TNM and a group stage (which would
remain unchanged throughout).
TREATMENT PLAN
Treatment decisions are based on the stage. The aim of

treatment is “curative” for patients with Stage I–IV A and
“palliative” for patients with Stage IV B (locoregionally
advanced disease) and IV C (metastatic disease).
Early Stage (I/II)

For early Stage (I or II), single modality treatment is used:
Either surgery or RT alone.
Wide local excision and supra-omohyoid neck dissection
(SOND) should be the surgical procedure of choice.
SOND may be avoided if the patient is highly compliant
and meets all the criteria: T1 lesion, node negative status
proven by USG, histologically well differentiated lesions
and thickness of infiltration[11] is <4 mm. All patients with
close/positive margin should be considered for re-excision.
If the patient is not a candidate for the same, PORT should
be considered. Multiple node positivity, margin positive
disease and presence of extra-capsular spread[12,13] mandate
the use concurrent chemo-radiation. The minimum
required PORT dose is 60 Gy at 1.8-2 Gy/fraction. This
may be delivered in a phased manner. The initial phase
would deliver 44 Gy in 22 fractions over 4½ weeks to the
primary and nodal areas using conventional treatment
planning, three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy
(3D-CRT) or intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT).[14]
Every effort should be made to spare the contralateral
parotids. In the second phase the spinal cord should be
shielded and dose delivered to receive a minimum of 60
Gy. In presence of margin positive disease or extra-capsular
spread 66 Gy is the recommended dose. This may be
achieved using electrons or photon boost.
Interstitial brachytherapy alone is used in highly compliant
individuals of early buccal mucosa cancers with all of the
following tumor characteristics: Early lesions preferably
<2 cm, accessible lesions, histologically well differentiated
lesions, lesions situated well away from the bone, node
negative status proven by USG. Brachytherapy may be
delivered using low dose rate[15] (LDR) or high dose rate
(HDR) systems. In general, dose prescription encompasses
the primary with 1.0-1.5 cm margins. The regional nodes
are not addressed at this time of treatment. Doses for
LDR are 65-70 Gy over 6-7 days and for HDR is 48 Gy in
12 fractions (4 Gy twice a day over 6 days).
Patients who are not suitable for brachytherapy may be
treated with EBRT. EBRT is delivered using conventional
planning/3D-CRT/IMRT to doses of 66-70 Gy at
1.8-2 Gy/fraction over 7-8 weeks (or a biologically
equivalent dose) with adequate margins all around the
lesion and including Level I and II nodes. Neck needs
to be observed through close follow-up. In conventional
RT planning, initial lateral portals are treated to 44 Gy in
22 fractions/over 4.5 weeks, followed by 12-16 Gy after

Indian Journal of Medical and Paediatric Oncology | Apr-Jun 2014 | Vol 35 | Issue 2

137

Rath, et al.: ICMR consensus on management of buccal mucosa cancer

spine shielding. Dose of EBRT is restricted to 45-50 Gy if
interstitial boost (dose of 20–25 Gy [LDR] or equivalent
[HDR]) is given.
When concurrent chemo-radiation is used, cisplatin is the
preferred agent.[16] Weekly cisplatin 30-40 mg/m2 should be
used with minimum cumulative dose of 200 mg/m2. Three
weekly regimen of cisplatin with dose of 100 mg/m2 (on
day 1, 22, and 43 of RT) can be used. Monoclonal antibody
therapy directed against epidermal growth factor receptor
(cetuximab and nimotuzumab) added to radiation therapy
improves outcome, however, there is limited evidence
in the Indian literature[17] and cost benefit ratio may be
considered before taking a decision. In patients who are
not candidates for cisplatin, carboplatin and paclitaxel is
the regime of choice for chemo-radiation. Feeding through
nasogastric tube, gastrostomy or jejunostomy is strongly
recommended during chemo-radiation.
Locally advanced (Stage III-IV A)

Patients should be offered combined modality treatment
for these disease stages. Treatment options include: Surgery,
followed by RT with or without chemotherapy, concurrent
chemo-RT, altered fractionation RT schedules, induction
chemotherapy, followed by surgery with or without RT.
Surgical aim should be to widely excise the tumor to obtain
negative margins (0.5-1 cm) all around. Modified radical
neck dissection (MND) should be the procedure of choice.
Extended SOND is followed by MND if matted lymph
nodes or extensive cervical lymph nodes involvement is
found peroperatively and if nodes are positive on frozen
section. Segmental mandibulectomy should be avoided just
to facilitate access to primary cancers of oral cavity. However,
it can be done in cases where there is: Gross invasion of
mandible by tumor, proximity of oral commissure to the
mandible in a previously irradiated patient, invasion of
inferior alveolar nerve or canal by cancer or massive soft
tissue disease is present adjacent to the mandible.
Principles of radiation and concurrent chemo-radiation
remain the same as in early stage disease. Altered fractionation
schedules are valid option for patients who are not candidates
for surgery or are unsuitable for chemo-radiation.[18]
For borderline inoperable disease, chemotherapy may be
considered to facilitate better resection. Based on recent
evidences in the literature,[19] combination regimen with cisplatin,
5-flurouracil and taxane is considered the most effective
neoadjuvant regimen. Alternative chemotherapy schedule is
cisplatin plus 5-flurouracil.[20] Both chemotherapy regimens have
Level I evidence[19,20] in terms of their efficacy in neoadjuvant
setting in head and neck cancers. Resectability subsequent to
induction chemotherapy is best assessed by clinical evaluation
138

and imaging where indicated. CT or MRI scan (if available)
may be used for assessment of disease in inaccessible areas
such as pterygopalatine fossa or infratemporal fossa. It is also
preferable that the pre- and post-chemotherapy assessments are
performed by the same group of oncologists. Patients who have
progressive disease after 3-4 cycles of induction chemotherapy
should be considered for palliative treatment only.
Advanced Stage IV B/metastatic disease

Aim of treatment in these patients is palliation with
maintenance of quality of life. If the primary with or
without nodal disease is symptomatic, consideration
should be given to palliative[21] EBRT. Doses of 30 Gy
in 10 fractions over 2 weeks or weekly EBRT of
7-8 Gy/fraction/week for 2-3 weeks may be employed.
Systemic disease or progressive local disease after RT could
be treated with chemotherapy with any of the following
regimens: Single agent methotrexate, single agent cisplatin,
cisplatin plus 5-flurouracil, cisplatin plus paclitaxel, cisplatin
plus docetaxel or cisplatin plus cetuximab.[22]
RECURRENT DISEASE
For recurrent disease, if recurrence is operable and patient
is RT naïve, surgery followed by PORT with or without
chemotherapy or radical RT (for recurrent T1/T2) may be
employed. Concurrent chemo-radiation or radiation alone
is a valid option in these patients, if surgery is not medically
feasible or patient is not willing for surgery.
If surgery is not feasible and patient has poor performance
status the treatment should be individualized. If RT naïve,
palliative RT else palliative chemotherapy may be employed
along with best supportive care.
FOLLOW-UP AND REHABILITATION
Patient should be encouraged to maintain abstinence
from tobacco and alcohol and maintain oral hygiene.
Dental prophylaxis, shoulder exercises, jaw stretching
exercises, swallowing and speech rehabilitation should
be instituted as appropriate. The aim of follow-up is to
assess the recurrence in primary and nodal areas, to rule
out any second primary and to assess any complication
due to surgery/RT. Follow-up is done every 2-3 months
for first 2 years, six monthly for next 3 years and annually
thereafter. Clinical examination, including history and
physical examination is done at each visit and no routine
radiological investigation is recommended.
REFERENCES
1.

National Cancer Registry Programme, Indian Council of

Indian Journal of Medical and Paediatric Oncology | Apr-Jun 2014 | Vol 35 | Issue 2

Rath, et al.: ICMR consensus on management of buccal mucosa cancer
Medical Research: Three year report of population based
cancer registries 2009-2011. Available from: Http://www.
pbcrindia.org/. [Last accessed on 2014 Jun 16].
2. National Cancer Registry Programme, Indian Council of
Medical Research: Consolidated report of Hospital Based
Registries 2007-2011. Available from: Http://www.
hbcrindia.org/. [Last accessed on 2014 Jun 16].
3. Ferlay J, Shin HR, Bray F, Forman D, Mathers C, Parkin DM.
Estimates of worldwide burden of cancer in 2008:
GLOBOCAN 2008. Int J Cancer 2010;127:2893-917.
4. GLOBOCAN 2012: Estimated cancer incidence, prevalence
and mortality worldwide in 2012. http://www.globocan.
iarc.fr/Pages/fact_sheets_population.aspx. [Last accessed on
2014 Jun 16].
5. Krishnamurthi S, Shanta V, Sastri DV. Combined therapy in
buccal mucosal cancers. Radiology 1971;99:409-15.
6. Bahadur S, Kumar S, Tandon DA, Rath GK, De S. Combined
therapy in advanced head and neck cancers. J Laryngol Otol
1992;106:412-5.
7. Iype EM, Pandey M, Mathew A, Thomas G, Sebastian P,
Nair MK. Oral cancer among patients under the age of 35
years. J Postgrad Med 2001;47:171-6.
8. Badakh DK, Grover AH. The efficacy of postoperative
radiation therapy in patients with carcinoma of the buccal
mucosa and lower alveolus with positive surgical margins.
Indian J Cancer 2005;42:51-6.
9. Yeole BB, Ramanakumar AV, Sankaranarayanan R. Survival
from oral cancer in Mumbai (Bombay), India. Cancer Causes
Control 2003;14:945-52.
10. Edge SB, Byrd DR, Compton CC, Fritz AG, Greene FL,
Trotti A, editors. AJCC Cancer Staging Manual. 7th ed. New
York, NY: Springer; 2010.
11. Mishra RC, Parida G, Mishra TK, Mohanty S. Tumour
thickness and relationship to locoregional failure in cancer of
the buccal mucosa. Eur J Surg Oncol 1999;25:186-9.
12. Cooper JS, Pajak TF, Forastiere AA, Jacobs J, Campbell BH,
Saxman SB, et al. Postoperative concurrent radiotherapy and
chemotherapy for high-risk squamous-cell carcinoma of the
head and neck. N Engl J Med 2004;350:1937-44.
13. Bernier J, Domenge C, Ozsahin M, Matuszewska K,
Lefèbvre JL, Greiner RH, et al. Postoperative irradiation with
or without concomitant chemotherapy for locally advanced
head and neck cancer. N Engl J Med 2004;350:1945-52.
14. Pederson AW, Salama JK, Witt ME, Stenson KM,

Blair EA, Vokes EE, et al. Concurrent chemotherapy and
intensity-modulated radiotherapy for organ preservation of
locoregionally advanced oral cavity cancer. Am J Clin Oncol
2011;34:356-61.
15. Tayier A, Hayashi K, Yoshimura R. Low-dose-rate interstitial
brachytherapy preserves good quality of life in buccal mucosa
cancer patients. J Radiat Res 2011;52:655-9.
16. Pignon JP, le Maître A, Maillard E, Bourhis J, MACH-NC
Collaborative Group. Meta-analysis of chemotherapy in head
and neck cancer (MACH-NC): An update on 93 randomised
trials and 17,346 patients. Radiother Oncol 2009;92:4-14.
17. Dattatreya S, Goswami C. Cetuximab plus radiotherapy in
patients with unresectable locally advanced squamous cell
carcinoma of head and neck region — a open labelled single
arm phase II study. Indian J Cancer 2011;48:154-7.
18. Bourhis J, Overgaard J, Audry H, Ang KK, Saunders M, Bernier
J, et al. Hyperfractionated or accelerated radiotherapy in head
and neck cancer: A meta-analysis. Lancet 2006;368:843-54.
19. Vermorken JB, Remenar E, van Herpen C, Gorlia T, Mesia R,
Degardin M, et al. Cisplatin, fluorouracil, and docetaxel   in
unresectable head and neck cancer. N Engl J Med
2007;357:1695-704.
20. Posner MR, Hershock DM, Blajman CR, Mickiewicz E,
Winquist E, Gorbounova V, et al. Cisplatin and fluorouracil
alone or with docetaxel in head and neck cancer. N Engl J
Med 2007;357:1705-15.
21. Agarwal JP, Nemade B, Murthy V, Ghosh-Laskar S,
Budrukkar A, Gupta T, et al. Hypofractionated, palliative
radiotherapy for advanced head and neck cancer. Radiother
Oncol 2008;89:51-6.
22. Vermorken JB, Trigo J, Hitt R, Koralewski P, Diaz-Rubio E,
Rolland F, et al. Open-label, uncontrolled, multicenter phase
II study to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of cetuximab as
a single agent in patients with recurrent and/or metastatic
squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck who
failed to respond to platinum-based therapy. J Clin Oncol
2007;25:2171-7.
How to cite this article: Rath GK, Parikh PM, Hukku S, Rajan B,
Kumar S, Malhotra H, et al. Indian Council of Medical Research
consensus document for the management of buccal mucosa cancer.
Indian J Med Paediatr Oncol 2014;35:136-9.
Source of Support: Nil, Conflict of Interest: None declared.

Announcement

LATE DR KALLA VENKAT ANAND YOUNG RESEARCHER AWARD
ISMPO is now inviting abstracts for the first ‘Late Dr Kalla Venkat Anand Young Researcher Award’. The award honours a
young medical oncologist from India (age ≤ 40 years as on 31.12.2014) whose research work is adjudged to be the best
among those submitted for the Annual ISMPO Meeting to be held in Kolkata on 26 – 28 December, 2014. The Awardee
will be conferred a Medal along with a grant. For detailed information please visit www.ismpo.org. Last date of abstract
submission is 30.10.2014 (Midnight).

Indian Journal of Medical and Paediatric Oncology | Apr-Jun 2014 | Vol 35 | Issue 2

139

