4

Chapter 1

Aetiology and epidemiology

Genetic factors
• 77 million deaths worldwide can be attributed to malignancy each year.
•	The interplay between the hereditary and environmental risk factors
underlying the development of malignancy is becoming clearer.
• It is thought that at least 50% of cases are preventable.
• ° prevention strategies focus on modifiable lifestyle and environmental
risk factors.
• Most cancers are thought to arise as monoclonal, i.e. a single cell
accumulates sufficient mutations in key genes to cause uncontrolled cell
proliferation.
•	As cancers progress, in many cases, they gain new mutational events
and may become more heterogeneous.
• Genes involved in the development of cancers fall into three categories.

Tumour suppressor genes
• Genes whose function is lost during carcinogenesis.
• Both allele copies must be inactivated, before the tumour suppressor
function is completely lost (absence of normal protein product), i.e. can
be classified as recessive.
• Functional mutations result in loss of growth inhibitory mechanisms.
• Mutations can be hereditary (germline mutations) or acquired.
•	An example of a tumour suppressor gene—the p53 gene:
• produces a transcriptional regulator involved in cell cycle control and
maintaining genomic integrity
• 750% of human cancers possess p53 mutations, including breast,
lung, pancreas, colon, and brain tumours, and malignancies seen in
the inherited Li–Fraumeni syndrome.

Proto-oncogenes
• Genes whose function becomes enhanced in carcinogenesis.
• Usually play an essential role in controlling cell proliferation, encoding
growth factors, growth factor receptors, transcription factors, etc.
• Mutations of oncogenes may impede normal cell cycle regulation,
causing uncontrolled cellular replication.
• Mutation in only one of the proto-oncogene alleles is needed for the
mutant gene product to influence downstream events, i.e. mutations are
dominant at the cellular level.
•	An example of a proto-oncogene—the Ras gene:
• encodes a membrane-associated G protein responsible for cellular
signal transduction
• mutated Ras products remain activated, even in the absence of the
appropriate growth factor receptor signal
• mutations in Ras are implicated in 30% of all cancers, including
melanoma, lung, and pancreas.

DNA repair genes
• Genes whose usual function is to carry out DNA repair.
• Functional mutations of DNA repair genes accelerate the accumulation
of mutated tumour suppressor genes and proto-oncogenes.

Genetic factors

•	An example of a DNA repair gene—the ATM gene:
• encodes a protein involved in the detection of DNA damage, with an
important role in cell cycle progression
• multiple double-stranded DNA breaks lead to high rates of
chromosomal rearrangements
• produces the syndrome of ataxia–telangiectasia, associated with:
— progressive cerebellar ataxia
— i incidence of malignancies (usually lymphomas/leukaemias)
— hypersensitive response to treatment with ionizing radiation.
The relative contribution of the genetic mutation to the cancer varies.

Specific genes that confer a high probability of susceptibility
to specific cancers
• Comprise at least 5% of the total incidence of fatal cancers.
• Usually:
• highly penetrant
• dominantly inherited.
• Examples include:
• BRCA1/2 genes—mutations account for the majority of hereditary
breast carcinomas. ♀ carriers have 55–85% lifetime risk of breast
carcinoma, and 40% (BRCA1) or 18% (BRCA2) lifetime risk of ovarian
cancer. i incidence of pancreatic, ♂ breast, and prostate cancers
also reported
• RB1 gene—on chromosome 13. Encodes a nuclear protein, which
acts as a tumour suppressor. Mutations may be hereditary or
acquired. Inactivation of both alleles causes retinoblastoma
• APC gene—on chromosome 5. Mutations result in familial
adenomatous polyposis (FAP), which classically causes the
development of numerous colonic adenomas, with subsequent
malignant transformation.

Genes with modest effects that may interact with
environmental factors
• For example, tumour viruses expressing genes that disrupt the activity
of tumour suppressor genes.

Genetic (somatic) mutations caused by recognizable
carcinogens causing sporadic cancers
• Many exogenous carcinogens cause somatic mutations.
• Examples include:
• aromatic hydrocarbons
• ultraviolet (UV) radiation.

Other factors
• More recently, it has become clear that mutational events alone only
tell part of the story. The science of EPIGENETICS has established that
other modifications can occur in the genetic code, which influence gene
expression. In addition, post-translational modification of proteins can
also play a significant role.

5

6

Chapter 1

Aetiology and epidemiology

Gender
• Many cancers occur more frequently in one or other sex, e.g. stomach
cancer—twice as frequent in men.
• It is difficult to distinguish innate differences in susceptibility from
differences caused by other risk factors, e.g. the greater incidence
of carcinoma of the bladder in men was thought to represent an
innate difference in susceptibility—but, when exposed to the same
occupational carcinogens and tobacco smoke, women are at least as
susceptible to the disease.

Gender

7

8

Chapter 1

Aetiology and epidemiology

External factors
Smoking
•	Tobacco smoking is:
• the most important known carcinogen
• the largest single avoidable cause of premature death in the
developed world.
• 15% of all cancer cases worldwide, and >30% of cases in men from
developed countries, are attributed to smoking.
•	Associated particularly with lung cancer, which is the commonest cause
of cancer death. Smoking is responsible for 790% of cases of lung cancer.
The relative risk in a lifelong smoker, compared to a lifelong non-smoker,
is between 10- and 30-fold, depending on the intensity and duration
of exposure. It has been estimated that smoking was responsible for
0.85 million avoidable deaths from lung cancer in 2000 worldwide.
•	Also has a definite causative role in many other cancers, including:
• mesothelioma
• myeloid leukaemia
• gastrointestinal (GI) tract, including the oral cavity, oesophageal,
gastric, and pancreatic
• ear, nose, and throat (ENT), including pharyngeal, laryngeal, and
nasopharyngeal, and cancers of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses
• urinary tract, including bladder and renal
• liver
• cervical.
• Cigarette smoking has a synergistic (multiplicative) effect on the risk of
development of neoplasms caused by other carcinogens, e.g. alcohol,
asbestos.
•	A substantial increase in the cancer burden may be expected, unless
measures to control consumption are strengthened—a consequence of
the ongoing increase in global cigarette consumption, especially amongst
women and in developing countries.
•	Smoking cessation reduces the risk of cancer, but programmes
promoting cessation have had only limited success.
•	Passive exposure to tobacco smoke also contributes. Estimates are
that 15–30% of lung cancer in patients who have never smoked can be
attributed to environmental tobacco smoke exposure.

Alcohol
•	Alcohol is implicated as causative in several malignancies, including:
• head and neck cancer, and cancer of the oropharynx—the risk
increases linearly with alcohol intake
• oesophageal cancer, particularly squamous—the risk is strongly
related to alcohol intake and again appears to be increased, even at
low levels of consumption
• breast cancer—studies suggest that moderate to heavy alcohol intake
(>2 units/day) is associated with an increased incidence of carcinoma
of the breast; 2–10% of all breast cancers may be related to alcohol
intake. The mechanism of carcinogenesis is unclear, but it is thought it
could be related to an increase in circulating oestrogens and androgens

External factors

hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)—moderate to heavy drinking is
a risk factor for alcoholic cirrhosis, and this is a risk factor for
hepatocellular cancer. Excessive alcohol intake in the absence of
cirrhosis has a less clear role.
•	A confounding factor in many studies is that excess alcohol intake has a
positive association with tobacco consumption. These two factors can
have a synergistic, rather than additive, effect on cancer incidence, but
the association between the two can make assessment of the relative
contribution of each difficult to elucidate.
•

Diet
Obesity
•	Adult obesity is a risk factor for many solid tumours, including:
• endometrial cancer
• post-menopausal breast cancer
• cancer of the kidney
• oesophageal carcinoma
• colorectal carcinoma.
•	Has also been suggested to contribute to the development of prostate,
liver, ovarian, gastric, and pancreatic malignancies.
• May have a role in up to 20% of cancer deaths in the developed world.
•	The mechanisms underlying the association between obesity and
malignancy are poorly understood.
•	The epidemic of obesity in the developed world will undoubtedly
increase the cancer burden in those populations.
General dietary risk factors
•	High levels of vegetable consumption appear to be associated with a
reduced risk of colon cancer, particularly distal tumours, although the
prospective evidence is not strong.
• Consistent evidence that a high intake of vegetables and fruit reduces
the risk of other tumours is lacking.
•	High levels of red meat consumption appear to increase the risk of
colonic and rectal cancer.
•	A high-fibre diet has previously been reported as being associated with a
lower risk of carcinoma of the colon. However, these results may have
been influenced by confounding dietary factors, such as folate intake,
and the association has not been confirmed.
• Fat consumption—there is ongoing interest in whether the various types
of dietary fats influence cancer risk differently, with most concern over
the saturated and trans fats found in meats and some dairy produce.
Specific dietary risk factors
•	Appropriate dietary modifications may significantly influence the
incidence of certain cancers.
• Examples include:
• salt fish—reducing the intake of salt fish could reduce the incidence
of nasopharyngeal cancer in developing countries by 33–50%
• aflatoxins—a mycotoxin produced by Aspergillus species of mould
which frequently contaminates corn, peanuts, and soybeans. Halving
the median daily intake of aflatoxins may reduce the incidence of
HCC in Africa and Asia by up to 40%.

9

10

Chapter 1

Aetiology and epidemiology

Exercise
•	Physical inactivity appears to be associated with an increased risk of
many adult tumours.
• Current evidence is greatest for breast and colonic cancers.
•	The benefit of increasing exercise appears to be independent of
associated obesity.
• Benefit also exists in reducing recurrence rates and improved outcomes
in patients who adopt an exercise programme, even after the cancer
diagnosis—the evidence being strongest in breast cancer.

External factors

11

12

Chapter 1

Aetiology and epidemiology

Infections
Sixteen per cent of the worldwide incidence of cancer is due to infection. For developed countries, the proportion is 9%, and for developing
countries >20%.

Viral infections
• Most tumour viruses are ubiquitous; the prevalence of infection is much
higher than the incidence of their respective form of tumour.
•	The development of associated tumours requires many years of infection.
• Viral infection plays a significant role in the initial step towards
carcinogenesis. However, other co-factors are necessary for the
development of virally linked tumours, including genetic, immunological,
and environmental factors.
•	Some viruses increase the risk of multiple malignancies (see Chapter 28).
•	Other viruses are directly linked to human tumours. Examples include
the following.
Human papillomavirus
•	The most frequent sexually acquired infection in the developed world.
• Genital infection is via unprotected sexual intercourse or close contact
with an infected area.
•	Small, double-stranded DNA viruses (Papovaviridae family).
•	Specifically infect squamous epithelial cells.
• >100 different genotypes identified.
•	Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection accounts for >80% of cervical
cancers worldwide.
•	Also associated with vaginal, vulval, penile, and anal carcinoma.
•	Strongest evidence for carcinogenicity is for HPV types 16 and 18
(cervical cancer).
•	A quadrivalent vaccine is now available for girls/unvaccinated women; a
national (United Kingdom, UK) programme for immunization has been
introduced. Cervical screening programmes in developed countries have
reduced the incidence of cervical carcinoma.
Hepatitis B and C virus
• 81% of cases of HCC are attributable to chronic infection.
• 75% with ° hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection develop lifelong hepatic
infection l hepatocellular injury l chronic hepatitis.
• Chronic HBV infection is associated with i 100-fold risk of HCC.
•	The prevalence of HBV carriers in South East Asia, China, and
sub-Saharan Africa may be >20%.
• Modern antiviral therapies can now eradicate chronic infection and hold
promise of reducing the incidence of HCC dramatically in the future.

Infections

Epstein–Barr virus
•	An endemic Herpes virus.
•	Hodgkin’s lymphoma (HL)—Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) may account for:
• up to 60% of Hodgkin’s disease in developed countries
• ≥80% in developing countries.
• Burkitt’s lymphoma (BL):
• EBV is thought to be causative in >90% of BL in equatorial Africa
(>90% of children are infected with EBV by the age of 3y, and
Burkitt’s is the most common childhood malignancy)
• has a lesser role elsewhere (<25% of cases outside Africa, the
Middle East, and South America)
• malaria infection is considered a co-factor in the genesis of BL.
Putative mechanisms for this include chronic stimulus for B-cell
proliferation or depression of cytotoxic T-cell function, such that
EBV infection may escape T-cell surveillance.
• Greater uncertainty about the role of EBV in other types of
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL).
•	Highly consistent association with nasopharyngeal carcinoma. EBV can
be found in every anaplastic nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell.

Bacterial infections
Helicobacter (H.) pylori
• Clear association between H. pylori infection and gastric
adenocarcinoma.
•	One-third of gastric adenocarcinomas in developed countries can be
attributed solely to H. pylori, and this figure is likely to be closer to 50%
in developing countries.
•	The mechanism of carcinogenesis is not fully understood.
• H. pylori is also likely to have a role in the development of gastric
lymphoma.
• Different strains may have different carcinogenic potential.

Parasitic infections
Schistosomiasis haematobium (bilharzial bladder disease)
• Linked to hyperplasia, metaplasia, dysplasia, and invasive carcinoma of
the bladder.
• 8% of cases of bladder cancer in the developing world may be
attributable to infection—the majority of which are squamous cell.
• It is not relevant in bladder cancer seen in the developed world.

13

14

Chapter 1

Aetiology and epidemiology

Exposures
Solar exposure
•	Over 1 million cases of skin cancer are diagnosed worldwide each year.
• Epidemiological evidence suggests >90% of malignant melanoma is
attributable to solar radiation.
•	The most frequent ° sites are areas exposed intermittently, but
intensely, e.g. skin of the back.
•	Australians (mostly white and intensely exposed to UV radiation) have
the highest incidence of melanoma in the world.
•	Sun exposure in childhood is a particular risk factor.
• Exposure to solar radiation is also likely to account for the great
majority of non-melanoma skin cancer.
• Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC)
are associated with cumulative sun exposure, typically in maximally
sun-exposed areas, e.g. face and ears.

Other radiation exposure
•	The initiating factor in carcinogenesis is probably a mutation in a tumour
suppressor/proto-oncogene l aberrant loss/gain of function.
•	High-dose exposure:
• doses of 500–2000mSv are known to be carcinogenic, potentially
causing several malignancies, e.g. acute leukaemias, thyroid cancer
• exposures of this magnitude are unusual—much of the data come
from complex epidemiological studies performed in the wake of
Nagasaki, Hiroshima, and Chernobyl, or from studies of second
malignancies in patients previously treated for cancer.
• Low-dose exposure:
• the average per capita dose from all sources of ionizing radiation
is 73.4mSv per year (788% from natural sources and the remainder
primarily from medical exposures)
• most data have been collated from studies on 2° malignancies in
survivors previously treated with radiotherapy and epidemiological
studies of miners
• extrapolation from data on exposure to ≥500mSv suggests that
1–3% of all cancers may be attributable to radiation arising largely
from natural sources.
•	Radiation sensitivity:
• 73% of the population show undue sensitivity to conventional
doses of ionizing radiation without any obvious pre-treatment
phenotype, apart from the presence of cancer. This group is at risk
of excess toxicity from standard radiation therapy regimens. Greater
understanding of underlying defects in DNA repair, cell cycling, and
DNA damage signal transduction would allow appropriate tailoring
of therapy
• rare radiosensitivity syndromes also exist, predisposing to early
development of cancer, e.g. ataxia–telangiectasia, Bloom’s syndrome.
Susceptibility to DNA damage is enhanced, and both radiotherapy
and chemotherapy regimes need adjustment accordingly.

Exposures

Other exposures
Other exposures account for <5% of the cancer burden. Many chemical
carcinogens have been identified.
Industrial exposure
• Dye/textile workers (naphythylamines)—bladder cancers.
• Chemical, rubber workers (benzene)—haematological malignancies.
•	Asbestos exposure—lung cancer, mesothelioma (notifiable).
Pharmacological exposure
• Many chemotherapeutic agents used in the treatment of cancer are
carcinogenic, e.g. alkylating agents.
•	High-dose diethylstilbestrol during pregnancy (used in the 1960s to
reduce the risk of miscarriage) l a small percentage of ♀ offspring
developed clear cell carcinoma of the vagina, as they reached the
menarche.
Environmental exposure
• Few causal links with environmental pollutants have been firmly
established.
• Estimates suggest 71% of lung cancer deaths (United States (US) figures)
are attributable to air pollution.
•	The incidence of many cancers varies greatly between geographical
areas—this includes variations between countries and between different
regions within countries.
• Variations reflect complex interactions between genetic, environmental,
economic, and behavioural factors.
• Migration between areas of contrasting incidence l the migrant
population usually acquires the cancer pattern of their adopted country,
i.e. environmental, rather than genetic, factors dominate, except in rare
familial cases.
• Cancer incidence can vary between socio-economic groups.
• Epidemiological studies help in further understanding of the aetiology
of different cancers and allow the development of strategies for disease
prevention.

15

16

Chapter 1

Aetiology and epidemiology

Further reading
Coyle YM (2009). Lifestyle, genes and cancer. Methods Mol Biol 472, 25–56.
Danaei G, Vander Hoorn S, Lopez AD, et al. (2005). Causes of cancer in the world: comparative
assessment of nine behavioural and environmental risk factors. Lancet 366, 1784.
Dumitrescu RG (2009). Epigenetic targets in cancer epidemiology. Methods Mol Biol 471, 457–67.
Jemal A, Siegel R, Ward E, et al. (2008). Cancer statistics 2008. CA Cancer J Clin 58, 71.
Schottenfeld D, Fraumeni JF (eds.) (2006). Cancer epidemiology and prevention, 3rd edn.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Chapter 2

The genetics of cancer
Introduction to genetics of cancer 18
‘The cancer phenotype’ 19
Oncogenes and tumour suppressor genes 20
Driver and passenger mutations 22
Synthetic lethality/induced vulnerabilities mediated by
oncogenes and tumour suppressors 23
Multistep carcinogenesis 24
Genetic predisposition to cancer 25
Predictive genetic testing 26
Common cancer predispositions 27
Bowel cancer family history 28
Low-risk alleles 30

17

18

Chapter 2

The genetics of cancer

Introduction to genetics of cancer
Over the past 10 years, the advent of high-throughput sequencing technology has revolutionized cancer genetics. Whole cancer genomes can now
be determined in a matter of hours. Allelic variations that predispose to
cancer, some as little as 2-fold, have been determined in larger-scale population studies. With these increased data comes the need to understand
the biological meaning of all these changes and the implications this will
have for cancer therapy. This chapter reviews some of the successes (e.g.
BRAF mutation identification and targeted treatment in melanoma) but also
reviews the challenges that now face the community.

‘The cancer phenotype’

‘The cancer phenotype’
Cancer arises following the accumulation of mutations to the DNA. These
mutations are thought to subvert normal tissue processes that protect
against tumourigenesis. Cancers that arise from the epithelium are the most
common, and much investigation has focused on the reasons why cancers
form in these tissues and on the protective mechanisms from which cancer
cells have to escape. For example, in rapidly renewing tissues, such as the
intestinal epithelium, cancer cells need to escape from the normal sloughing
off process and the terminal differentiation that occurs. Other processes
that cancer cells require are more generic: the need to escape from immune
cell killing, the development of a blood supply, the ability to grow in the
absence of growth factors and survive energetic stress, and the resistance
to cell death stimuli. Finally, cancer cells gain the ability to invade out of tissues, survive in the circulation, and then grow at 2° sites such as the liver.
For an excellent review of the factors or ‘hallmarks’ required by cancer
cells, see references 1 and 2. It should be noted that, more recently, the
ability of cancer cells to subvert the normal cells of the body has become
evident. In pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, up to 80% of cells within the
tumour are non-cancer cells or stroma. These stromal cells which include
specific immune cells (such as macrophages), fibroblasts, and endothelial
cells are all vital for the growth of the tumour and can also play an important role as a physical barrier, stopping optimal drug penetration. They may
also provide important survival factors that could stop targeted therapies
from working.

1 Hanahan D, Weinberg RA (2000). The hallmarks of cancer. Cell 100, 57–70.
2 Hanahan D, Weinberg RA (2011). Hallmarks of cancer: the next generation. Cell 144, 646–74.

19

20

Chapter 2

The genetics of cancer

Oncogenes and tumour suppressor genes
There are two classes of genes that are mutated in cancer: oncogenes and
tumour suppressor genes.

Oncogenes
These are genes encoding proteins whose expression normally leads to a
proliferative phenotype and suppression of apoptosis. One of the most
classical families of oncogenes is the RAS family (HRAS, KRAS, and NRAS).
RAS family proteins act downstream of growth factor signalling pathways,
e.g. epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signalling, and, following
stimulation of these pathways, RAS is activated by switching from the inactive guanosine diphosphate (GDP)-bound form into the active guanosine
triphosphate (GTP)-bound form. Normally, this requires the activity of an
upstream RAS GEF protein such as SOS; however, when RAS is mutated, via
mutations in codons 12, 13, and 61, it is permanently locked in the active
GTP-bound form, allowing growth factor-independent signalling. Other
common oncogenes in cancers are BRAF, RET, SRC, ERBB2/3, and MYC.
Many mechanisms, in addition to mutation, can lead to the overexpression of these to drive cancer. For example, amplifications of genes, such as
ERBB2 in breast and SRC in colon cancer, are common and lead to high levels of expression. Chromosomal fusions can cause oncogenes to be fused
to highly expressed tissue specific promoters, resulting in overexpression
of the oncogene in those tissues. Moreover, the expression of oncogenes
can often be a direct consequence of other signalling pathways that are
deregulated in cancer. For example, MYC is a target of both the RAS and
Wnt pathways, which are often activated in cancer.

Tumour suppressor genes
Tumour suppressor genes broadly fall into two classes. The first set includes
those genes that drive apoptosis or block proliferation and growth by inhibition of key signalling pathways. The second set comprises those genes that
are required for DNA damage repair, the loss of which leads to a ‘mutator’
phenotype.
Over the past 10 years, our definition of tumour suppressor genes had
broadened. Previously, to be classified as a ‘bona fide’ tumour suppressor gene, both copies of the gene would need to be mutated in cancer.
Moreover, it was thought that tumour suppressor genes would be associated with an inherited disease syndrome. For example, germline mutations
of the tumour suppressor genes TP53, APC, and PTEN lead to Li–Fraumeni
syndrome, FAP, and Cowden disease, respectively. Patients with these syndromes carry a mutant copy throughout their body and develop cancer in
a tumour-prone tissue upon the loss of the remaining allele. Li–Fraumeni
syndrome patients develop predominantly breast cancers, whilst FAP
patients develop predominantly colon cancer. The precise reason for the
particular tissue type affected is a subject of much study, but generally it
is thought that a specific tumour suppressor may be particularly important
in that tissue type. This is particularly clear for the adenomatous polyposis
coli (APC) protein, as its function is to negatively regulate the Wnt signalling pathway that is essential for the control of intestinal homeostasis but

Oncogenes and tumour suppressor genes

is less important in other tissues. Mechanistically, tumour suppressors, such
as APC and PTEN, play key roles as negative regulators of important growth
factor signalling pathways, so that loss of these genes leads to growth
factor-independent pathway activation (very similar to the situation of RAS
mutation). Although the most commonly mutated tumour suppressor gene
is TP53, the precise function of the p53 protein required for tumour suppression is still unclear. Loss of p53, a transcription factor, leads to failure
to induce apoptosis and growth arrest, following DNA damage, increased
genomic instability, impaired DNA repair, alteration in homeostasis, and
changes in metabolism, all of which could be important for tumour progression. In addition, mutation in TP53 can often lead to a non-functional,
but very stable, protein that carries oncogenic properties.
Through its ability to bind to other family members, e.g. p63 and p73,
mutant p53 can interfere with the functions of these proteins and drive
invasion and metastasis. Given the myriad of functions of p53, the reason
for loss or mutation may vary from tumour to tumour and may be very
dependent on the oncogene that initiated the tumour and the precise stage
of tumourigenesis. This will be discussed more in the multistep model of
tumourigenesis (see E Multistep carcinogenesis, p. 24).
The second class of tumour suppressor genes, those whose loss leads to
a ‘mutator’ phenotype due to DNA repair defects, includes BRCA2/BRCA1
and the mismatch repair family genes HMSH2 and HMLH1. The proteins
encoded by these genes play important roles in non-homologous end joining and mismatch repair, respectively. BRCA1/2 mutations increase the
familial risk of breast, ovarian, and, to a lesser extent, pancreatic cancer,
whilst mutations in the mismatch repair proteins predominantly predispose
to colorectal cancer. Interestingly, nearly all breast tumours that arise within
BRCA carriers sporadically mutate TP53, presumably to allow the BRCA
loss-driven instability to be tolerated. Although rarely mutated in sporadic
cancer, HMLH1 is often epigenetically inactivated via methylation in a large
proportion of colorectal cancers that exhibit microsatellite instability, a hallmark of mismatch repair deficiency.

21

22

Chapter 2

The genetics of cancer

Driver and passenger mutations
The recent sequencing efforts headed by the International Cancer Genome
Consortium (ICGC) have now resulted in the publication of many different
cancer genomes. This led to a redefinition of what constitutes a pathogenic
mutation in cancer. In tissues that are constantly exposed to mutagens, e.g.
the skin or intestine, tumours arise with hundreds of mutations. It is unlikely
that all these mutations are driving cancer progression, and thus the concept of ‘driver’ and ‘passenger’ mutations has emerged. Driver mutations
must be frequent and induce changes in the gene sequence that alters the
protein encoded by that gene. Pathogenic mutations result in a loss of function, e.g. nonsense mutations or frameshifts that stop protein production,
or arise in ‘hot spots’ and result in aberrant activation like those that occur
in codon 12 of KRAS. Passenger mutations are those that do not alter protein coding and generally occur at very low frequencies. In practice, the
definition of driver and passenger mutations may be difficult. In a cancer
type with a high mutation rate, for example, a particularly large gene may
be mutated in a significant fraction of the disease (e.g. 10%) but may still
only be a passenger mutation. Moreover, in following cancer treatment, a
passenger mutation that may only be present at a low frequency in a subset
of tumour cells might confer a selective advantage and drive resistance and
hence switch from a passenger mutation to a driver.
Therefore, following the detection of mutations in cancer, it is fundamentally important to functionally understand the consequences of these mutations. This can be done through manipulation in cell lines, in ° tumours,
or in proof of principle genetically engineered mouse models where those
mutations can be targeted to the same tissues of the mouse. It should also
be noted that, rather than an individual gene being mutated in a particular
cancer, sometimes many nodes on the same pathway might be mutated.
Indeed, recent sequencing studies have shown that one of the most commonly mutated pathways in cancer is the ‘axon guidance pathway’. Although
the functional significance of these mutations is still unclear, these sequencing initiatives have revealed the previously unappreciated importance of this
pathway in cancer.

SYNTHETIC LETHALITY/INDUCED VULNERABILITIES

Synthetic lethality/induced
vulnerabilities mediated by oncogenes
and tumour suppressors
One of the aims of sequencing is to identify mutations that may allow targeting of the pathways activated by those mutations with specific inhibitors.
This has led to the concept of an ‘actionable mutation’. In 2002, one of
the first sequencing studies identified that BRAF was commonly mutated
in melanoma. Within 10 years of this publication, BRAF kinase inhibitors
had been developed, trialled, and licensed for clinical practice in melanoma.
Importantly, these inhibitors were ineffective in melanomas lacking BRAF
mutation. Although resistance to these inhibitors is acquired rapidly, their
development shows how quickly information can be translated to the clinic.
Other oncogenes/tumour suppressor events that have allowed targeted
treatment include HER2 overexpression, which renders cancers responsive
to a blocking antibody trastuzumab, and BCR-ABL fusions in chronic myeloid
leukaemia (CML) allowing targeted treatment with imatinib and other ABL
inhibitors.
Many mutations that occur, however, cause loss of function, and, despite
efforts in gene therapy, restoring proteins that are lost is not currently
feasible. As mentioned previously, the loss of some tumour suppressors
leads to the activation of pathways that might be druggable, e.g. APC loss
activating Wnt signalling and PTEN loss activating phosphatidylinositol-3
(PI3) kinase signalling. In many cases, however, the loss of proteins like
p53 or BRCA1/BRCA2 does not immediately indicate a pathway to target. This has led to many small molecule and ribonucleic acid interference
(RNAi) screens to identify ‘synthetic lethality’ or ‘induced vulnerabilities’
in cancer cells lacking tumour suppressor genes, by a non-biased method.
Probably the most elegant example of synthetic lethality was revealed in
DNA repair-defective BRCA1/2-deficient cells. The use of inhibitors of poly
(adenosine diphosphate-ribose) polymerase (PARP) to target a compensating DNA repair pathway in these cells resulted in cell death, whilst having no
effect on normal cells or BRCA-proficient cells. Although PARP inhibition is
not yet licensed in patients with breast cancer, BRCA1/2-deficient cells also
showed heightened sensitivity to platinum-based cytotoxics such as carboplatin and cisplatin, which are used clinically.
Despite intense research, very few other kinase inhibitors have worked
as single agents in clinical trials, even when key pathways have been inhibited downstream of an oncogenic mutation. Moreover, despite hundreds
of publications on synthetic lethality, very few therapies based on this
approach have made it into the clinic. There will be many reasons for this,
but it is important to remember that, given the high mutational burden in
human cancers, none of these mutations occur in isolation. Furthermore,
many pathways that drive resistance to targeted agents in vivo might be
derived not only from aberrant signalling within the tumour cells, but also
from surrounding stromal cells.

23

24

Chapter 2

The genetics of cancer

Multistep carcinogenesis
The concept of driver mutations may have originated from sequencing
studies, but, for over 20 years, it has been evident that certain mutations
are common in specific cancers. APC is mutated in 780% of colorectal cancers, whilst KRAS is mutated in up to 95% of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas. These very common mutations are thought to be the initiating
event in tumourigenesis in these tissues where they cause benign lesions
that alone would not progress to cancer. Within the colon, polyps very
commonly have APC mutations, and, within the pancreas, pre-malignant
pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasias (PanINs) have KRAS mutations. Benign
naevi of the skin, the presumed precursors to melanoma, very often harbour BRAF mutations. However, it is the acquisition of further mutations
that drives progression from the benign to malignant state. Second hits are
often thought to occur as a direct consequence of the initiating oncogene.
For example, both KRAS and BRAF mutations are known to induce senescence/growth arrest, following the initiation of benign lesions, and hence
genes encoding proteins that can abrogate senescence, such as p16, PTEN,
and p53, are often mutated in pancreatic cancer and melanoma to drive
tumour progression.
Of all cancers, the multistep carcinogenesis model has been best exemplified in colon cancer where, following APC mutation, further mutations occur
in KRAS, TP53, and genes in the transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ)
and PI3 kinase pathways to drive progression. Most colon cancers will have
mutations in at least three, out of five, of these pathways. It is interesting to
note, however, that, although many mutations in colon cancer arise outwith
these five major pathways, it has been hard to classify their roles in tumour
progression. Further studies in these pathways will be important.

Genetic predisposition to cancer

Genetic predisposition to cancer
Epidemiological studies of most cancers have demonstrated a moderate
(2–3 times) increase in risk among first-degree relatives of affected individuals. In a minority, this may represent families where an inherited gene alteration confers a high risk of developing a specific cancer; in others, relatives
may have an increased susceptibility to developing cancer in response to
environmental carcinogens or may simply share environmental risk factors.
Familial cancers may be recognized by:
• the occurrence of rare tumours known to be genetic, e.g. bilateral
retinoblastoma
• associated phenotypic features, e.g. multiple polyps in FAP, mucosal
pigmentation in Peutz–Jeghers syndrome, or chromosome breakage in a
DNA repair disorder.
In other situations, clues must be sought from the family history:
• unusually early age of onset of the tumour
• multiple or bilateral tumours
• familial clustering of the same tumour type or of related types (such as
breast and ovary, or colon and uterus).
In general, the following may raise suspicion of a familial predisposition:
• three or more close relatives (on the same side of the family) with the
same common cancer (or related cancers)
• two or more close relatives (on the same side of the family) with the
same common cancer (or related cancers) where one is affected under
50 years
• one close relative with early-onset cancer, e.g. breast cancer under
40 years, bowel cancer under 45 years
• one close relative with multiple ° cancers
• two or more relatives with the same uncommon cancer, e.g. sarcoma,
glioma, pancreatic cancer, etc.
Such families should be referred to clinical genetics services, so that the
family histories can be verified and risk assessments performed. Sometimes,
clinical examination may be needed to seek features of a specific genetic
syndrome such as Cowden syndrome (mucosal ‘cobblestone’ papules, facial
trichilemmomas, acral keratoses, craniomegaly), Gorlin syndrome (hypertelorism, frontal bossing, palmar and plantar pits), or neurofibromatosis
(café-au-lait patches, cutaneous neurofibromas, axillary freckling). More
commonly, there are no specific signs, and assessment is based on the family history itself, but, if appropriate, cancer surveillance can be arranged for
at-risk relatives, although evidence of its effectiveness is often lacking, and
recruitment to trials is important, where available.
In a small number of families, molecular genetic testing may be possible, but only where the causative germline mutation can be identified in a
blood sample from an affected relative. Thus, for many families, no genetic
test is possible, either because the family is not thought likely to harbour
a mutation in a known predisposition gene, a sample is not available from
an affected relative, or analysis of the relevant predisposition genes has not
identified the causative mutation in the family.

25

26

Chapter 2

The genetics of cancer

Predictive genetic testing
Where a mutation has been identified in a family and consent to share the
results is available, relatives can be offered a genetic test to find out whether
they have inherited the familial predisposition. This would normally be
offered via a clinical genetics service, after consultation with a genetic counsellor and with sufficient time to consider all the implications. It is important
for the individual to appreciate that a positive result does not make cancer
inevitable, and a negative result is not a guarantee against cancer developing. However, it may help guide who needs surveillance, allow decisions to
be made about potential risk-reducing surgery, and clarify the risks to the
next generation. The potential for psychological distress and for the effect
of the findings on other family members, as well as on the individual being
tested, should all be considered. There have been concerns that there may
be implications for insurance premiums, which has led to guidelines being
drawn up to address these issues in the UK and elsewhere.

Implications of genetic testing for the affected individual
Much of the discussion around predictive genetic testing is often focused
on the healthy ‘at-risk’ individual in the family, rather than on the affected
relative whose blood is needed to start the testing process. There may be
implications for the affected individual as well that need to be considered:
• many genetic analyses result in a negative result, as no mutation has
been identified, but this should NOT be taken to mean that there is no
genetic predisposition in the family, merely that it has not been identified
• sometimes, no clear result is obtained, i.e. a ‘sequence change’ is found
in the individual’s blood, but it is unclear whether this is a benign variant
or pathogenic, and further testing may be needed to try to understand
its significance
• a positive result may cause some distress to the affected individual, and
feelings of guilt if this has been passed on to other family members,
especially children
• there may be implications for the individual themselves, such as an
increased risk of metachronous cancers or of cancers at associated sites
which may not have been foreseen from the family history (e.g. ovarian
cancer risk where a BRCA1 mutation is found in a breast cancer family).

Common cancer predispositions

Common cancer predispositions
Breast cancer family history
(See E Genetics of breast cancer, p. 266.)
Concern about a family history of breast cancer is a common referral to
both clinical genetics and breast clinics. Many women can be reassured if
there is a single relative affected over the age of 40 years, or two relatives
but on different sides of the family.
Where it appears that there may be a ‘moderate’ increase in risk, mammographic surveillance under the age of 50 years may be offered, but, in
most families, genetic testing is unlikely to be useful. This is because the
majority of families, if they do harbour breast cancer predisposition genes,
will have genes conferring low or moderate increased risk, which are not
yet identified or amenable to testing. It may be appropriate to store samples
from affected relatives, if they wish to do so, or submit such families to
research studies with the aim of identifying these genes. An exception may
be for families in whom there is Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry, where specific
mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes are more likely, and testing for these
could be offered after counselling.
For families where there is a higher likelihood of a predisposition gene
and where an affected relative is willing to give a blood sample, genetic
analysis for the two major high-risk genes BRCA1 and BRCA2 can be offered.
At present, this is suggested where the chance of identifying a mutation
is estimated to be at least 20%, which would include most families with
ovarian, as well as breast, cancers, families with two breast cancers under
30 years, three breast cancers under 40 years, or four breast cancers under
50 years. Occasionally, testing for other genes, such as PTEN (Cowden syndrome) or p53 (Li–Fraumeni syndrome), may be considered, depending on
the spectrum of cancers that have occurred in the family.
Where a woman is found to carry a BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation,
options include mammographic and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) surveillance, or risk-reducing surgery, and the risk to the ovaries must also be
considered.

27

28

Chapter 2

The genetics of cancer

Bowel cancer family history
An increased risk of bowel cancer may occasionally be due to a recognizable syndrome, identified by the presence of polyps, such as FAP or one of
the hamartomatous polyp syndromes (Cowden syndrome, Peutz–Jeghers,
juvenile polyposis), and genetic testing can find the causative mutation in the
majority of these conditions.
Where adenomatous polyps are present in significant numbers, the conditions to consider are:
• FAP—classically over 100 polyps are present in the bowel
• attenuated FAP—presents with fewer than 100 polyps, with an older
onset, but still has a high risk of progressing to bowel cancer and the
risk for upper GI malignancy. Both of these conditions are autosomal
dominant and due to mutations in the same gene, but the site of the
mutation determines the phenotype
• MYH-associated polyposis—this is an autosomal recessive
predisposition to adenomatous bowel polyps, so usually presents with
a history of bowel cancer in siblings within the family. The majority of
affected individuals have one or both of two common mutations within
the MYH gene, so testing is relatively straightforward.
More commonly, a bowel cancer predisposition is marked only by the
familial aggregation of bowel cancer cases, with fewer polyps, and hence is
known as hereditary non-polyposis colon cancer (HNPCC), also referred
to as Lynch syndrome. In most cases where a genetic predisposition is
proven, this is due to a mutation in one of the mismatch repair genes (as
described previously), MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, or PMS2. The genetic defect
leads to defective mismatch repair of DNA, which leads to an increase
in the mutation rate and faster progression of bowel polyps to cancers.
Another consequence is microsatellite instability, which can be observed
in the laboratory in tumour tissue and can be used to identify patients in
whom a mismatch repair mutation is more likely.
Thus, for individuals concerned about their family history of bowel cancer, the family history can be assessed. Those with only one affected relative over the age of 45 years, or two relatives who are over 55 years, or on
different sides of the family may be reassured. Where the family appears
to be at ‘moderate’ risk (one relative under 45 years, two relatives where
one is under 55 years at diagnosis, or three affected relatives at any age),
permission is sought to access tumour tissue from one of the affected relatives. If this shows microsatellite instability, it may indicate a mismatch repair
mutation is present. In this situation, the tumour tissue is also tested to see
if there is loss of expression of the mismatch repair proteins, which may
help guide which gene to analyse first, and, if blood is available from the
affected individual, the commonly involved mismatch repair genes are analysed (MLH1 and MSH2). The tumour may also be tested for the common
BRAF mutation (V600E) found in sporadic bowel cancers with MLH1 promoter hypermethylation and microsatellite instability, as finding this mutation would make it unlikely a germline mutation would be found.

Bowel cancer family history

Where the family fits the ‘Amsterdam criteria’ for a high risk of harbouring a mutation, the mismatch repair genes may be analysed, irrespective
of the tumour analysis. (These families have at least three individuals with
bowel cancer in two generations of the family, where at least one is affected
under the age of 50 years, and familial polyposis excluded.)
If a mutation is found, then relatives can be offered genetic testing to
guide surveillance. In the absence of a genetic test, those families thought
to be at ‘moderately’ increased risk are offered colonoscopic surveillance,
which may involve a single examination at presentation and a repeat at
the age of 55 years, whereas those who are thought to be at ‘high risk’
of harbouring a predisposition gene (or known gene carriers) are offered
2-yearly colonoscopies from the age of 25 or 35 years, depending on the
family history. For families with known mismatch repair genes, the risk of
endometrial cancer (40%+) in the women must be remembered, and surveillance for other cancers may also be appropriate (e.g. gastric cancer in
the over 50s).

29

30

Chapter 2

The genetics of cancer

Low-risk alleles
More recently, Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) have identified low-risk alleles in the population. These are often single-nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs) that may occur anywhere in the genome. They
are often found in promoter regions of genes or in introns that had not
been previously linked to a familial disease. Interestingly, in colon cancer,
many of these polymorphisms have been found in established oncogenic
or tumour suppressor pathways. For example, polymorphisms have been
found in promoters or introns of the MYC oncogene and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signalling pathway genes. Importantly, genetically engineered mouse models (GEMMs) have shown that manipulation of the SNPs
can have profound impacts on tumourigenesis, suggesting that even these
low-risk alleles could be very important in the initiation and progression of
cancer. For diseases such as colon cancer, it may be that people carrying
disease-associated SNPs should also undergo screening.

Chapter 3

Surgical oncology
Multidisciplinary approach to cancer 32
General principles 33
Diagnosis and staging 34
Curative surgery 36
Palliative surgery 38
Surgery for metastatic disease 42
Prophylactic cancer surgery 46

31

32

Chapter 3

Surgical oncology

Multidisciplinary approach to cancer
The management of cancer involves a number of clinical disciplines. The
majority requires a variety of diagnostic tests, including some form of pathological confirmation, and imaging investigations to assess the extent of the
disease. Most patients have a ° surgical intervention. The development
of more effective additional therapies for cancer, such as chemotherapy,
radiotherapy, hormonal therapy, has made the overall management of cancer very complex.
No single clinician has all the skills needed to treat all cancers. This has led
to the development of multidisciplinary teams (MDTs) that deal with certain
types of cancer. Many professions allied to medicine have major roles to
play in these teams (e.g. physiotherapists, stoma nurses, counsellors). The
team may include individuals who are not directly involved in the treatment
at presentation but have adjunctive roles at some stage in the course of the
illness (e.g. palliative care). The composition of the team will vary considerably between institutions, and disease states. There must be a sufficient
range of expertise to allow for informed discussion of the management
policy for individual patients. The team’s various roles include:
• planning diagnostic and staging procedures, the ° treatment approach,
and any adjuvant therapy to be delivered pre- or post-operatively
• preparing patients physically and psychologically for anti-cancer therapy
and subsequent follow-up
• providing information on treatment, prognosis, side effects, and any
other pertinent matters (e.g. stoma care)
• efficiently planning and delivering surgery, radiotherapy, and
chemotherapy, as appropriate
• aiding rehabilitation from the illness
• providing appropriate follow-up care
• ensuring that the transition from curative to palliative care is
appropriately managed
• promoting recruitment to appropriate clinical trials.
Management within such a team structure results in better outcomes for
patients. Studies demonstrate survival advantages, but, equally importantly,
patients also have functional, psychological, cosmetic, and quality of life
(QoL) benefits.
The team should also formally audit its procedures and performance to
ensure continued development of the team and to allow for comparisons
with other teams.

General principles

General principles
Surgery is the mainstay of treatment and the principal hope of cure for
most patients with solid tumours. Surgery is most effective when cancer is
localized, but long-term survival is now anticipated for some tumour types
exhibiting metastatic disease at presentation.
Surgery has five main roles in the management of cancer patients:
• diagnosis and staging
• curative surgery
• palliative surgery
• surgery for metastatic disease
• prophylactic surgery.
An understanding of tumour biology is essential in the planning of surgical
treatment for cancer and in considering if surgery is indeed appropriate.
The behaviour of solid tumours is diverse, and the implications for surgery are often paradoxical. The three principal methods of spread are:
• direct infiltration
• lymphatic
• blood-borne.
Most cancers disseminate by all three methods, to varying degrees,
although one method of spread may predominate. Breast and colorectal
cancers exhibit both blood and lymphatic spread, whereas cancers arising in the upper GI tract and the upper airways metastasize predominantly
via the lymphatics. Even cancers arising from the same cell type behave
differently—papillary and follicular tumours of the thyroid give rise to
lymphatic and haematogenous metastases, respectively. Different surgical
approaches will therefore be required, depending on the tumour type and
behaviour.
Another important consideration is the relationship between the tumour
and the host inflammatory response. There is accumulating evidence of
the importance of considering such an interaction for many solid organ
tumours, in terms of predicting outcome and possibly the need for adjuvant
therapies.

33

34

Chapter 3

Surgical oncology

Diagnosis and staging
Improvements seen in radiological imaging techniques, including ultrasound,
computerized tomography (CT), and MRI, have allowed for better localization and staging of malignant disease. Such developments have made it possible for radiologists to more accurately perform core biopsies or fine-needle
aspiration (FNA) cytology sampling to confirm suspected diagnoses.
Endoscopic techniques are another well-utilized means of obtaining tissue
(cytology, biopsy, and brushings) for histopathological analysis. Endoscopic
ultrasound (EUS) now provides a further avenue for the acquisition of tissue samples for cytological or histopathological examination. The technique
is also useful for cystic lesions such as those seen in the pancreas, and analysis of aspirated fluid can help to distinguish lesions with malignant potential,
thus allowing their surgical treatment.
Core biopsies are often preferred and are especially useful in tumours,
such as breast cancer, as they provide adequate tissue for the assessment of
the architecture and receptor status.
Whilst FNA and core biopsy techniques often confirm the cancer diagnosis, it is important to bear in mind the possibility of tumour seeding. Tumour
seeding is more commonly seen following core biopsy than FNA, and for
specific tumour types, e.g. soft tissue sarcomas. Here, the needle track
should be placed after discussion with the surgeon, so that the needle track
will be excised in the definitive surgery.
In general, due to the risk of tumour seeding, transcoelomic biopsies
should not be performed until discussion has occurred at an MDT appropriate to the suspected tumour type. Furthermore, they are not usually
performed when a radiological diagnosis is deemed adequate, in particular,
if surgical resection with cure is possible, e.g. colorectal liver metastases.
In order to reduce the risk of seeding, ablation of the track may be performed following the biopsy.
Examination of cytology samples requires an experienced cytopathologist.
The surgeon may still be required to perform either an incisional or excisional biopsy. In the former, compromise to the future definitive operation
must not occur. The excisional biopsy should, in many cases, be carried out
by the appropriate specialist who will be performing the definitive surgery.
This applies particularly in melanoma where there is controversy over the
excision margins (depending upon the depth of the melanoma). A suspicious lesion should be excised for histology with a 2mm margin.
When taking biopsies for diagnostic purposes, the surgeon needs to be
in close consultation with his pathologist, as some tissue samples will need
to be sent ‘fresh’ if specialized staining techniques, electron microscopy, or
cytogenetic analyses are required. This applies in the case of lymph node
excision for the subclassification of lymphoma where the tissue should
always be sent fresh to the haematology laboratory.
Laparoscopy is now accepted as being an excellent tool for the diagnosis
and staging of malignancy. Whilst image-directed biopsy can give a diagnosis in a large proportion of patients, some areas are not easily amenable to image-directed biopsy, and instead laparoscopic biopsy will often
provide the answer. This can include tumours in the mesentery and the
retroperitoneal space.

Diagnosis and staging

When laparoscopic evaluation is performed as part of the staging for
upper abdominal malignancies, peritoneal washing cytology may be performed. A total of 500mL of warm normal saline is instilled, and the abdomen gently agitated for 5min. The fluid is then aspirated into a dedicated
suction chamber and sent for cytological analysis. The detection of tumour
cells is a negative prognostic indicator.
A further benefit of laparoscopic diagnosis in staging is the use of intraoperative ultrasonography via the laparoscope. This allows the detection
and biopsy of masses (and staging) in solid organs such as the liver. Lesions
smaller than 1cm can be identified and biopsied, and even treated by laparoscopic ablation techniques. The addition of Doppler ultrasound allows the
identification of vascular structures and their avoidance (intraoperatively).

Further reading
Al-Haddad M, El Hajj II, Eloubeidi MA (2010). Endoscopic ultrasound for the evaluation of cystic
lesions of the pancreas. JOP 11, 299–309.
Lee SD, Ryu KW, Eom BW, Lee JH, Kook MC, Kim YW (2012). Prognostic significance of peritoneal
washing cytology in patients with gastric cancer. Br J Surg 99, 397–403.
Puli SR, Bechtold ML, Buxbaum JL, Eloubeidi MA (2013). How good is endoscopic
ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration in diagnosing the correct etiology for a solid pancreatic
mass?: A meta-analysis and systematic review. Pancreas 42, 20–6.

35

36

Chapter 3

Surgical oncology

Curative surgery
The long-term outcome following any cancer surgery depends on the combination of the tumour type and the stage at presentation. Survival rates
for some cancers have improved due to earlier presentation following public awareness and screening programmes, e.g. breast and cervical cancers.
Improving surgical and anaesthetic techniques mean more extensive resections can now be carried out at low risk, in terms of morbidity and mortality, often with excellent functional results, e.g. limb-preserving surgery
for osteosarcoma; many liver resections today require little (or no) blood
transfusion. However, this is not a uniform development, and, for tumours
of the central nervous system (CNS), vital structures continue to inhibit the
extent of resection.
For some cancers, results are good—the 5-year survival rate in breast
cancer is over 80%, and, for large bowel cancer in the US, it approaches
70%. Unfortunately, the cure rate for pancreatic and gastric cancers remains
low, with 5-year survival figures being <10% in Europe. Lung cancer patients
still have an overall survival (OS) of only 15% at 5 years.
In addition to being related to tumour biology, long-term survival is also
governed by the ability to obtain microscopically negative tumour margins
at surgery.
•	The limits of cancer clearance are extremely important, and close
cooperation between the surgeon and the pathologist is essential. For
example, wide local excision for breast cancer needs to have a clearance
of between 0.5 and 1cm, and most patients require radiotherapy,
following partial mastectomy, to prevent local recurrence. However,
there is still controversy about clearance in breast cancer, with some
surgeons accepting a few mm.
• Similarly, it is now recognized that, in colorectal cancer surgery, a 5cm
limit proximally and a 2cm limit distally are required for adequate
clearance. It is important that limits of excision are not compromised in
the learning curve of laparoscopic colonic resection.
•	Total mesorectal excision is essential to prevent local recurrence in the
pelvis after rectal cancer. There is now clear evidence of the benefit of
specialization in rectal cancer surgery.
• Cancers that are prone to multiple foci require consideration of wider
resection to excise all of the tumour. This occurs, e.g. in papillary
carcinoma of the thyroid gland where total thyroidectomy in some
cases is appropriate. Again, this is a controversial area, with total
lobectomy being accepted for good prognosis of small papillary cancers.
•	There is now increasing evidence that, in major oncological surgery, the
procedure should be carried out by a specialist in a unit doing a high
volume of that particular procedure. The evidence is now growing that
this applies to rectal, oesophageal, gastric, and pancreatic cancers.
The use of laparoscopic techniques in the definitive treatment of malignancy
is evolving. Whilst there was early evidence that this approach was associated with decreased post-operative morbidity and a more rapid return
to work, there were concerns regarding oncological adequacy. Long-term

Curative surgery

follow-up in colorectal cancer has shown comparable negative margin rates,
similar lymph node yields, and, most importantly, equal disease-free survival
(DFS) outcomes.
Similarly, equivalence has been reported for renal, prostatic, and gynaecological cancers, and the data for gastric, oesophageal, pancreatic, and
hepatic malignancies are emerging.

Further reading
Alexakis N, Halloran C, Raraty M, Ghaneh P, Sutton R, Neoptolemos JP (2004). Current standards
of surgery for pancreatic cancer. Br J Surg 91, 1410–27.
Carpelan-Holmstrom M, Nordling S, Pukkala E, et al. (2005). Does anyone survive pancreatic ductal
adenocarcinoma? Gut 54, 385–7.
Hogan AM, Kennelly R, Winter DC (2009). Volume–outcome analysis in rectal cancer. A plea for
enquiring, evidence and evolution. Eur J Surg Oncol 35, 111–12.
Lo CM, Fan ST (2004). Liver transplantation for hepatocellular carcinoma. Br J Surg 91, 131–3.
Ryder S (2005). Predicting survival in early hepatocellular carcinoma. Gut 54, 328–9.
Thirlwell C, Nathan P (2008). Melanoma management. BMJ 337, 1345–8.
Thompson JF, Scolyer RA, Kefford RF (2005). Cutaneous melanoma. Lancet 365, 687–701.
Tsang WWC, Chung CC, Kwok SY, Li MKW (2005). Minimally invasive surgery for rectal cancer.
Surg Clin North Am 85, 61–73.
Tsao H, Atkins MB, Sober AJ (2004). Medical progress—management of cutaneous melanoma.
N Engl J Med 351, 998–1012.
Wu CC, Cheng SB, Ho WM, Chen JT, Liu TJ, P’eng FK (2005). Liver resection for hepatocellular
carcinoma in patients with cirrhosis. Br J Surg 92, 348–55.

37

38

Chapter 3

Surgical oncology

Palliative surgery
Surgical palliation falls into several different categories, requiring a broad
range of expertise and knowledge. A patient’s life expectancy may vary from
weeks to years, depending on their underlying tumour, and the surgeon must
know when not to operate and when to operate. Indeed, it is said, ‘Good
surgeons know how to operate, better ones when to operate, and the best
when not to operate.’ When an operation is indicated in the palliative setting, it is important to decide what the optimal procedure is on an individual
patient basis. Discussion at a multidisciplinary meeting is therefore essential.

Bowel obstruction
Patients with cancer may present with, or develop, obstruction of the small
or large bowel.
Bowel obstruction is most commonly seen for colon cancer where
obstruction of the colon may be due to a resectable ° or an advanced
pelvic mass. With the now almost universal use of CT imaging, such patients
are now usually differentiated preoperatively, but occasionally confirmation
of incurability will sometimes be made at the time of laparotomy. If it is
not possible to excise the ° tumour, then a colostomy or ileostomy should
be considered for decompression of the obstruction. For patients with
left-sided tumours, an endoscopic stent placement is an appropriate palliative measure for patients with inoperable tumours, in particular, if the patient
is unsuitable for surgery due to co-morbidities. However, it must be recalled
that there is a 4% risk of perforation and 12% incidence of stent migration.
The management of the obstructed ovarian cancer patient can be a more
difficult decision, as some patients will be suitable for debulking surgery
which may provide good long-term palliation, in particular, when combined
with chemotherapy. Such operations are usually a combined approach,
involving a colorectal surgeon and a gynaecologist.
Many patients will have multiple obstruction sites, with the small and large
bowel studded with tumours on the serosal surface. Such patients are often
difficult to palliate. Sometimes, an internal bypass is possible; a proximal
stoma may be indicated, but frequently there is no surgical option.
A more detailed account of the management of obstruction is provided
in Chapter 35.

Fistulae
Fistulae may arise in one of two settings in the patient with cancer. The first
is as a result of the tumour itself locally invading an adjacent organ, and the
second occurs in patients who have undergone prior radiotherapy, with the
majority of such fistulae being related to pelvic tumours.
Common fistula types include: rectovaginal, enterovaginal, colovesical, and vesicovaginal. Fistulae may also develop between loops of bowel
(enteroenteric) or between the bowel and skin (enterocutaneous).
Preoperative assessment is important to determine the exact nature of
the fistula present, including its origin and course. In the palliative setting, a
proximal end stoma is the treatment of choice if definitive surgery is not
possible, as it should reduce the volume, and hence patient distress, associated with the stoma. A covered stent, delivered endoscopically, can be
considered for patients with a colovesical fistula.

Palliative surgery

Jaundice
A number of options are available for the patient requiring palliation of jaundice. Currently, the majority of patients are considered for stenting which is
accomplished by means of endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreatography
(ERCP) for lesions of the periampullary region. For cholangiocarcinomas
arising at the hilum, ERCP may be successful, but percutaneous transhepatic
cholangiography (PTC)-guided stenting may be required, sometimes in combination with ERCP. Metallic stents are preferred if the predicted survival is
in excess of 3 months, as plastic stents rapidly block, leading to recurrent
jaundice and cholangitis, requiring repeated hospitalization.
There are also operative options, including hepatojejunostomy or choledochojejunostomy, for the palliation of periampullary tumours, as these
procedures offer good palliation in medically fit patients. With the advent
of endoscopic stenting, operative palliation of jaundice fell out of vogue;
however, they are now being performed laparoscopically in many specialist centres. A recent trial has demonstrated a shorter overall hospital stay
and decreased morbidity for the surgical palliation of jaundice, compared
to endoscopic stenting. Selected patients with inoperable hilar tumours will
be best treated by segment III biliary enteric bypass, and so all such patients
should be discussed in a hepato-pancreato-biliary (HPB) MDT.
A more detailed account of the management of obstructive jaundice is
provided in Chapter 35.

Ascites
The treatment of malignant ascites includes sodium restriction, diuresis, and
serial paracentesis—the typical treatments used in hepatic failure-associated
ascites. For selected cases refractory to conventional medical treatment,
a peritoneal drain may be utilized, or a peritoneal–venous (Le Veen or
Denver) shunt may be inserted to relieve symptoms. These may be of particular benefit for those with ascites due to ovarian or breast cancer but
appear to be of little benefit in those with GI malignancies. Careful preoperative assessment should be undertaken to ensure that the ascites is not loculated and that the tumour is not mucinous; otherwise, the shunt will occlude
rapidly. The shunts are usually inserted under local anaesthetic and sedation,
with >50% of patients achieving good long-term palliation. Post-operative
coagulopathy may be a problem, as are shunt occlusion and infection.

Pain
The management of pain in the patient with cancer may be difficult and
requires careful liaison with the palliative care team and Macmillan nurses.
There are a number of options open to surgeons to help patients with
pain, depending on the aetiology:
• surgical debulking of large, slow-growing tumours (e.g. intra-abdominal,
soft tissue sarcomas) is possible in otherwise fit patients where the
expected morbidity of the procedure is deemed acceptable
• stabilization of pathological fractures and prophylactic pinning of bone
metastases involving >50% of the cortex
• neurosurgical approaches for pain control, including cordotomy, are now
rarely performed with the advent of more effective analgesia regimens

39

40

Chapter 3

Surgical oncology

• thoracoscopic splanchnectomy was used for intractable pain 2° to
pancreatic cancer. However, the advent of EUS-guided coeliac plexus
blocks has reduced its utilization.

Gastrointestinal bleeding
For patients in whom haemostatic manipulation fails to control bleeding, a
wide array of endoscopic and radiological techniques are available to stop
bleeding from benign and malignant causes in incurable cancer patients,
including injection sclerotherapy and laser coagulation, and arteriographic
embolization. Surgery should be reserved for those with a life expectancy
of 3 months or more, for whom other methods fail.

Cytoreductive surgery
In some patients, extensive local disease may prevent the removal of all
disease by surgery, but partial resection is still appropriate. This applies
particularly to ovarian cancer where subsequent chemotherapy can lead to
good results, even in advanced disease.

Palliative resection of the primary tumour
Up to 10% of patients with breast cancer will present with metastatic disease; patients with visceral metastases have a poor prognosis, but patients
with bone metastases have a median survival of over 2 years. Resection of
the ° tumour to achieve loco-regional control will often improve patients’
QoL, preventing fungation or uncontrolled axillary metastases.
Palliative resection of gastric cancers may be considered in patients with
gastric outlet obstruction or persisting anaemia despite repeat transfusion.
Likewise, resection of a colorectal ° may be considered, even in the presence of inoperable liver metastases, to minimize the risk of bleeding, perforation, or obstruction (especially the latter).
Developments in laparoscopic surgery have meant that many palliative
procedures can now be performed using minimally invasive techniques, thus
reducing morbidity and improving the QoL.

Further reading
Avantumde AA, Parsons SL (2007). Pattern and prognostic factors in patients with malignant
ascites: a retrospective study. Ann Oncol 18, 945–9.
Baron TH (2001). Expandable metal stents for the treatment of cancerous obstruction of the gastrointestinal tract. N Engl J Med 344, 1681–7.
Chao TC, Wang CS, Chen MF (1999). Gastroduodenal perforation in cancer patients.
Hepatogastroenterology 46, 2878–81.
Helyer LK, Law CH, Butler M, Last LD, Smith AJ, Wright FC (2007). Surgery as a bridge to palliative chemotherapy in patients with malignant bowel obstruction from colorectal cancer. Ann Surg
Oncol 14, 1264–71.
Hill J (2008). Stenting and colorectal cancer. Br J Surg 95, 1195–6.
Mittal A, Windsor J, Woodfield J, Casey P, Lane M (2004). Matched study of three methods for palliation of malignant pyloroduodenal obstruction. Br J Surg 91, 205–9.
Randall TC, Rubin SC (2000). Management of intestinal obstruction in the patient with ovarian cancer. Oncology 14, 1159–63.
Rose PG, Nerenstone S, Brady MF (2004). Secondary surgical cytoreduction for advanced ovarian
carcinoma. N Engl J Med 351, 2489–97.
Sangisetty SL, Miner TJ (2012). Malignant ascites: a review of prognostic factors, pathophysiology and
therapeutic measures. World J Gastrointest Surg 4, 87–95.
Zanon C, Grosso M, Apra F, et al. (2002). Palliative treatment of malignant refractory ascites by
positioning of Denver peritoneovenous shunt. Tumori 88, 123–7.

Palliative surgery

41

42

Chapter 3

Surgical oncology

Surgery for metastatic disease
In principle, patients with a single site of metastatic disease and the occasional patient with multiple sites of metastases may be considered as candidates for resection. The ° location of the tumour and the location of
the metastatic disease are key in making such decisions. Sites where limited
metastases may be resected include the lung, liver, and brain, with prolonged survival seen in carefully selected patients, following careful assessment and discussion at an MDT.

Lymphatic clearance
• May be curative for some cancers.
• May avoid the need for adjuvant chemotherapy or radiotherapy (avoids
the need for axillary radiotherapy in breast cancer).
• Useful in:
• breast cancer
• colorectal cancer
• head and neck cancer
• penile cancer.
• No role for prophylactic nodal dissection has been seen for melanoma.
•	There is a role for sentinel node dissection in breast cancer and
melanoma. In the UK, the ALMANAC (2004) trial showed benefit in
breast cancer. Virtually all breast surgeons now perform sentinel node
surgery in the UK and US.

Liver metastases
• Metastases to the liver are blood-borne and usually through the portal
venous system.
• Most metachronous liver metastases are incidental findings on
post-operative surveillance CT scans. Further assessment of the liver
may include MRI, and CT-positron emission tomography (CT-PET) is
useful in excluding extra-hepatic metastases.
• Greatest experience is with 2° arising from colorectal °.
•	There are no randomized trial data to support liver resection; however,
the mean survival of untreated patients is 16 months, whereas the
5-year survival for selected patients is 750% in contemporary series
(colonic 2°), with a <1% operative mortality but 30% morbidity.
•	The use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimens has increased resectability
rates by downsizing metastases and also improved post-resection survival.
•	A good idea of prognosis is provided by the Fong score, in which a point
is given for each adverse factor: size >5cm; node-positive °; >1 tumour;
disease-free interval <12 months; CEA >200ng/mL. The median survival
varied from 74 months for a score of 0 to 22 months for a score of 5.
•	Repeated liver resection is possible (including repeated laparoscopic
resection), with results of further resection as good as the first if the
same selection criteria are applied.
• Staged resection is also possible, with hypertrophy of the remnant liver
encouraged by portal vein embolization.
•	The benefit of liver resection for non-colorectal cancer is variable.
• Liver resection for neuroendocrine liver metastases gives a 5-year
survival of up to 50%.

Surgery for metastatic disease

• Up to 60% 5-year survival has been reported for the resection of liver
2° from the genitourinary tract (including testis, ovary, kidney, uterus).
•	Resection of liver 2° from other ° sites is unproven, with only limited
or no benefit for breast and melanoma 2° in highly selected patients.
• Laparoscopic liver resection is now increasingly used, and, together with
enhanced recovery programmes, post-operative stay and time to return
to normal activities are reduced.
Other treatment options
•	Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is now increasingly used in the treatment
of metastatic disease in the liver in selected patients.
• Microwave ablation is a more recent development and may have
advantages over RFA.
•	Injection of alcohol and cryotherapy are now less frequently utilized, in
particular, for liver metastases, although they are still used for HCC.

Lung metastases
• Spread to the lung is via lymphatics or blood-borne.
•	The lung is the second commonest site for metastases. In one-fifth of
patients, the lung is the sole site of metastases.
•	As is the case with liver metastases, the majority of lung 2° are
incidental findings on post-operative surveillance CT scans. Again,
CT-PET is useful in excluding extra-thoracic disease.
• Criteria for lung resection include: ° tumour controlled, a medically
fit patient, and metastatic disease limited to the lung—although some
centres are now accepting patients with lung and liver metastases from
colorectal ° for sequential resections.
• Metastasectomy can be performed with low morbidity and mortality,
and repeatedly.
•	Thoracoscopic techniques are now commonplace.
•	The 5-year survival after resection of lung metastases varies according
to the ° lesion: osteosarcoma (40%); soft tissue sarcoma (25–40%);
colorectal (35%); renal (40%); gynaecological (35%); melanoma (20%);
germ cell tumours (86%).

Bone metastases
• Presentation is usually that of a pathological fracture.
•	The breast and prostate are the commonest ° sites, followed by the
lung, thyroid, and renal cancers.
• Mean survival is 3 months with lung cancer metastases to over 4 years in
° of breast origin.
•	Investigations—MRI and CT-PET are the most accurate investigations,
followed by bone scanning.
•	Internal fixation is useful if the metastasis is:
• in a weight-bearing bone, especially if the lesion is >2.5cm or
involves the circumference
• lesion is painful after radiotherapy
• will improve mobilization and nursing care
• bone quality will support fixation.
•	In the case of a spinal metastasis, consideration must be given to
stabilizing the spine and preventing cord compression.

43

44

Chapter 3

Surgical oncology

Treatment options
• Stabilization may be accomplished in one of two ways:
•	Internal fixation—techniques include plates, intramedullary nails, or
prosthetic replacement of metaphyseal lesions.
•	External fixation—occasionally external fixation is used for patients
with extensive localized disease that cannot be immobilized by
internal methods.
•	Rarely, amputation is appropriate for fungating tumours, recurrent
infections, and intractable pain.
• Minimally invasive treatment of metastatic bone lesions with
radiographically guided percutaneous injection of bone cement is
currently used in selected cases such as spinal metastases.

Brain metastases
• Common—up to 10% of cancer patients have brain 2°.
•	The 5-year cumulative incidence of brain metastases is 16%, 10%, 7%,
5%, and 1% for patients with lung cancer, renal cell cancer, melanoma,
breast cancer, and colorectal cancer, respectively. The lung and breast
are the commonest ° sites.
• Brain metastases are blood-borne with the distribution of brain
metastases reflecting blood flow—80% of lesions are found in the
cerebrum, 15% in the cerebellum, and 5% in the brainstem.
• Presentations include headache, focal weakness, altered mental status,
and epilepsy.
•	Haemorrhage within brain metastases may cause an acute
neurological state.
• Diagnosis is by MRI, as this identifies smaller 2° than CT.
• Mean survival without therapy is 2 months, 3 months with steroid
therapy, and 6 months with radiotherapy.
• Surgery is useful to confirm diagnosis, relieve pressure effects, improve
local control, and improve survival in selected cases.
• Poor prognostic indicators include—uncontrolled systemic disease, poor
general medical condition, infra-tentorial location, poor neurological
status, and a short interval from the diagnosis of the ° tumour to the
diagnosis of the brain metastases.
•	Tumour deposits in the thalamus, brainstem, and basal ganglia are
usually irresectable.
•	Resection of a single 2° can lead to prolonged survival (melanoma
7 months, lung cancer 12 months, renal cell cancer 10 months, breast
cancer 1 year, and colon cancer 9 months). Occasionally, resection of
multiple metastases is worthwhile.

Malignant pleural effusion
• Surgery is rarely indicated, as this can usually be managed medically.
•	Occasional role for thoracoscopy to drain fluid, break down adhesions,
biopsy the pleura, and instill sclerosing agents such as talc or bleomycin.
•	Rarely, pleurectomy is performed in malignant mesothelioma, but there
is significant morbidity and the mortality is 10%. The procedure can only
be performed in very selected patients (for further information, see
Chapter 13).

Surgery for metastatic disease

Malignant pericardial effusion
In selected patients, the creation of a pericardial window compares favourably with pericardial percutaneous drainage.

Further reading
Abu Hilal M, McPhail MJW, Zeidan B, et al. (2008). Laparoscopic versus open left lateral hepatic
sectionectomy. Eur J Surg Oncol 34, 1285–8.
Assal M, Zanone X, Peter A (2000). Osteosynthesis of metastatic lesions of the proximal femur
with a solid femoral nail and interlocking spinal plate inserted without reaming. J Orthop Trauma
14, 394–7.
Barry JM, Weber WP, Sacchini V (2012). The evolving role of axillary lymph node dissection in the
modern era of breast cancer management. Surg Oncol 21, 143–5.
Cheung G, Chow E, Holden L (2006). Percutaneous vertebroplasty in patients with intractable pain
from osteoporotic or metastatic fractures. Can Assoc Rad J 57, 13–21.
Erhunmwunsee L, D’Amico TA (2009). Surgical management of pulmonary metastases. Ann Thorac
Surg 88, 2052–60.
Folprecht G, Gruenberger T, Bechstein WO, et al. (2010). Tumour response and secondary resectability of colorectal liver metastases following neoadjuvant chemotherapy with cetuximab: the
CELIM randomised phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 11, 38–47.
Fong Y, Fortner J, Sun RL, Brennan MF, Blumgart LH (1999). Clinical score for predicting recurrence
after hepatic resection for metastatic colorectal cancer: analysis of 1001 consecutive cases. Ann
Surg 230, 309–18.
Fuchs B, Ossendorf D, Leerapun T, Sim FH (2008). Intercalary segmental reconstruction after bone
tumour resection. Eur J Surg Oncol 34, 1271–6.
Inoue M, Kotake Y, Nakagawa K, Fujiwara K, Fukuhara K, Yasumitsu T (2000). Surgery for pulmonary
metastases from colorectal carcinoma. Ann Thorac Surg 70, 380–3.
Kaibara N, Sumi K, Yonakawa M, et al. (1990). Does extensive dissection of lymph nodes improve
the result of surgical treatment of gastric cancer? Am J Surg 159, 218–21.
Ko AS, Lefor AT (2005). Laparoscopic surgery in cancer. In: Devita VT, Hellman S, Rosenberg SA,
eds. Principles and practice of oncology, 7th edn. Philadelphia: Lippincott, pp. 253–66.
Lehmann K, Rickenbacher A, Weber A, Pestalozzi BC, Clavien PA (2012). Chemotherapy before
liver resection of colorectal metastases: friend or foe? Ann Surg 255, 237–47.
Pathak S, Jones R, Tang JM, et al. (2011). Ablative therapies for colorectal liver metastases: a systematic review. Colorectal Dis 13, e252–65.
Prasad D, Schiff D (2005). Malignant spinal cord compression. Lancet Oncol 6, 15–24.
Sciubba DM, Gokaslan ZL, Suk I, et al. (2007). Positive and negative prognostic variables for patients
undergoing open surgery for metastatic breast disease. Eur Spine J 16, 1659–67.
Thompson JF, Scolyer RA, Kefford RF (2005). Cutaneous melanoma. Lancet 365, 687–701.
Vogelsang H, Haas S, Hierholzer C, Berger U, Siewert JR, Präuer H (2005). Factors influencing survival after resection of pulmonary metastases from colorectal cancer. Br J Surg 91, 1066–71.
Wilkinson AN, Viola R, Brandege MD (2008). Managing skeletal related events resulting from bone
metastases. BMJ 337, 1101–5.
Wong SL, Balch CM, Hurley P, et al. (2012). American Society of Clinical Oncology; Society of Surgical
Oncology. Sentinel lymph node biopsy for melanoma: American Society of Clinical Oncology and
Society of Surgical Oncology joint clinical practice guideline. J Clin Oncol 30, 2912–18.
Yim AP, Ho JK (1995). Video assisted subxiphoid pericardiectomy. J Laparoendosc Surg 5, 193–8.

45

46

Chapter 3

Surgical oncology

Prophylactic cancer surgery
Surgery has a very definite role in the prevention of cancer in selected
patients. There are a number of conditions, either acquired or inherited, in
which preventative surgery has a major role after careful counselling of the
patient. These include:
• orchidopexy or occasionally orchidectomy in the patient with a
maldescended testis
• total colectomy with pouch procedure, in patients with polyposis coli
• the occasional patient with ulcerative colitis involving the entire colon
(over 10 years) and who has changes of dysplasia on mucosal biopsies
may require a total colectomy
• patients at risk of medullary cell carcinoma of the thyroid gland, who
have the multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) syndrome (type 2),
require total thyroidectomy at an early age
• patients carrying the BRCA1 gene may require prophylactic bilateral
mastectomy (and reconstruction). With the recent approval of
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) (2013) of
tamoxifen as a prophylactic drug in these patients with the BRCA1 and 2
mutations, there may be fewer patients requesting prophylactic breast
surgery—this remains to be seen. Similarly, patients with familial ovarian
cancer may require a laparoscopic oophorectomy.
The role of prophylactic cancer surgery is discussed further in Chapter 11.

Further reading
Depue RH, Pike MC, Henderson BE (1986). Cryptorchidism and testicular cancer. J Natl Cancer
Inst 77, 830–3.
Galmiche JP, Pallone F (2005). Barrett’s oesophagus and oesphageal adenocarcinoma. Gut 54 (Suppl
1), i1–i42.
Lynch HT (1996). Is there a role for prophylactic subtotal colectomy among hereditary non-polyposis
colorectal cancer germ line mutation carriers? Dis Colon Rectum 39, 109–10.
Lynch HT, De la Chapelle A (2003). Hereditary colorectal cancer. N Engl J Med 348, 919–32.
Machens A, Niccoli-Sire P, Hoeel J, et al. (2003). Early malignant progression of hereditary medullary
thyroid cancer. N Engl J Med 349, 1517–25.

Part 2

Principles of
treatment
4 Principles of radiation oncology
5 Principles of chemotherapy
6 Principles of symptom control in palliative care
7 Late effects of chemotherapy and radiotherapy
8 Hormone therapy
9 Targeted and biological therapies

49
83
111
157
169
179

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation
oncology
Introductionâ•‡ 50
Radiobiology of normal tissuesâ•‡ 52
Radiotherapy fractionationâ•‡ 56
External beam radiotherapyâ•‡ 60
Progress in external beam radiotherapyâ•‡ 64
Recent advances in external beam radiotherapyâ•‡ 66
Electron beam therapyâ•‡ 68
Brachytherapyâ•‡ 70
Intraoperative radiotherapyâ•‡ 74
The role of unsealed radionuclidesâ•‡ 76
Total body irradiationâ•‡ 80

49

50

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

Introduction
Radiation oncology or radiotherapy is the treatment of malignant disease
with ionizing radiation, most commonly using high-energy X-ray beams,
external beam radiotherapy (EBRT). This treatment modality has been
developed over the last 100 years, with considerable technical and clinical advances. It is now arguably the most important non-surgical cancer
therapy, used in >50% of all patients with malignant disease.

Historical perspective
1896
Discovery of X-rays
1898
Discovery of radium
1899
Successful treatment of skin cancer with X-rays
1915
Treatment of cervical cancer with radium implant
1922
Cure of laryngeal cancer with a course of X-ray therapy
1928
Roentgen defined as the unit of radiation exposure
1934
Dose fractionation principles proposed
1950s
Radioactive cobalt teletherapy (1MV energy)
1960s
Production of megavoltage X-rays by linear accelerators
1990s
Three-dimensional (3D) radiotherapy planning
2000s	Intensity-modulated (IMRT), image-guided (IGRT), and stereotactic radiotherapy
When X-rays pass through living tissue, energy is absorbed, resulting in the
ionization of a number of molecules, with the generation of fast-moving
electrons and free radicals. Biologically, the most important effects involve
DNA where radiation may cause damage, including breaks in the DNA
double helix.
The SI unit for dose of radiation is the gray (Gy), the energy absorbed
per unit mass ( J/kg).
The biological effects of radiotherapy relate to both the dose of radiation
and the timing of delivery of this treatment. Early clinical experience with
radiotherapy demonstrated that the delivery of small daily doses or fractions of radiotherapy allowed the administration of a larger total dose of
radiation than could be safely given as a single fraction, with preferential
reduction in normal tissue damage, whilst maintaining cell kill in malignant
tissue. This provides the basis of fractionated radiotherapy in modern radiation oncology, in which the majority of treatments are delivered using small
daily doses over consecutive days/weeks.
Fractionation is the division of a total dose of EBRT into small, often
once-daily doses. It results in preferential sparing of normal tissue
damage, allowing safe delivery of higher total doses of radiation, with
increased cancer cell kill.

Introduction

51

52

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

Radiobiology of normal tissues
The effects of radiation on tissues are generally mediated by one of two
mechanisms:
• loss of mature functional cells by apoptosis (programmed cell death,
usually within 24h of irradiation)
• loss of cellular reproductive capacity.
In general, these effects are dose-dependent; increasing doses of radiation produce greater cell loss. However, different cell types show large differences in radiosensitivity to either of these processes (see Table 4.1).
A limited number of cell types predominantly respond by apoptosis. These
include some cells of haemopoietic lineage and salivary glands. As most
tissues or organs have redundant functional cells, they may lose a significant
fraction of this cell population by apoptosis, without clinical impairment of
tissue function. Usually, lost cells are replaced by proliferation of surviving
stem cells or progenitor cells. These may be cells surviving in irradiated tissue or cells migrating from unirradiated margins.
Table 4.1 Radiosensitivity of normal tissues
Radiosensitivity

Tissue

Highly sensitive

Lymphocytes, germ cells

Moderately sensitive

Epithelial cells

Resistant

CNS, connective tissue

When cell loss occurs predominantly through loss of proliferative capacity,
the rate of cell renewal of a particular organ determines the time of appearance of tissue damage, varying from days to even years, after irradiation.
This has led to the arbitrary distinction of acute and late effects of radiation,
with acute effects being restricted to changes developing during a course of
radiotherapy of up to 8wk.

Acute effects of radiation
Acute effects involve mainly the skin, mucosa, and haemopoietic system.
Although the initial cell loss may be partly through apoptosis, the predominant effect is loss of reproductive capacity, interfering with the replacement
of lost cells. Thus, tissues with fast normal cellular turnover (epithelia of the
skin and gut, bone marrow) display effects of irradiation earliest.
The timing of radiation effects also depends on the rate of dose administration or fractionation. After a single dose of 10Gy to the abdomen, the
mucosal lining of the intestinal tract is depleted in a few days, whilst it may
take several weeks during a fractionated course of radiotherapy with daily
doses of 2Gy.
The speed of recovery of an acute reaction depends on the level of stem
cell depletion and varies from a few days to several months. If the number
of surviving stem cells is too low, severe epithelial damage may persist as
a chronic ulcer.

Radiobiology of normal tissues

Acute effects of radiotherapy
•	Occur within 8wk of treatment
• Skin, GI tract, bone marrow
• Severity depends on total dose of radiation and length of time over
which radiotherapy delivered
• Treatment doses selected, so that complete recovery is usual

Late effects of radiotherapy
Late effects occur predominantly in slowly proliferating tissues (such as the
lung, kidney, heart, liver, and CNS) but are not restricted to these slowly
renewing cell systems. For example, in the skin, in addition to the acute
epidermal reactions, late changes can develop several years later.
By definition, late radiation reactions are not apparent until a considerable time after irradiation, and these are not always predicted by the severity
of the acute reaction. Although the total dose of radiation is most important, another major determinant of the late radiation effect is the dose of
radiation per fraction of treatment.

Late effects of radiotherapy
• Lung, kidney, CNS, heart, connective tissue
• Severity depends on total dose of radiation and dose per fraction
(small dose per fraction protects)
• Recovery may be incomplete
The distinction between acute and late effects has important clinical implications. Since acute reactions are observed during the course of a conventionally fractionated radiotherapy schedule (72Gy per fraction, five times
a week), it is possible to reduce the total dose in the event of unexpectedly severe reactions, allowing a sufficient number of stem cells to survive.
Surviving stem cells will repopulate and restore the integrity of the rapidly
proliferating tissue, preventing irreparable damage.
If the overall treatment time is reduced, e.g. by the use of dose fractions
of >2Gy, the acute reactions may not reach maximal intensity until after
completion of treatment. This precludes adjustment of the dose regimen
to the severity of reactions. If intensive fractionation schedules reduce the
number of surviving stem cells to below the level needed for effective tissue
restoration, acute reactions may persist as chronic injury.

Radiation effects in specific tissues
Skin: acute effects
• Erythema ‘sunburn’ reaction:
• starting wk 2–3
• skin feels hot, itchy, sore.
• Desquamation:
• initially dry peeling of epidermis
• later moist and painful, with exposure of dermis
• usually heals within 6wk of treatment completion; residual
pigmentation fades over months.
•	Ulceration only if above reaction fails to heal.

53

54

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

Skin: late effects (months/years)
•	Atrophy.
• Fibrosis.
• Telangiectasia.
Oral mucosa
• Erythema starting wk 2–3.
• Painful ulceration wk 4–6.
•	Usually healed 4wk post-radiotherapy.
• Dry mouth may persist as late effect, depending on volume of salivary
glands irradiated and dose.
Gastrointestinal tract
•	Acute mucositis causes site-specific effects, starting wk 1–4.
•	Oesophagitis.
• Gastric/small bowel—5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT3)-mediated nausea
and vomiting.
• Distal small bowel/colon—diarrhoea.
• Rectum—tenesmus, mucous discharge, bleeding.
• Late effects—mucosal ulceration, fibrosis/obstruction, necrosis.
Central nervous system
• No acute reaction.
• 2–6 months—demyelination effects:
• brain—somnolence
• spinal cord—Lhermitte’s syndrome (shooting pains radiating down
limbs below the level of injury, sometimes provoked by spinal
flexion).
• 1–2 years—radiation necrosis (irreversible neurological deficit).
Lung
•	Acute deterioration of airways obstruction after large (e.g. 8Gy) single
fractions.
• 2–6 months—radiation pneumonitis:
• cough, dyspnoea, reversible X-ray changes
• may improve with steroid therapy.
• 6–12 months—irreversible lung fibrosis.
Kidney
• No acute response.
• Large reserve capacity; effects occur up to 10 years post-radiotherapy.
• Radiation nephropathy:
• proteinuria
• hypertension
• renal failure.
Heart
• 6–24 months—pericarditis (self-limiting).
• >2 years—cardiomyopathy and conduction blocks.

Radiobiology of normal tissues

Normal tissue tolerance to retreatment
Previously, it was believed that the late effects of radiotherapy were irreversible and treatment of an area of the body that had previously been
irradiated to high dose carried a risk of serious morbidity. Recent studies have shown that some tissues and organs have a substantial ability to
recover from subclinical radiation injury, allowing the retreatment of previously irradiated sites. The large capacity of the CNS for long-term regeneration allows the safe retreatment of parts of the brain or the spinal cord
and offers new clinical possibilities for tumours recurring in or near these
critical structures.

Carcinogenesis
DNA damage caused by radiotherapy may cause the development of a new
cancer. A 2° malignancy may occur 5–30 years after radiation exposure.
Leukaemias occur most frequently at 6–8 years after radiotherapy. Solid
cancers may occur after 10–30 years, and certain organs, such as the thyroid
and breast, are particularly susceptible to developing 2° cancer, especially
when exposure to radiation occurs in childhood/young adulthood.
• Induction of a second cancer is a rare, but serious, consequence of
exposure to ionizing radiation, often with a long latent period
• For oncology patients, such risks must always be weighed against the
risk of recurrence of cancer

Repair of radiation-induced DNA damage
Some of the DNA lesions caused by radiation can be repaired. When >1
fraction of radiotherapy is delivered daily, a minimum gap of 6–8h between
fractions is required to allow repair, without which excessive normal tissue
damage occurs. A number of rare hereditary defects in DNA repair exist,
and some of these predispose to cancer (e.g. ataxia–telangiectasia). The use
of conventional doses of radiotherapy to treat these cancers may result in
severe normal tissue reactions.

Hypoxia
Hypoxic cells are 2–3 times less sensitive to radiotherapy than oxygenated cells, and, in many cancers, there are areas of hypoxia relating to the
abnormal blood supply of the cancer. Anaemia may aggravate this. During
a fractionated course of radiotherapy, response of the cancer to treatment
may result in reoxygenation of areas of initial hypoxia, further enhancing
the tumour cell kill.

55

56

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

Radiotherapy fractionation
Objective
To choose, for a course of EBRT, the most appropriate combination of:
• total dose of radiotherapy (Gy) to achieve the required effect on
the cancer
• number of doses or fractions
• overall treatment time (determined by number of fractions per week).

Linear quadratic model
At clinically relevant doses, cancers and early-reacting tissues respond
to ionizing radiation with a linear relationship between the dose and cell
kill—the linear or α component. In the late-reacting tissues, a large part
of the effect of radiation is related to the square of the individual dose
given—the quadratic element or β component.
The important implication of the linear quadratic model is that, by giving radiotherapy in many small doses, damage in the late-reacting tissues
should be minimized, with little or no alteration in the response of the
early-reacting normal tissues and, most importantly, the cancer.

Number of treatments
Traditionally, radiotherapy has been delivered once daily, Monday to Friday,
and two different fractionation schedules are widely used.
Few large daily fractions
•	Advantages:
• fewer attendances
• sparing of resources
• fast tumour response
• reduces risk of tumour repopulation during treatment course.
• Disadvantages:
• limits total dose that can be safely delivered
• increases risk of late normal tissue damage
• reduced potential for reoxygenation
• total dose is usually inadequate to eradicate all cancer cells in target.
Many small daily fractions
•	Advantages:
• less severe acute reactions (longer treatment time)
• reduced late normal tissue damage
• maximizes total dose that can be delivered
• maximizes reoxygenation
• total dose may be sufficient to eradicate all cancer cells
• total dose may be reduced if unexpectedly severe acute reaction.
• Disadvantages:
• demand on resources and patient
• potential for repopulation of fast-growing tumours during
radiotherapy
• prolonged acute reaction may need supportive treatment, e.g.
dietary support for sore mouth/oesophagitis.

Radiotherapy fractionation

Radiosensitivity of tumours
Some tumours, such as lymphoma and seminoma, may be controlled by
doses (20–35Gy) 7 half of that required for many carcinomas (60–70Gy);
others, including gliomas and sarcomas, may be resistant to the highest
doses that can be safely delivered.

Tolerance doses of normal tissues
Some tissues are particularly radiosensitive and doses to them must be limited in order to minimize the risk of late damage. If 2Gy per fraction is given,
then tolerance doses are:
• Testis
2Gy
• Lens of the eye 10Gy
• Whole kidney
20Gy
• Whole lung
20Gy
• Spinal cord
50Gy
• Brain
60Gy
The risk of significant late and irreparable damage rises acutely above these
levels.

The inter-fraction interval
After a radiation treatment, some of the damage induced is irreversible, but
some can be repaired. With once-daily fractionation, nearly all of the repair
process is complete, before the next treatment is given. If >1 treatment is
given during a day, the duration of time between fractions should be at least
6h to allow as much repair as possible in normal tissues.

Hyperfractionation
By giving many fractions of <2Gy, a higher total radiation dose may be delivered without an increase in late normal tissue damage. In order to avoid
increasing the total time for the treatment course, treatment may be given
at weekends or more than once daily.

Overall treatment time and accelerated radiotherapy
There is now evidence that some cancers (e.g. lung cancer) have the capacity for rapid proliferation, with significant potential for growth during a conventional 6wk course of radiotherapy. By shortening the overall duration
of a treatment course, the opportunity for this to occur is reduced. This
approach may be combined with hyperfractionation by treating 2–3 times
daily to minimize late normal tissue damage.
In a randomized controlled trial, the CHART regimen (Continuous
Hyperfractionated Accelerated RadioTherapy), in which 54Gy is given in
1.5Gy fractions three times on each of 12 consecutive days, proved superior
to conventional radiotherapy (60Gy in 30 fractions in 6wk) in non-small-cell
lung cancer (NSCLC) without any increase in late normal tissue damage.

57

58

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

The optimum fractionation regimen
The clinical circumstances dominate the choice of regimen for each individual patient. Treatment is broadly divided by intention, either curative
or palliative.
Radical radiotherapy
• The highest tolerable dose is usually given to maximize probability of
eradication of cancer.
• Lower doses for highly radiosensitive malignancies and to eradicate
microscopic residual disease of moderate radiosensitivity, e.g. adjuvant
therapy post-surgery.
• Multiple daily fractions of around 2Gy employed to minimize the risk of
late radiation damage.
• Considerable acute toxicity acceptable because of anticipated survival
benefit.
• Patients must be fit enough for daily attendance over several weeks.
Palliative radiotherapy
•	Aim is to achieve quick symptom relief.
• May have little or no impact on survival time.
• Prefer the lowest dose and the number of fractions that will achieve the
desired response.
•	Avoid prolonged acute normal tissue damage.
• Late normal tissue effects may be irrelevant.
•	High-dose palliative radiotherapy may be appropriate in patients with
disease too advanced for radical treatment, where durable local disease
control is the aim, in tumours which have not disseminated widely, and
where life expectancy is at least many months.

Radiotherapy fractionation

59

60

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

External beam radiotherapy
Basic principles
Treatment with beams of ionizing radiation produced from a source external to the patient is known as EBRT.
Superficial X-ray therapy
Superficial tumours (e.g. skin, ribs) may be treated with X-rays of low
energy, in the range of 80–300kV. Electrons, emitted from a heated cathode, are accelerated across an X-ray tube, strike a tungsten anode, and
undergo bremsstrahlung interactions to produce X-rays. The beam size is
selected by using metal applicators of different sizes.
Cobalt teletherapy
Deeper-seated tumours are usually treated using megavoltage photons.
One option is to use a source of cobalt Co-60, emitting γ rays of average energy of 1.25MeV. Source strengths of about 350TBq are required to
achieve a sufficiently high-dose rate.
Megavoltage radiotherapy
However, much more commonly, megavoltage X-rays are produced by linear accelerators, in which electrons are accelerated to near the speed of
light in a waveguide, before striking a thin transmission target. The resultant X-rays can have energies in the range of 4–20MV. Such beams offer
advantages of higher penetration, higher dose rate, and better collimation
(restriction of the radiation to the treatment field) than beams of Co-60.
Electron therapy
Some linear accelerators are also configured to produce beams of electrons of various energies, usually in the range of 4–20MeV. Such beams can
uniformly treat from the skin surface down to a specified depth (related to
the energy), with a fairly rapid fall-off in dose beyond that. For example,
6MeV electrons will treat down to about 1.5cm deep, and 20MeV to about
5.5cm. Electrons offer a good alternative to kilovoltage X-rays for treating
superficial tumours.
The main limitations of low-energy X-ray beams are:
• unsuitability for the treatment of deep-seated malignancies, e.g.
thorax, abdomen, pelvis
• inherent delivery of high dose to the skin
• relatively rapid ‘fall-off ’ of dose with depth
• higher absorbed dose in bone, compared with soft tissue

External beam radiotherapy

Features of megavoltage X-rays
•	High dose delivered at depth through tissue
• Maximum dose below skin surface
• Skin sparing
•	Absorbed dose falls off exponentially with depth in tissue
• Sharp ‘fall-off ’ of dose at beam edge (penumbra)
• Beam shape can be modified by metal blocks or multileaf collimators,
now an integral part of modern linear accelerators
• Metal filters or wedges can be used to create a gradient in the dose
across the beam
• Treatment from any direction is feasible
• Crossfire technique with 2–4 beams gives higher target dose and
relative sparing of adjacent normal tissues

The planning process
There are six major steps in designing and delivering EBRT treatment.
Step 1. Beam dosimetry
The pattern of dose distribution from each linear accelerator has to be
measured prior to clinical use (see Fig. 4.1). Due to absorption properties
at such high energies, these measurements can be made using a small ionization chamber dosimeter in a tank of water. It is also essential to measure
calibration factors (known as output factors) that define the irradiation time
required for a specified absorbed dose for each treatment machine.
Step 2. Planning computer
Simple planning can be carried out using tables or plots of measured beam
data. However, most planning is performed using computers with specialized application software. Calculations are based on measured beam data
but also depend on algorithms that allow for varying attenuation and scatter
of X-rays in tissues of different densities. This density information is often
based on CT scans performed with the patient in the treatment position.
Step 3. Target drawing
The most important step in planning radiotherapy is defining the target, i.e.
the volume of tissue to be irradiated. This includes the gross tumour volume
(GTV) (e.g. as visualized clinically or on CT scan), together with surrounding tissues that might have microscopic invasion of tumour cells (clinical
target volume, CTV). A further margin has to be allowed for uncertainties in
the treatment set-up; these include variations in patient positioning, internal
organ movement, and tolerances of machine calibration (planning target
volume, PTV). It is also essential to define the position of critical organs, i.e.
those with a lower tolerance to radiation such as the spinal cord, eyes, and
kidneys. All can be drawn directly into the planning computer on a set of
CT images covering the full extent of the involved area. For less sophisticated treatments, the target and critical organs are defined clinically, e.g. by
palpation of the soft tissue tumour or using surface anatomy, and by plain
radiographs, often obtained on a fluoroscopic simulator.

61

62

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

Step 4. Dose planning
The objective of dose planning is to design a treatment plan, such that the
target is uniformly irradiated to an appropriate dose, whilst ensuring that
critical organs do not exceed tolerance doses. Parameters that can be varied include:
• patient position
• beam size
• beam shape
• beam direction
• number of beams
• relative dose per beam (beam weight)
• wedging
• use of compensators.
Step 5. Treatment verification
It is essential that beams are correctly positioned and critical organs not
over-irradiated. Beams for CT-planned radiotherapy are commonly verified by taking radiographs on a radiotherapy simulator prior to treatment;
alternatively, this can also be done during any treatment with megavoltage
radiographs or electronic portal imaging devices (EPIDs).
Increasingly, in vivo dosimetry, i.e. direct measurement of the dose delivered to the target and to adjacent critical normal structures, is being used
as the gold standard of treatment verification for radical treatments. For
this, thermoluminescence dosimeters are attached to relevant sites on the
patient during one fraction of radiotherapy.
Step 6. Treatment prescription and delivery
The clinical oncologist prescribes the appropriate dose and fractionation
schedule. Together with beam configuration information, these form a dataset completely describing the intended treatment. They are entered into a
computer verification system on the linear accelerator and control set-up
and delivery of each treatment.

External beam radiotherapy

(a)

+
1

Max

Norm

(b)

1

Norm

Fig. 4.1 (a) Isodose curves for open beams of 6MV X-rays. (b) Isodose curves for
12MeV electrons.

63

64

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

Progress in external beam radiotherapy
Three-dimensional planning
Perhaps the most significant change in radiotherapy practice in the past
20 years has been the direct use of cross-sectional imaging (most commonly using CT scanning) for radiotherapy planning (see Fig. 4.2). The
advantages of CT planning are significant:
• tumour and critical structures are more accurately defined
• dose calculation is more precise
• the planning process can be truly 3D, offering potential for reduction
in normal tissue damage, escalation of total dose to tumour, and
improvement in the therapeutic index.

Conformal treatment/multileaf collimators
It has always been the aim of radiotherapy to conform high-dose volume to
the target. Normal practice until the 1990s was to use rectangular beams,
with limited use of blocking. Inevitably, some normal tissue was unnecessarily irradiated to high doses. Improved levels of conformation can be
achieved by positioning shaped alloy blocks in the beam and, automatically,
with a feature on the modern linear accelerator known as multileaf collimators (MLCs). Here, the beam can be shaped under computer control by
sliding a series of 0.5cm-wide leaves into the beam.
By minimizing the amount of normal tissue irradiated to high dose, it may
be possible to deliver higher doses to the target, thereby improving tumour
control without increasing morbidity.

Further reading
Royal College of Radiologists. Radiotherapy dose–fractionation. Guidance BFCO(061).
London: Royal College of Radiologists. Available at: M http://www.rcr.ac.uk/publications.
aspx?PageID=149&Publication ID=229 (accessed 30 June 2009).

Progress in external beam radiotherapy

A

102

DVH-VOl 1
105
+
Norm
B

E

+

102
D 99
+

C 107
++
Max
F 57
+ DVH-VOI 2

3

Fig. 4.2 Three radiotherapy beams converging on a CT-defined volume of lung
cancer.

65

66

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

Recent advances in external beam
radiotherapy
In recent years, major technological advances have contributed to important changes in the practice of EBRT. Together, they have improved:
• the accuracy and precision of treatment
• the minimization of radiation exposure to organs at risk
• the ability to deliver higher doses of radiation to the tumour, with
improved local tumour control.

Volume definition
All centres now have their own high-resolution CT simulators, whilst previously planning scans were performed on diagnostic scanners. The tumour
volume for even palliative treatments can now be accurately defined in 3D.
For radical treatments, it is now possible to fuse CT images with other diagnostic modalities, including MRI and PET, further improving the accuracy of
definition of the tumour volume.

Image-guided radiotherapy
Radiotherapists have always recognized the need to allow for discrepancies
between the planned treatment volume and the volume of tissue that actually receives irradiation. Traditionally, a margin of 71cm was added to the
CTV to allow for errors in patient positioning and set-up, and movement
of the patient, the tumour, and organs at risk, both between and during
fractions of radiotherapy.
Previously, confirmation of the accuracy of treatment required the taking
of a megavoltage X-ray of the exit beam during a small part of the treatment exposure. These images are of limited value because of their poor
quality.
Port films have now been replaced by EPIDs. So-called online imaging can
be performed at the start of a treatment fraction in order to correct any
misalignment, whilst offline images can be reviewed by radiographers or
clinicians after the treatment fraction has been delivered (e.g. to compare a
series of fractions to look for repeated errors in the set-up).
Whilst previously confirmation of a correct set-up relied simply on the
comparison of bony landmarks between the treatment plan and portal
images, the tumour itself can now be imaged during radiotherapy:
• fiducial markers, e.g. gold seeds, can be implanted into the prostate
• ultrasound imaging can confirm the position of, e.g. the prostate gland
• cone beam CT, mounted on the linear accelerator, allows online 3D
imaging of the tumour target.

Inverse planned intensity-modulated radiotherapy
Whilst conventional radiotherapy uses treatment beams that deliver a uniform dose across the beam, this dose can be varied in a computerized optimization process, based on a set of dose constraints for the relevant normal
organs at risk and prescribed doses to the tumour targets (CTV and GTV).
To achieve these dose constraints, the distribution of the radiation beam
intensity is modulated across each beam:

Recent advances in external beam radiotherapy

• step and shoot technique—the beam intensity is modulated by
superimposing a number of static uniform intensity segments
• dynamic MLC delivery—a shaped sliding window passes across the field
during treatment
• tomotherapy—treatment delivered with multiple arcs, with the intensity
of each modulated by special dynamic MLCs.
IMRT has already demonstrated benefits in the treatment of prostate and
head and neck cancers, with reduced normal tissue late effects but equivalent control of cancer, when compared with conventional radiotherapy.
Encouraging results have been reported at other sites, including lung and
gynaecological cancers, and it is anticipated that this approach may replace
3D conformal radiotherapy (CRT) for many radical treatments. This treatment requires careful voluming of the tumour and all surrounding normal
tissues on each slice of the planning scan, with typical times for volume definition of at least 2h per patient, and considerably increases the workload
of the physics team.

Four-dimensional therapy planning and delivery
The delivery of radical radiotherapy to mobile structures, such as lung cancers, which move with respiration can be made more precise using respiratory gating to link CT planning in four-dimensional (4D) (tumour volume
drawn at each anatomical level, according to separate phases of the respiratory cycle) to the delivery of treatment limited to the expiratory phase
of respiration which provides maximal reliable tumour coverage with the
smallest treatment fields.

Stereotactic radiotherapy
Since the 1990s, this treatment modality has become established for the
treatment of a number of intracranial conditions, including benign tumours
and arteriovenous (AV) malformations. Using an external 3D coordinate
system, along with a stereotactic fixation system, it is possible to treat small
lesions (<1cm3) with high precision (1–2mm). Typically, the treatment comprises 1–3 large fractions (12–20Gy).
Recently, this approach has been used successfully in the treatment of
small malignancies in the brain, lung, and liver. The accuracy of these treatments at sites unsuitable for localization frames is facilitated by IGRT techniques, as described previously.

67

68

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

Electron beam therapy
Although electron radiation is radiobiologically equivalent to photon radiation, in terms of its effects on normal and malignant cells, the physical
characteristics of electron beams have advantages over photon beams in
the treatment of some anatomical sites. Unlike photons, electrons possess charge and so interact frequently, as they penetrate tissue; the resulting energy loss leads to a well-defined range in tissue. The radiation dose
deposited beyond a certain depth in tissue is negligible (see Fig. 4.3). This
allows treatment of target volumes lying within a few cm of the skin’s surface, whilst sparing any underlying critical structures.

Electron versus photon radiotherapy
Electrons
• Limited tissue penetration
• Negligible exit dose from beam
• Particularly useful for superficial tumours, e.g. skin cancer, head and
neck cancer, breast cancer
• Reduced dose to normal tissues beneath target, e.g. spinal cord, lung
Photons
• Suitable tissue penetration characteristics for the treatment of
deep-seated cancers
• Skin sparing
• Beam characteristics facilitate beam matching and crossfire
treatment plans

Production of electron beams
Most radiation therapy facilities have high-energy linear accelerators, capable of producing both X-ray and electron beams.
Since electrons scatter significantly in air, beam-defining cones or ‘trimmer’ bars are fitted to the head of the treatment machine in order to collimate the beam near the skin’s surface. The beam may be shaped further,
either by fitting a lead or ‘cerrobend’ aperture at the end of the cone (an
electron cut-out) or by using a lead sheet laid directly on the skin to restrict
exposure of electrons to the target area.

Dosimetric characteristics of electron beams
The various dosimetric aspects of electron beams in homogeneous tissue
are as follows.
Depth dose characteristics
The dose builds up slowly to a maximum value and then falls off rapidly,
reaching nearly zero at a depth equal to the practical electron range.
Effect of incident energy
The depth of penetration of an electron beam is determined by its incident
energy. The practical range (in cm) of an electron beam in water is:

Rp ≈ E0 /2

Electron beam therapy
110
6 MV photons
12 MeV electrons

100
90
% of dose maximum

80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

0

5

10

15

Depth (cm)

Fig. 4.3 Tissue penetration of different types of radiotherapy beams.
(where E0 is the incident beam energy expressed in MeV). Effectively all
radiation effects are limited to within this practical range.
Similarly, the clinically useful range—the depth at which the dose falls to
80% of its maximum value—is estimated as:

d80 ≈ E0 /3
The surface dose (commonly defined as the dose at 0.5mm depth) is significantly higher for an electron beam than for a megavoltage photon beam and
ranges from about 85% of the dose maximum at low energies (<10MeV) to
about 95% at higher energies.
Accelerators that offer an electron beam mode generally allow the selection of one of several available electron beam energies, most commonly in
the range of 6–15MeV.
Beam profile and penumbra
The beam penumbra tends to be larger for electron beams than for photon
beams. For electron beams, the dose falls to 90% of the central axis value,
71cm inside the geometric field edge for depths near the dose maximum; a
10 × 10cm2 beam, for instance, produces an ‘effective’ field size of only 8 ×
8cm2. The corresponding distance for a photon beam is only about 0.5cm.
Thus, a larger electron beam is required to cover a given target to a clinically
useful dose. This property of electron beams makes abutting of photon and
electron beams problematical, since a uniform dose across a field junction
cannot be achieved at all depths.

69

70

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

Brachytherapy
A form of radiation treatment where the radiation sources are placed
within, or close to, the tumour or target volume.

Indications
• The extent of the neoplasm must be known precisely, as treatment is
often given to a relatively small volume, and a ‘geographic miss’ of the
tumour is a significant risk, resulting in recurrence of the tumour at the
edge of the target volume.
• The site should be accessible for both inserting and removing sources
and allowing satisfactory geometric positioning of those sources.

Advantages
• The probability of local tumour control increases with increasing
radiation dose, but so does the probability of normal tissue damage.
Brachytherapy allows the delivery of a localized high radiation dose to
a small tumour volume, increasing the chance of local control. There
is a sharp fall-off of radiation dose in the surrounding normal tissue;
therefore, the risks of complication are reduced.
• The overall duration of brachytherapy is short, generally 2–7 days. The
constant low-dose irradiation takes advantage of the different rates of
repair and repopulation of normal and malignant tissues to produce
differential cell killing, enhancing the therapeutic ratio.
•	Hypoxic cells are relatively resistant to radiation treatment.
Reoxygenation may occur during low-dose rate radiotherapy, with
initially resistant hypoxic cells becoming oxygenated and more
radiosensitive during the course of brachytherapy.
• The dose distribution within the tumour volume is often not
homogeneous. Treatment is often prescribed to the minimum dose
received around the periphery of the treated volume. Areas close
to the radiation sources in the centre of the tumour volume often
receive up to twice this dose. Hypoxic cells are situated in avascular,
sometimes necrotic, areas in the centre of the tumours, and the higher
doses received in the centre may help to compensate for the relative
radioresistance of these hypoxic cells.
• Irregular-shaped tumours can be treated by judicious positioning
of radiation sources, and critical surrounding normal tissues can be
avoided.

Disadvantages
• Many sources emit γ rays, and nursing and medical staff may be
exposed to low, but significant, doses of radiation from the patient. Staff
exposure can be minimized by after-loading techniques or the use of
low-energy radionuclides.
• Large tumours are usually unsuitable, although brachytherapy may be
employed as a boost treatment, following a reduction in size by EBRT
and/or chemotherapy.

Brachytherapy

• The radiation dose falls off rapidly from the sources, according to
the inverse square law. In order to treat the required tissue volume
adequately, accurate geometric positioning of the sources is critical.
The spatial arrangement of sources used varies, depending on the type
of source applicator, the anatomical position of the tumour, and the
surrounding dose-limiting normal tissue. Accurate positioning of sources
or applicators requires special skill and training, and this is not universally
available.
• Surrounding structures, such as lymph nodes, that may contain overt or
microscopic cancer will not be irradiated by the implant or intracavity
treatment.

Types
• Intracavity—radioactive material inserted into body cavities:
• cervix/uterine cancer
• bronchial cancer
• oesophageal cancer
• bile duct cancer.
• Interstitial—radioactive material inserted into tissues:
• prostate cancer
• breast cancer
• head and neck cancer
• anal cancer.
• Surface—radioactive material placed over tumour:
• skin
• eye.
Implants can be classified as manually inserted, after-loading, or remote
after-loading. Manual insertion of radiation sources should be avoided,
if possible, owing to the radiation hazards to operating staff and nurses.
After-loading is when the radioactive material is loaded into hollow needles,
catheters, or applicators that have been inserted into the tumour area previously. Manipulation of these ‘cold’ applicators carries no radiation hazard
to medical and nursing staff, so that time can safely be taken to ensure
optimal source geometry.
After-loading with radioactive material can be manual or remote (using
machines such as the Selectron, commonly used to treat gynaecological cancer). For remote after-loading, stainless steel pellets containing, for example, caesium in glass are moved pneumatically from a computer-controlled,
lead-lined safe into intrauterine and vaginal applicators. This completely
eliminates irradiation of theatre and nursing staff.
Some remote after-loading devices work at a very high-dose rate, e.g.
the Microselectron (high-intensity iridium sources) or the Cathetron
(high-intensity cobalt sources), and treatment is delivered in a matter of minutes, often with a number of repeated outpatient fractions. Low-dose rate
brachytherapy may require the sources to remain in place for many hours.
Most implants are of the removable type; the radiation sources are
removed after delivery of the prescribed treatment dose. However, permanent implantations can be performed using relatively short half-life isotopes
such as 125I or 198Au, which are implanted into the tumours in the form of
seeds that remain in place after the radiation has decayed.

71

72

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

Radionuclides
γ emitters
Radium was used for many years as the source of γ rays for brachytherapy. This is now obsolete. The major source of γ rays is not radium, but
the gaseous daughter product radon. Radium tubes and needles must be
gas-tight and frequently checked for leaks. The γ rays produced are relatively high-energy (average of 830keV), and thick lead shields are required
to provide adequate radiation protection. Caesium-137 has no gaseous
daughter products, a useful half-life of 30y, and a less penetrating 660keV
γ ray, and it has largely replaced radium, especially for gynaecological work.
Iridium-192 is manufactured in the form of flexible wires and has many
advantages over traditional radium or caesium needles for interstitial
brachytherapy. Thin wires (0.3mm in diameter) can be inserted into flexible
nylon tubes or after-loading needles previously implanted into the tumour.
Thicker wires (0.6mm in diameter), in the form of hairpins, can be inserted
directly into a tumour through suitable introducers. Iridium is also available
in the form of seeds sealed in thin plastic coating, used frequently for gynaecological treatments with the Microselectron. Iridium produces a γ ray of
330keV, and lead shields of 2cm in thickness provide good protection for
medical and nursing staff. The major disadvantage of iridium is the relatively
short half-life (74 days), so that fresh material should be used for each interstitial implant.
Iodine-125 has a half-life of 59.6 days and is used for permanent implants
of the prostate. As well as having a relatively short half-life, the γ rays produced by this radionuclide are of low energy (27–35keV), and little radiation is emitted from a patient, following the implant, thus allowing early
discharge from hospital.
β emitters
The major use of plaques emitting β radiation is in the treatment of
eye tumours. Plaques can be made of strontium-90 or ruthenium-106/
rhodium-106.

Dosimetry
Radioactive material is implanted into tissues, according to distribution rules that vary according to the system used. In Europe, the classical Parker–Paterson and Quimby systems have largely been superseded
by the Paris system, which is particularly suitable for iridium wire implants.
A wire of the same linear intensity is used, and sources are arranged in
parallel, straight, and equidistant lines, 8–20mm apart. To compensate for
‘uncrossed’ ends, the wires are 20–30% longer than the length required to
treat the tumour. In a volume implant, sources in cross-section should be
arranged in either equilateral triangles or squares.
The dose to the tumour can be calculated manually, using graphs, such as
Oxford cross line curves, or by computer. The basal dose rate (the mean
of minimum values between sources) is first calculated. The treatment dose
(e.g. 65Gy in 7 days) is prescribed to the reference dose line (85% of the
basal dose).

Brachytherapy

The prescription point for surface applicators, such as moulds, and some
intracavity treatment is usually 0.5–1cm from the applicator. A special case
is intracavitary gynaecological treatment. The most frequently used prescribing point is the Manchester A point, defined as a point 2cm lateral
to the uterine canal and 2cm above the cervical os. The dose calculated
at this point is a good predictor of late radiation damage to the ureter,
bladder, rectum, and other pelvic organs. The International Commission of
Radiation Units (ICRU) Report 38 has proposed that the volume (defined
in height, thickness, and width enclosed by a 60Gy isodose line) should be
used for reporting the absorbed dose, following gynaecological treatments.

Future developments
There is increasing use of sophisticated 3D planning techniques incorporating CT or MRI scans to determine the dosage to the whole tumour and
to critical normal tissues. As well as defining the dose in purely physical
terms, the biological effects in different tissues may be expressed as biological effective doses.
Radiation exposure to staff has been reduced by the increased use of
high-dose rate remote after-loading machines. The complication rate following fractionated high-dose gynaecological insertions is less than that
following manually inserted low-dose sources. Continuous low-dose rate
implants have largely been replaced by high-dose ‘pulsed’ insertions, with
optimization of the dose distribution and more homogeneous irradiation of
the target volume.

Further reading
International Commission on Radiation Units (ICRU) (1985). Report 38: dose and volume specification for reporting intra-cavity therapy in gynecology. Bethesda: International Commission on
Radiation Units.
Nag S (ed.) (1997). Principles and practice of brachytherapy. New York: Futura.

73

74

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

Intraoperative radiotherapy
A fundamental problem with radiotherapy is targeting diseased tissues,
whilst avoiding unaffected normal structures. Various approaches are possible, including intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT). Involved tissues can be
surgically exposed and selectively treated with a single fraction of EBRT
(either orthovoltage X-rays or electrons), with reduced morbidity to
non-affected tissues. The principal drawbacks are:
• need for specialist additional equipment in the operating theatre
• need for radiation protection for staff in the presence of therapeutic (as
opposed to diagnostic) radiation exposure
• need for the radiation oncologist to be present in theatre
• radiobiological effects of a single large exposure on adjacent normal
tissues.
Long-term follow-up data are limited, but animal studies suggest that IORT
exposures of up to 30Gy carry little risk of long-term sequelae, as long as
radiosensitive normal structures, such as the major nerves, blood vessels,
spinal cord, or small bowel, are kept out of the radiation field. The threshold for nerve damage is 20–25Gy, with a latent period of 6–9 months.
A further risk to be considered is the induction of malignancy. A number
of studies in dogs have reported a high incidence of sarcomas induced by
IORT, compared to other treatment modalities. Issues, such as treatment
planning, are clearly complex, as only limited treatment volume data can be
available preoperatively.

Specific tumours
• Rectal cancer—may be helpful in both ° and recurrent tumours.
• Stomach and oesophagus—doses of up to 20Gy appear safe.
• Bile duct—may have role in minimal residual disease, rather than for
unresectable disease.
• Pancreas—although feasible, no proven benefits as yet.
• Head and neck cancer—safe, well tolerated, and encouraging results
from limited number of centres; may be helpful if minimal residual
disease or recurrent disease.
• Brain—poor results.
• Other tumours—may be of value in some paediatric cancers, breast
cancer, and soft tissue sarcomas.

Conclusions
IORT is a promising technique but is limited by the technical and logistic
problems already outlined. The continued development of conformal planning and delivery techniques for EBRT may reduce the therapeutic gain that
can be obtained from intraoperative treatment. In addition, CRT is more
reproducible in set-up and poses no special problems in dosimetry and fractionation. The development of IORT continues to be restricted to clinical
trials within a few specialist centres.

Intraoperative radiotherapy

75

76

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

The role of unsealed radionuclides
Nuclear medicine in oncology may be used to:
• localize the ° tumour
• detect metastases
• monitor the response to therapy and detect recurrences
• deliver targeted radiotherapy

Radiolabelled tracers
A radiopharmaceutical consists of a ligand attached to a radionuclide that
emits γ rays. The distribution of the radiopharmaceutical may vary from
the normal because of a pathological process, e.g. a malignant tumour.
Such biochemical or functional changes in tumours cannot be detected by
cross-sectional imaging such as CT or MRI. However, imaging by detection of radiopharmaceutical (scintigraphy) lacks the anatomical detail of
CT or MRI, and information from different imaging modalities is often
complementary.
Several radiopharmaceuticals are used for both diagnosis and treatment.
Examples are iodine-123 and -131, which localize avidly in functioning thyroid tissue. Other simple radiopharmaceuticals are thallium-201 (201Tl) and
gallium-67 (67Ga). The ideal radionuclide for scintigraphic imaging does not
exist, but technetium-99m (99mTc) has many favourable characteristics.

Scintigraphic methods
Traditionally, γ cameras are used for scintigraphic imaging. Planar images
and whole-body images are acquired during a period of several minutes by a
stationary γ camera. With single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT), cross-sectional images can be obtained, using computer techniques similar to those in CT. The main advantages of SPECT are greater
sensitivity and accurate 3D localization of lesions.

Positron emission tomography
PET employs radionuclides that emit positrons and provides quantitative
tomographic images. Glucose utilization is measured with 18F-labelled
fluorodeoxyglucose, and cerebral blood flow has been studied with
15
O-labelled water. PET scanning may be useful to identify ° tumours and
metastases and to study tumour vitality, cell turnover rates, and the metabolic response to therapy.

Applications in diagnosis and follow-up
Bone scintigraphy
Bone scintigraphy is normally performed 2–4h after the injection of 550MBq
of 99mTc-labelled methylene disphosphonate (99mTc-medronate, MDP) or
hydroxymethylene disphosphonate (99mTc-oxidronate, HDP). Multiple planar images or a whole-body survey of the skeleton are obtained. Skeletal
scintigraphy has high sensitivity for the detection of ° and metastatic bone
lesions. In the absence of reactive osteoblastic activity, the lesion itself may
appear on the bone scan as a ‘cold’ defect.

The role of unsealed radionuclides

High sensitivity (80–100%) has been reported in patients with bone
metastases from breast carcinoma, prostatic carcinoma, bronchogenic
carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, osteogenic sarcoma, cervical carcinoma,
Ewing’s sarcoma, head and neck carcinomas, neuroblastoma, and ovarian
carcinoma. Lower sensitivity (around 75%) has been found in melanoma,
small-cell lung tumours, Hodgkin’s disease, renal cell carcinoma (RCC),
rhabdomyosarcoma, multiple myeloma, and bladder carcinoma.
Thyroid scintigraphy
131
I as radioiodine, 123I as sodium iodide, and 99mTc as sodium pertechnetate are the radionuclides used for scintigraphic visualization of the thyroid
gland. Although 131I is cheap and readily available, its major disadvantages
are its long physical half-life and α emissions, resulting in a considerable
radiation dose to the thyroid and GI tract. 123I has excellent physical properties for imaging and a physical half-life of 13h, but its use is limited due to its
cost. 99mTc is trapped in the thyroid but is not organified, and it washes out
from the gland over time.
The indications for thyroid scintigraphy in oncology are:
• evaluation of a solitary or dominant nodule
• follow-up after surgery for differentiated thyroid cancer.
Therapy with unsealed radioactive sources
Targeted radiotherapy using tumour-seeking radiopharmaceuticals has been
employed for almost half a century. The radiopharmaceutical should have
specific affinity for tumour tissue, with a high target-to-background ratio and
long retention time; the radiation emitted by the radioisotope should be
sufficiently energetic for a therapeutic effect but be absorbed over a short
distance to irradiate the tumour target only. Some of the clinically useful
radiopharmaceuticals for therapy are 131I, 89Sr, 32P, 186Re, 153Sm, and 90Y.
Iodine-131 therapy in differentiated thyroid cancer
131
I has been used extensively in the treatment of thyrotoxicosis and in differentiated thyroid carcinoma after thyroidectomy. 131I is used for ablation
of the remaining thyroid tissue, following total thyroidectomy, and for the
treatment of recurrent and metastatic thyroid cancer.
I-meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) therapy in neural crest tumours
I-MIBG has been used successfully for radionuclide therapy of neural
crest tumours. Post-therapy scintigrams, 1wk after administration, can be
obtained for further documentation. In patients with malignant phaeochromocytoma, response is achieved in >50% of patients; with neuroblastoma,
the response rate is 35%. Some success is reported with 131I-MIBG therapy
for paraganglioma and medullary thyroid carcinoma.
131
131

Bone-seeking radiopharmaceuticals for metastatic bone disease
Bone metastases occur in up to 85% of patients who have breast, lung, or
prostate cancer. Bone-seeking radiopharmaceuticals have pharmacokinetic
properties similar to those of either calcium or phosphate. Strontium-89
(89Sr) is a calcium analogue. 32P, 86Re, hydroxyethylidine diphosphonate
(HEDP), and 153Sm are all phosphate analogues.

77

78

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

Historically, intravenous (IV) injection of 32P-orthophosphate for the
treatment of bone pain was effective, but bone marrow toxicity limited
its widespread use. 89Sr was the first radioisotope licensed as a systemic
treatment for bone metastases in prostate cancer. After IV administration
of l50MBq of 89Sr, the radiopharmaceutical is avidly accumulated in areas
of high bone turnover, such as reactive bone surrounding a metastasis.
Myelosuppression can be expected after 6wk. After a single administration
of 89Sr, in 75–80% of patients, pain is promptly relieved and progression
of further bone disease is delayed, with the response lasting 1–6 months.
Intracavitary therapy
Injection of radiopharmaceuticals directly into the pleural cavity, pericardium, peritoneum, urinary bladder, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), or cystic
tumours offers the potential advantage of direct access of radiopharmaceuticals to tumour tissue, without a systemic burden. Colloids and monoclonal
antibodies labelled with 32P, 90Y, or 131I can be used for this purpose.
Monoclonal antibodies
Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) were considered the ultimate ‘magic bullets’ for cancer therapy when introduced 20 years ago. The goal has been
to develop antibodies that target active tumour cells specifically and act as
carriers of radiation to treat the disease. At present, radio-immunotherapy
has met with more problems than successes, and its future is uncertain.

The role of unsealed radionuclides

79

80

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

Total body irradiation
Treatment intensification with high doses of chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy is used to try to improve cure rates for sensitive tumours and to
eradicate remaining bone marrow stem cells prior to transplantation, most
commonly with donor stem cells.

Aims of total body irradiation
• To eliminate any residual malignant disease.
• To ablate residual marrow to permit engraftment of donor peripheral
stem cells or bone marrow.
• To produce immune suppression (especially for non-haplotype identical
grafts).

Indications for high-dose therapy
Haematological malignancies
• Prior to bone marrow or stem cell transplantation for relapsed disease,
e.g. acute leukaemia, high-grade NHL, myeloma.
Other malignancies
• These include neuroblastoma.
Types of haemopoietic reconstitution
•	Autologous—transplant may be peripheral stem cells or cryopreserved
marrow obtained before high-dose therapy.
•	Allogeneic—matched or mismatched (one haplotype identical) bone
marrow is usually used and may be obtained from a family member or
donor panel.

Pre-treatment screening
• The patient’s disease should be in remission.
• There should be adequate renal, cardiac, hepatic, and pulmonary
function to cope with the toxicity of chemotherapy and total body
irradiation (TBI).
• Exposure to medication with the same side effects as TBI, or likely to
potentiate its side effects, should be assessed:
• neurotoxicity with asparaginase
• renal toxicity with platinum or ifosfamide
• pulmonary toxicity with methotrexate (MTX) or bleomycin
• cardiac toxicity with cyclophosphamide or anthracyclines.
• Consider the need for additional therapy to sites such as the CNS,
testes, mediastinum, i.e. areas of sanctuary or bulk disease.

Preparation
Anti-emetics, including a 5-HT antagonist, are given IV with dexamethasone, 1h before treatment starts. If additional sedation is required, phenobarbital or diazepam may be used. For very young children, anaesthesia with
ketamine may be necessary.

Total body irradiation

Technique
• Linear accelerator—optimum energy of around 6MV.
• Fractionated TBI is preferred for reasons of convenience.
• Patient lies on couch behind a Perspex sheet (to provide full dose to
skin), either on their side or back and side alternately.
• Treatment is given by opposed fields for half of each treatment time.
• The couch is placed at an extended distance from the machine to obtain
the field size required to cover the whole body.
• The dose distribution will be inhomogeneous because of variation in
AP/PA separation along the body and because of density differences
(especially the lung). This can be compensated for by using bolus or lung
shielding but is unnecessary using schedules described here where doses
do not exceed tolerance for any normal tissues.
• The organ most at risk is the lung.

Calculation of dose
Paired lithium fluoride dose meters or diodes are used to measure the dose
distribution throughout the body. These are placed on the skin at defined
sites in the upper and lower lung, mediastinum, abdomen, and pelvis.
Midline doses are taken as the average of AP and PA dose meter readings,
or CT scanning of the whole body can be used with a planning computer to
calculate doses throughout the body.

Dose schedules
Adults
The optimum fractionated doses are determined as 13.2–14.4Gy, depending on the point of dose prescription. The maximum lung dose is preferred,
as this is the dose-limiting organ, and should not exceed 14.4Gy.
Children
May tolerate slightly higher doses than adults. In the Medical Research
Council (MRC) protocol, treatment is given in eight fractions of 1.8Gy over
4 days. Many other dose schedules are in common use and have been found
by experience to be satisfactory.

Toxicity of treatment
Acute effects
• Nausea and vomiting commonly start about 6h after the first fraction.
• Parotid swelling—occurs in the first 24h and then resolves
spontaneously, although often leaving a dry mouth.
•	Hypotension.
• Fever—abolished by steroids.
• Diarrhoea—occurs at day 5 as a result of GI mucositis.
• Delayed toxicity.
• Pneumonitis presenting with dyspnoea and characteristic X-ray
appearances.
• Somnolence due to transient demyelination occurs at 6–8wk and is
characterized by sleepiness, anorexia, and, in some cases, nausea which
settles spontaneously within 7–10 days.

81

82

Chapter 4

Principles of radiation oncology

Late toxicity
• Cataracts occur in <20% of patients; incidence increases at 2–6 years
but then appears to plateau.
•	Hormonal changes—azoospermia and amenorrhoea, with consequent
sterility, are the norm; very occasionally, fertility has been maintained,
leading to normal pregnancies, with no increased incidence of
abnormalities in the offspring.
•	Hypothyroidism may result from damage to the thyroid alone or in
combination with pituitary damage.
• In children, there may be impaired production of growth hormone
(GH) which, added to the effect of early epiphyseal fusion from TBI,
results in stunting of growth.
• Induction of second malignancy—there is a 5-fold increase in the risk of
second malignancies. Brain tumours may be attributed to TBI, and oral
and rectal carcinomas have been reported.
• Malignancy of the lymphoid system may result from the prolonged
immune suppression.

Chapter 5

Principles of chemotherapy
Rationale for combination therapyâ•‡ 84
Alkylating agentsâ•‡ 85
Anti-tumour antibioticsâ•‡ 86
Anti-metabolitesâ•‡ 88
Cisplatin and derivativesâ•‡ 94
Topoisomerase inhibitorsâ•‡ 98
Anti-microtubule agentsâ•‡ 100
Drug resistanceâ•‡ 104
Dose intensificationâ•‡ 106
Chemo-irradiationâ•‡ 108

83

84

Chapter 5

Principles of chemotherapy

Rationale for combination therapy
Cytotoxic chemotherapy destroys cancer cells. Currently available drugs
target:
• chemistry of nucleic acids
• DNA or RNA production
• mechanics of cell division (e.g. spindle poisons).
The discovery and development of cytotoxic agents has paralleled the
understanding of the chemical processes involved. The lack of selectivity
inherent in this approach has limited the ability to kill cancer cells, whilst
leaving normal dividing cells unscathed.
Cytotoxic agents can be classified by:
• chemical properties or mechanisms of action
• source (e.g. natural products)
• propensity to be cell cycle- or phase-specific.
The following principles underlie the design of a potential combination
chemotherapy regimen:
• each drug should have single-agent activity in that tumour type
• each drug should have a different mechanism of activity
• drugs with non-overlapping toxicity patterns are preferable
• drugs that work in different parts of the cell cycle should be selected
• drugs should not all share the same resistance mechanisms.
Combination therapy aims to increase the ‘fractional cell kill’, leading to
improved overall response of the tumour. Higher doses of cytotoxic drugs
tend to produce increased cell kill (at least within certain limits); thus, it is
important not to compromise on the dose of each agent (hence the need
to select drugs with non-overlapping toxicity).
• Tumour mass is usually composed of cells that are asynchronously
dividing—thus, combinations of drugs that act at different points in the
cell cycle will theoretically kill more cells.
• ‘Multidrug resistance’ (MDR) is displayed by some tumour types,
resulting from, e.g. the expression of an efflux pump on the cell surface
that drives the drug out of the cell.
More recently, so-called targeted therapies have been developed which aim
to specifically inhibit some process of fundamental importance to the cancer cell—good examples are angiogenesis inhibition and blockade of EGFR.
These drugs often target some aspect of oncogene function. These drugs
already have an established place in the therapy of some cancers. However,
there is still a lot of clinical research that needs to be done to determine
the optimal way of integrating these agents with existing therapies to maximize benefits to the patient. See Chapter 10 and appropriate site-specific
chapters in Part 4.

Alkylating agents

Alkylating agents
The oldest anti-cancer cytotoxics alkylating agents are antiproliferative
drugs, because they bind covalently via alkyl groups to DNA. Following
cross-linking, there is thought to be arrest in G1–S transition, followed
either by DNA repair or apoptosis.

Clinical use
Extensively used to treat leukaemia and lymphoma, and they are also active
in a wide range of solid cancers.

Resistance
Resistance to alkylating agents is multifactorial and may differ between
classes of alkylating agents; for example, resistance to nitrosoureas is probably mediated by an increased expression of the enzyme O6-alkyl transferase. In addition to enhanced DNA repair, resistant cells may exhibit an
increased ability to detoxify alkylating agents. Such mechanisms include
increased:
• glutathione
• metallothionein
• glutathione-S-transferase.

Examples of alkylating agents
• Melphalan is a derivative of nitrogen mustard and the amino acid
phenylalanine. The rationale behind this is that dividing cells might take
up amino acids more rapidly (and hence melphalan), thus providing
some tumour selectivity.
• Chlorambucil is the phenylbutyric acid derivative of nitrogen mustard,
a well-absorbed alkylating agent that can be orally administered—with
activity in both solid and haematological malignancies.
• Cyclophosphamide is extensively used in cytotoxic chemotherapy. Its
major toxicities are marrow suppression, alopecia, nausea, and vomiting.
As a result of its relative lack of non-haematological toxicities, it is used
in high-dose chemotherapy regimens.
• Ifosfamide is an isomer of cyclophosphamide. Extensive metabolism of
this agent occurs, liberating chloroacetaldehyde, which is thought to
be responsible for some of the toxicity profile. It nearly always causes
alopecia and haemorrhagic cystitis, but this can be circumvented by the
co-administration of thiol mesna which is thought to chemically combine
with acrolein, the metabolite thought to be responsible for this toxicity.
• Both cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide are pro-drugs activated by hepatic
cytochrome P450 metabolism to produce nitrogen mustards.
• Busulfan has a special place in the treatment of CML. It is well absorbed
from the GI tract. The dose-limiting toxicities are myelosuppression and
hepatic veno-occlusive disease. It can also cause hyperpigmentation and,
rarely, pulmonary interstitial fibrosis.
• Carmustine (BCNU (1,3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea)) is a
small lipophilic molecule and is used to treat CNS tumours and as a
conditioning agent in high-dose therapy.
• Temozolomide is a more recently developed agent that is active in glioma
and melanoma.

85

86

Chapter 5

Principles of chemotherapy

Anti-tumour antibiotics
Anthracyclines
Anthracyclines (doxorubicin, daunorubicin, epirubicin, and idarubicin) are
closely related structurally and have similar mechanisms of action and
resistance, but they have different patterns of clinical activity and toxicity.
Pharmacology
The anthracyclines have several effects, and their specific mode of action
is unclear.
• There are direct effects at the cell surface and also on signal
transduction, specifically activation of protein kinase C-mediated cell
signalling pathways. The role of these actions in mediating anthracycline
cytotoxicity is undefined.
• Their ability to undergo reduction to highly reactive compounds and
to generate free radicals has clinically important implications. The
characteristic cardiotoxicity of anthracyclines appears due to the
generation of free radicals in the heart where defence systems are less
active.
• The major target of anthracyclines is the enzyme topoisomerase II
(topo II). During cell division, topo II binds to DNA, forming a ‘cleavable
complex’ that makes transient ‘nicks’ in DNA, allowing torsional strain
in DNA to be released, after which strands rejoin. Anthracyclines bind
to the cleavable complex, disrupting this process, thus leading to DNA
strand breaks and cell death.
Drug resistance
Some tumours are inherently resistant to anthracyclines, whereas others
initially respond but later become resistant.
The MDR1 gene codes for a P-170 glycoprotein (Pgp) that is a naturally
occurring cell surface pump. Its physiological function appears to be a protective mechanism, expelling toxic substances from the cell. Though expression is increased in some human cancers before treatment or at relapse,
attempts to manipulate Pgp have had limited success.
A second efflux pump, associated with the expression of multidrug
resistance-associated protein (MRP) gene, has been implicated in anthracycline resistance in the lab.
Pharmacokinetics and metabolism
After IV administration, anthracycline levels fall rapidly, as it is distributed
and binds to tissue DNA. Subsequent metabolism and elimination lead to
a slow fall in plasma concentrations over several days. Dose reductions are
recommended for patients with abnormal liver biochemistry, as they are at
risk of increased toxicity.
Clinical use
The anthracyclines are among the most active cytotoxic agents.
• Doxorubicin and epirubicin are commonly used in IV regimens against
breast cancer, sarcoma, and haematological cancers.
• Daunorubicin and idarubicin (oral) have a major role in the treatment of
acute leukaemia.

Anti-tumour antibiotics

Toxicity
The dose-limiting acute toxicities are:
• myelosuppression and mucositis, both occurring 5–10 days after
treatment
• alopecia—occurs but is reversible
• extravasation injury—can be severe, and there is no proven effective
treatment.
Cumulative cardiotoxicity is specific to anthracyclines and appears to be
caused by the accumulation of free radicals in the heart. It typically presents with heart failure, the risk of which is dose-related. At doxorubicin
doses below 450mg/m2, the risk is <5% but increases substantially at higher
doses. In most cases, this threshold allows a full course of anthracycline to
be given without risk. Irradiation of the heart increases the risk of cardiotoxicity, as does pre-existing cardiac disease.
•	Liposomal encapsulation of doxorubicin reduces cardiotoxicity.
•	Epirubicin, daunorubicin, and idarubicin have less effect on the
myocardium than doxorubicin.

Mitoxantrone
This agent binds to DNA and interacts with topo II, but it appears less
potent in generating free radicals. It is also a substrate for Pgp. The main
clinical use of mitoxantrone has been as an alternative to doxorubicin in
advanced breast cancer, as it is substantially less cardiotoxic and less vesicant and causes less alopecia. However, mitoxantrone is less effective than
doxorubicin. It has some activity against other solid tumours, including NHL
and non-lymphocytic leukaemia.

Dactinomycin (actinomycin-D)
Dactinomycin binds strongly to DNA by intercalation and inhibits the synthesis of RNA and proteins. It also appears to be a substrate for the Pgp
pump. It is especially active against childhood tumours.

Mitomycin
Mitomycin (MMC) is active against a range of solid tumours but is also used
as a radiosensitizer in chemo-irradiation. MMC is used in combination with
other cytotoxics to treat breast cancer, NSCLC, and GI cancer. It is used as
a radiosensitizer in the treatment of anal cancer.
The most important toxicity of MMC is myelosuppression, especially
thrombocytopenia, which is delayed and can be cumulative. Accordingly,
MMC is given systemically every 6wk, in contrast to the 3-weekly schedules usually used for other anti-tumour antibiotics. Haemolytic–uraemic
syndrome, pulmonary fibrosis, and cardiac complications are all uncommon
side effects.

87

88

Chapter 5

Principles of chemotherapy

Anti-metabolites
Anti-metabolites interfere with normal cellular metabolism of nucleic acids;
they act with S-phase specificity (see Fig. 5.1). They include some of the
most widely prescribed cytotoxic agents, the indications of which are not
confined to treating malignancies.

Anti-folates
Understanding anti-metabolite action necessitates the knowledge of folate
biochemistry. The enzyme thymidylate synthase (TS) acts as a rate-limiting
step in the synthesis of thymidylate, converting dUMP (2'-deoxyuridine
5'-triphosphate) into dTTP (2'-deoxythymidine 5'-triphosphate) by transferring a methyl group from CH2–FH4. The supply of reduced folate is maintained by the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR).

Methotrexate
Widely used in many cancers, MTX is frequently used in breast cancer,
osteogenic sarcoma, GI cancers, and choriocarcinoma.
Pharmacology
MTX is well absorbed orally below 25mg/m2 but is usually administered
IV, except in maintenance regimens and the treatment of benign connective tissue diseases. There is some hepatic metabolism to the active drug
7-OH-MTX, and 710% of the drug is cleared by biliary excretion. Dose
adjustments are not usually necessary with hepatic dysfunction. Significant
third-space effects occur in the presence of fluid collections (e.g. ascites,
pleural effusions) and can increase toxicity through reduced clearance. MTX
excretion can also be inhibited by probenecid, penicillins (and cephalosporins), and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents.
Common toxicities include mucositis, myelosuppression, and
nephrotoxicity.

Thymidylate synthase inhibitors
New agents have been developed that directly inhibit TS (in contrast to
indirect inhibitors, e.g. fluorouracil and MTX) and interact with the folatebinding site of TS.
Raltitrexed causes prolonged inhibition of TS by enhanced retention in
cells due to polyglutamation of the parent molecule. After IV administration, it has triphasic elimination, with a rapid initial fall in concentration, but
a very prolonged final phase; 50% of the drug is renally excreted unchanged.
It is active in breast and colorectal cancers, with toxicities including myelosuppression, diarrhoea, and transaminitis. It has not been licensed in many
situations because of unpredictable severe toxicities.

Fluoropyrimidines
These pro-drugs are intracellularly activated, and their products inhibit
pyrimidine synthesis.

Anti-metabolites

RNA

10-CHO-FH4

FUTP

CH2 - FH4

dUMP

Tegafur
5-FU
Capecitabine

FduMP

TS

TS MTX
inhibitors

DHPD

Elimination

5-CHO-FH4
(Leucovorin)

dTMP

DHFR

FH2

dTTP
DNA

MTX

Cytotoxics (MTX, methotrexate; 5-FU, fluorouracil; TS
inhibitors include ralitrexed)

dTTP

Normal metabolites
Indicates enzyme inhibition

DHPD Enzyme (TS, thymidylate synthase; DHPD, dihydropyrimidine
dehydrogenase; DHFR, dihydrofolate reductase)

Fig. 5.1 Main sites of action of anti-metabolites.

Fluorouracil
This is a widely prescribed agent, with particular activity in breast cancer, GI
cancers, and head and neck tumours.
It is metabolized to FdUMP (5-fluoro-2-deoxyuridine 5-monophosphate),
which, in the presence of CH2–FH4, forms a stable complex inhibiting TS. It
also inhibits RNA synthesis and pre-ribosomal RNA processing.
Pharmacology
Fluorouracil is given IV, both as a bolus and a prolonged infusion. It has a
short initial half-life, with significant hepatic, renal, and lung clearance. Active
metabolites (e.g. 5dUMP and FUTP) have variable pharmacokinetics.
Toxicities of fluorouracil include myelosuppression and, particularly with
longer administration schedules, stomatitis and diarrhoea. Prolonged infusion
overcomes the initial rapid clearance, resulting in differing toxicities with minimal bone marrow effects. Instead, cutaneous toxicity, known as hand–foot
syndrome, occurs. Neurotoxicity and cardiotoxicity may also occur.

Fluorouracil pro-drugs
Uftoral® (tegafur with uracil)
Orally active, this is a mixture of tegafur given in combination with uracil in a
molar ratio of 1:4. This agent is licensed and used in many countries, but not
in the US. It has shown activity mainly in colorectal and other GI cancers.

89

90

Chapter 5

Principles of chemotherapy

Capecitabine
This is an orally active prodrug of fluorouracil. It is preferentially activated
in tumour and liver tissue and has the potential to replace a prolonged or
continuous infusion of fluorouracil. It has been shown to be active in a wide
range of cancers and is licensed for breast and GI cancers. Further development and clinical trial work is ongoing to try to substitute this drug for
fluorouracil in other clinical scenarios.
2-fluoro-2'-deoxyuridine (floxuridine)
Given IV, this agent can be metabolized both into fluorouracil and also
directly into FdUMP, theoretically giving an increased efficacy. Its clinical use
has largely been confined to hepatic artery infusion, because it is less toxic
than single-agent fluorouracil used by this route for treating colon cancer. It
is not licensed for use in the UK.
Modulation of fluorouracil
A number of agents have been combined with fluorouracil in order to
increase either its efficacy or therapeutic index.
Fluorouracil and folinic acid (FA) combinations are the mainstay of treatment of colon cancer. FA is given by infusion, before or concomitant with
fluorouracil. By increasing the supply of CH2–FH4, FA potentiates the interaction between fluorouracil and TS. Although more toxic, it has a higher
response rate in advanced colorectal cancer with combined treatment than
single-agent fluorouracil.

Anti-purines
Purine analogues are widely used to treat leukaemias and as immunosuppressives (azathioprine) and antivirals (aciclovir, ganciclovir).
Pemetrexed is a novel TS inhibitor which also inhibits DHFR and glycinamide ribonucleotide formyl transferase (GARFT). It is licensed for the
treatment of mesothelioma and NSCLC. Its toxicity is reduced by the concomitant administration of B12 and folate supplements. 6-mercaptopurine
(6-MP) and 6-thioguanine (6-TG) both inhibit de novo purine synthesis, and
their nucleotide products are incorporated into DNA. Hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (HGPRT) produces monophosphates that
inhibit early stages of purine synthesis and then convert into triphosphates
that are incorporated into DNA, causing strand breaks. There are synergistic effects with MTX, due to 5-phosphoribosylpyrophosphate (PRPP)
build-up, facilitating phosphorylation by HGPRT. Resistance develops due
to HGPRT deficiency and reduced substrate affinity. Variable oral bioavailability may contribute to some treatment failures in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL).
Both drugs have a short half-life and are primarily metabolized—the
important difference is that 6-MP is a substrate for xanthine oxidase, and
dose alterations are necessary when co-administered with allopurinol.
There is poor CSF penetration, but otherwise these agents are widely
distributed.
The main toxicity is myelosuppression, but 6-MP can also cause hepatotoxicity. Nausea, vomiting, and mucositis can also occur, more commonly
with 6-MP. The commonest indication is haematological malignancy—6-MP
is used for maintenance therapy of ALL, and 6-TG is used for both remission induction and maintenance in acute myeloid leukaemia (AML).

Anti-metabolites

Cytosine analogues
Cytarabine (cytosine arabinoside, ara-C)
Cytarabine is actively transported, and its metabolite ara-CTP is incorporated into DNA, inhibiting DNA polymerases and possibly phospholipid
synthesis. Unlike gemcitabine, no further normal nucleotides are added, so
that damaged DNA is susceptible to DNA repair.
Cytarabine is active in NHL and AML, but not in solid tumours. There is
renal excretion of the deaminated compound, and, because of rapid clearance, better activity is observed when cytarabine is given by continuous
infusion. Side effects are emesis, alopecia, and myelosuppression.
It can also cause ‘ara-C syndrome’ with fevers, myalgias, rash, keratoconjunctivitis, and arthralgias. Rarely, lung and pancreatic damage occurs.
Gemcitabine (2,2-difluorodeoxycytidine, dF-CTP)
This fluorinated analogue has better membrane permeation and affinity for
deoxycytidine kinase than cytarabine. Intracellular retention is prolonged, partly
due to a unique self-potentiation, in which the bi- and triphosphates facilitate
the phosphorylation of the parent compound, as well as inhibit its catabolism.
The active metabolite dF-CTP is incorporated into DNA, followed only
by one more normal nucleotide, resulting in the protection of DNA from
repair enzymes (‘masked termination’). It is probably the saturable formation of dF-CTP that contributes to the clinical schedule dependency of
gemcitabine, usually given IV, weekly for 3wk out of four.
Toxicities include flu-like symptoms, transaminitis, peripheral oedema,
myelosuppression, and possible nephrotoxicity.
There is some evidence for synergy with cisplatin, the extent of which
appears to be schedule-dependent. Gemcitabine is active in a wide range of
cancers—most notably in pancreatic carcinoma where it is one of very few
drugs that have modest survival advantage.

Adenosine analogues
Three adenosine analogues have come into clinical practice, active in
low-grade NHL, Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia, and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). All have similar effects and interact with the enzyme
adenosine deaminase (ADA), a deficiency of which causes severe combined immunodeficiency. Toxicity includes myelosuppression with particular
effects on lymphocytes, including depression of CD3 and CD4 levels, and
reduced natural killer (NK) cell activity.
Fludarabine
Resistant to ADA, it is particularly useful in treating CLL. It is actively transported into the cells, and its mode of action is a consequence of phosphorylation, following which it is incorporated into DNA, and probably RNA,
and may even cause topo II inhibition. Can cause haemolytic anaemia.
Pentostatin (2'-deoxycoformycin)
Has a very high affinity for ADA, and the resultant complex is stable for
over 24h, resulting in enzyme inhibition. Its major indication is treatment
of hairy cell leukaemia. Actively transported into cells, it is phosphorylated
and incorporated into DNA and also produces inhibitory deoxyadenosine
triphosphate (dATP). It inhibits both DNA synthesis and DNA repair.

91

92

Chapter 5

Principles of chemotherapy

Cladribine (2-chlorodeoxyadenosine)
Resistant to ADA, phosphorylated and incorporated into DNA, and is used
for hairy cell leukaemia.

Hydroxycarbamide
This oral agent inhibits ribonucleotide reductase, which reduces the availability of all deoxynucleotides. It crosses the blood–brain barrier and is used
in myeloproliferative disorders. Toxicities are myelosuppression, GI toxicities, and sometimes hyperpigmentation of the skin.

Anti-metabolites

93

94

Chapter 5

Principles of chemotherapy

Cisplatin and derivatives
Cisplatin is one of the most active anti-cancer drugs in clinical use, with
a very wide spectrum of anti-tumour activity. In view of its considerable
toxicity profile, many attempts have been made to develop analogues with
less toxicity, increased efficacy, or both.

Carboplatin
A large number of analogues have been subject to clinical trials, but only
carboplatin has emerged as a viable clinical candidate.
There is still a degree of controversy regarding the clinical equivalence
of cisplatin and carboplatin; there are limited situations, such as germ cell
tumours, where cisplatin still appears to be the agent of choice. However,
carboplatin, in most other circumstances, has supplanted the use of cisplatin.
Side effects of carboplatin
Significant
• Thrombocytopenia, worse at day 14.
•	Leucopenia, worse at day 14.
Less significant toxicities
• Renal.
• Neurological.
• Otological.
• Nausea and vomiting—occasionally.
• Alopecia—absent/mild.
• Visual disturbances—rarely.
• Allergy—in 2%.
Dosage of carboplatin
Initially, a dosage of carboplatin based on the body surface area resulted in
a variable degree of thrombocytopenia, with a number of patients requiring
platelet transfusion. Pharmacokinetically based dosing is now the adopted
standard.
The simple pharmacokinetics of carboplatin, with clearance being
dependent almost exclusively on renal mechanisms, allow a dosing formula
to be derived. The dose required to achieve a specific area under the curve
(AUC) can be calculated for an individual patient. The most widely used
formula is:

Dose ≈ H (GFR + 25)
where:
• dose is the total dose in mg to be given to the patient
• H is the desired AUC in mg/mL.mm. Typical AUCs are between 4 and
7, depending on the frequency of administration, previous treatment,
and the drugs being used in combination
• GFR is the glomerular filtration rate of the patient (mL/min), unadjusted
for the surface area (should ideally be measured by an isotope method
such as 51CrEDTA clearance, but a carefully performed 24h urinary
creatinine clearance is also acceptable).

Cisplatin and derivatives

Activity of carboplatin
Carboplatin can be regarded as a less toxic substitute for cisplatin and is
used for similar indications. Patients resistant to cisplatin will also be resistant to carboplatin, and vice versa. However, the increased thrombocytopenia seen with carboplatin may be a disadvantage in some combinations,
whilst reduced non-haematological toxicities may be an advantage in others.
Furthermore, a low level of non-haematological toxicity makes carboplatin
suitable for inclusion in high-dose regimens with bone marrow or stem cell
rescue.
Pharmacokinetic interactions with carboplatin
Unlike cisplatin, carboplatin does not affect hepatic cytochrome P450
enzyme, and pharmacokinetic interactions with other drugs seem to
be rare.
Summary
Carboplatin has major advantages over cisplatin, in terms of ease of administration and non-haematological toxicities, although the higher incidence of
thrombocytopenia may be a problem in some circumstances. In the main,
it can be regarded as an alternative to cisplatin, but current data suggest
cisplatin should still be used for treating testicular teratoma. Unlike cisplatin,
carboplatin can be used in high-dose regimens. Carboplatin should generally
be dosed on a pharmacokinetic basis.

Cisplatin
Mechanism of action
Cisplatin binds directly to DNA, inhibiting synthesis by altering the DNA
template via the formation of intra-strand and inter-strand cross-links.
These cross-links are generated by an aquated complex that acts
as a bifunctional alkylating agent. Cytotoxic effects of cisplatin are cell
cycle-independent, and synergy between cisplatin and anti-metabolites has
been demonstrated both in vitro and in clinical trials. The mechanism behind
this synergy has not been fully explained; the most commonly held hypothesis is that this is due to a malfunction in DNA repair processing.
Side effects of cisplatin
Cisplatin is highly emetogenic. It produces a dose-dependent nephrotoxicity; it can also cause peripheral neuropathy, and, due to ototoxicity, it can
produce tinnitus and high-tone deafness. Cisplatin is not very toxic to white
cells or platelets but has the propensity to cause anaemia.
Dosage of cisplatin
Cisplatin is used in a variety of dosage schedules. The standard dose limit is
100mg/m2 as a single daily dose; higher doses have been explored in clinical trials, particularly in conjunction with neuroprotective agents. Alternate
schedules, such as five daily injections of 20mg/m2, are favoured in the
treatment of teratoma.
The initial clearance of cisplatin is rapid, followed by a much slower
decline due to binding to plasma proteins. Clearance is prolonged in patients
with renal insufficiency. Unlike carboplatin, there is no clear evidence of a
pharmacodynamic/pharmacokinetic relationship with cisplatin; therefore,
dosage is usually based on empirical body surface calculations.

95

96

Chapter 5

Principles of chemotherapy

Clinical indications for cisplatin
Cisplatin has been a major step forward in the treatment of testicular cancer. In patients with metastatic disease, cisplatin-based combination therapy results in a complete clinical response in over 80% of patients, with
the majority of these achieving long-term cure. Cisplatin is also a major
component of treatment of ovarian cancer, genitourinary tumours, and
other squamous carcinomas, particularly those in the head and neck and
non-small-cell bronchogenic carcinoma.
Combinations of cisplatin with other cytotoxic agents are common and
are used in a variety of human solid cancers and paediatric tumours.

Oxaliplatin
Oxaliplatin is a platinum analogue that differs from carboplatin and cisplatin,
in both chemical behaviour and possibly its mechanism of action. In vitro
oxaliplatin has a broad spectrum of activity, with marked differences from
the spectrum seen with cisplatin or carboplatin. In clinical practice, it is used
extensively in colorectal cancer, both in the adjuvant and advanced disease
settings. It has broad-spectrum activity and is also used in many other cancer types such as upper GI. Unfortunately, its cumulative dosage is limited
by the development of a characteristic peripheral neuropathy, which, in
most cases, is reversible on withdrawal of the drug.
Dosage of oxaliplatin
Two commonly used regimens exist:
• 85mg/m2 every 2wk as a 2–6h infusion
• 130mg/m2 over a similar length of time, repeated every 3wk.
However, a multitude of studies exist, using a variety of different dosing
regimens, including chronomodulated infusion together with fluorouracil.

Cisplatin and derivatives

97

98

Chapter 5

Principles of chemotherapy

Topoisomerase inhibitors
Topoisomerase enzymes are a family of nuclear proteins with essential
functions in regulating the topology of the DNA helix. Eukaryotics have
two forms of topoisomerase enzyme.
• Topoisomerase I (topo I) binds to double-stranded DNA and cleaves
and relegates one strand of duplex DNA. Relaxation of supercoiled
DNA is then used during processes of replication, transcription, and
recombination.
• Topo II creates transient double-stranded breakage of DNA, allowing
the subsequent passage of a second intact DNA duplex through
the break.

Topoisomerase I inhibitors
Camptothecin (CPT) has been identified as the active constituent of an
extract isolated from the Chinese tree Camptotheca acuminata. Mechanism
of action studies demonstrated that CPT stabilized covalent adducts
between genomic DNA and topo I. Early clinical studies with CPT observed
anti-tumour activity in a variety of common solid tumours. However, a high
rate of severe and unpredictable toxicities led to the discontinuation of the
development of CPT.
To date, two main derivatives have been licensed—irinotecan and
topotecan.
Both agents can be administered in a variety of IV schedules, with claimed
differences in response and/or toxicity profiles.
Side effects
• Neutropenia—common.
• Diarrhoea—common (early or late).
• Thrombocytopenia.
• Anaemia.
• Alopecia.
• Nausea, vomiting.
Clinical pharmacology
Both CPT-11 and topotecan can be absorbed orally, with topotecan bioavailability of 30–50%; both are widely distributed throughout the body,
with CSF topotecan concentrations 30–50% of simultaneous plasma
concentrations.
Topotecan undergoes negligible metabolism and is primarily eliminated
by the kidneys, with evidence for renal tubular secretion. A linear relationship between creatinine clearance and clearance of both total topotecan
and lactone forms has been demonstrated.
CPT-11 is in itself relatively inactive and must be converted by carboxylesterases to 7-ethyl10-hydroxycampothecin (SN-38), which has potent
topoI inhibitory activity. Glucuronidation and biliary excretion are the principal mechanisms of elimination for SN-38. Particular caution and dose
reduction are recommended for patients with liver dysfunction or Gilbert’s
syndrome.

Topoisomerase inhibitors

Topoisomerase II inhibitors
Etoposide and teniposide exert their action on topo II by:
• inhibiting the ability of the enzyme to relegate the cleaved DNA complex
• generating high levels of DNA with potentially toxic
double-stranded breaks
• promoting mutation
• permanent double-stranded breaks
• illegitimate recombination
• apoptosis.
Etoposide and teniposide are poorly water-soluble and are formulated with
a number of excipients, including polysorbate (etoposide) or Cremophor®
EL (teniposide). Etoposide can be administered by either oral or IV routes,
and teniposide only by IV injection.
Teniposide and etoposide are widely used in the treatment of adult
and paediatric malignancies. Etoposide has been more broadly used in
front-line therapy, particularly for small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) and germ
cell tumours.
The pattern of toxicity is very similar between both agents and includes
neutropenia, alopecia, mucositis, infusion-related blood pressure (BP)
changes, and hypersensitivity reactions. Teniposide is not licensed for use
in the UK.
Clinical pharmacology
Etoposide absorption appears to be non-linear, with decreased bioavailability at doses above 200mg. Both etoposide and teniposide are heavily
protein-bound; use in patients with low albumin concentrations will result
in greater than expected systemic toxicity due to the larger free (unbound)
drug concentrations.
Both etoposide and teniposide are extensively metabolized. Etoposide
is more rapidly eliminated than teniposide. Linear relationships between
etoposide systemic clearance and creatinine clearance have been described
for both adult and paediatric patients.

99

100

Chapter 5

Principles of chemotherapy

Anti-microtubule agents
Tubulin-interactive agents, commonly known as ‘spindle poisons’, have a
long history of use in cancer treatment. They act by binding to specific sites
on tubulin, a protein that polymerizes to form cellular microtubules.
Table 5.1 focuses on important anti-microtubule agents in clinical use.
Tubulin is an important target for anti-cancer drug development; several
anti-tubulin agents have significant anti-cancer activity in the clinic. The taxanes (paclitaxel and docetaxel) were the most encouraging development in
anti-cancer chemotherapy of the 1990s.
Recent progress observed with taxanes has led to renewed interest
in anti-microtubule analogues or drugs interacting with different sites on
tubulin. In particular, agents with an improved pharmacological profile and/
or activity in vinca/taxane-resistant cell lines are of interest. Several new
anti-tubulin agents are in preclinical development, and methods of enhancing the cellular delivery of taxanes, whilst avoiding the toxic side effects, are
the focus of many drug development efforts.

Useful indications

Leukaemias, lymphomas,
paediatric tumours, SCLC,
multiple myeloma

Lymphomas, germ cell
tumours, KS, breast
cancer

NSCLC, breast cancer,
prostate, lymphomas

NSCLC, breast cancer

Class of spindle
poison (mechanism
of action)

Vincristine (VCR)
(destabilization of
polymerized tubulin
(β-tubulin))

Vinblastine (VBL)
(same as VCR)

Vindesine (VDS)
(same as VCR)

Vinorelbine (NVB)
(same as VCR)

Table 5.1 Anti-microtubule agents

25–30wk combinations:
cisplatin (NSCLC) and
doxorubicin or fluorouracil
(breast); oral form in clinical
development

2–4 q 1–3wk

6–10 q 2–4wk

0.5–1.4 q 1–4wk (maximum
total individual dose: 2mg)

Drug administration (IV
doses in mg/m2)

Neutropenia,
constipation,
neuropathy

Neutropenia,
neuropathy

Neutropenia,
neuropathy

Neuropathy

Metabolized in the
liver

Metabolized in the
liver

Metabolized in the
liver

Metabolized in the
liver

Main toxicities Pharmacokinetics
and metabolism

(continued)

NVB not active and associated
with severe neurotoxicity in
paclitaxel pre-treated breast
cancer patients

Selective binding to the tau family
of microtubule-associated proteins
l tubulin aggregation into spirals
and paracrystals

Randomized trials (breast, NSCLC,
sarcomas, and melanoma) with
VDS showed no advantage over
treatments without VDS

Neuropathy occurs less frequently
than with VCR

VCR induces MDR by Pgp.
Mutations in α- and β-tubulin
proteins enhance stability against
depolymerization

Comments of clinical interest

Anti-microtubule agents

101

Breast cancer, lung
100 (1h) q 3wk, 75 q 3wk
cancer (other tumours).
(if elevated LFTs). Weekly
Reproducible anti-tumour schedule is under investigation
activity (response
rate 35–50%) in
anthracycline- resistant
breast cancer stimulated
further clinical development

Docetaxel
(D) (microtubule
stabilizer)

Neutropenia,
fluid retention
syndrome
(FRS)

Neutropenia,
neurotoxicity

Metabolized in the
liver

Metabolized in
the liver. Cisplatin
l P: severe
neutropenia; P l
doxorubicin: more
mucositis than the
reverse sequence

Main toxicities Pharmacokinetics
and metabolism

Steroid pre-medication reduces
and delays FRS. Tau and β4-tubulin
expression correlate with D
sensitivity in adenocarcinoma
models

Toxicities are sequence- and
schedule-dependent. Steroid
pre-medication is used to reduce
hypersensitivity reactions.
Water-soluble analogues and derivatives active in resistant cells of P
are under development. Mutations
in p53 cell lines confer sensitization
to P. Resistance to P due to Pgp
and/or alterations in the expression or structure of β-tubulin

Comments of clinical interest

Chapter 5

135 (24h)–175 (3h) q
3wk. Weekly schedule
is under investigation.
Combinations: mainly with
cisplatin or carboplatin (ovary)
and doxorubicin (breast)

Ovarian, breast, and
lung cancers (other
tumours). Reproducible
anti-tumour activity
(response rate 15–25%) in
platinum-resistant ovarian
cancer stimulated further
clinical development

Paclitaxel
(P) (microtubule
stabilizer) (also
anti-angiogenesis
effect, disruption
of Ki-Ras function,
apoptosis induction
by phosphorylation
of bcl-2)

Drug administration (IV
doses in mg/m2)

Useful indications

Class of spindle
poison (mechanism
of action)

Table 5.1 (contd.)

102

Principles of chemotherapy

Useful indications

Prostate cancer

Class of spindle
poison (mechanism
of action)

Estramustine
phosphate (EP) (binds
to the microtubuleassociated proteins to
promote microtubule
disassembly)

560mg × 2/day orally (with
meal)

Drug administration (IV
doses in mg/m2)
GI

75% of oral EP is
absorbed. Terminal
half-life: 20–40h

Main toxicities Pharmacokinetics
and metabolism
Most responses observed in
prostate cancer were subjective
(objective response rate 710%).
EP has been combined with other
anti-microtubules (P, VBL) and
etoposide, with a clinical benefit in
30–60% of patients. Overexpression
of β(III and IVa)-tubulin and tau may
play a role in resistance to EP

Comments of clinical interest

Anti-microtubule agents

103

104

Chapter 5

Principles of chemotherapy

Drug resistance
Most of the basic research into drug resistance has involved using pairs
of sensitive and resistant tumour cells derived from the same parental
cell line, usually by serial passage in increasing concentrations of the drug
under investigation. This is an artificial situation, which often results in resistance that is really very substantial, with concentration variants in excess of
40–100-fold sometimes required to overcome such resistance. It is unclear
whether this laboratory-derived resistance correlates with the types of
clinical resistance that are outlined previously.

Pharmacological resistance
The underlying concept of pharmacological resistance is that the dose of
chemotherapy that can be safely given is insufficient to result in an effective
concentration of the active drug at its target site. This may be due to:
• toxicity in other organs
• enhanced clearance of drugs
• physical barrier between the bloodstream and tumour cells (many
tumours have avascular centres)
• de novo resistance—the tumour does not respond despite full-dose
chemotherapy
• acquired resistance—initial response to chemotherapy, then the tumour
fails to respond and regrows
• combination of de novo and acquired.

Alteration of target or transport mechanisms
Tumour cells have the ability to mutate, such that the drug is either not
taken up by the cell or, having been taken up, is detoxified more rapidly than
normal. Alternatively, the actual target of the drug may change by mutation, such that it becomes impervious to the form of attack. Or the normal repair mechanisms that are present in all mammalian cells may become
more active and repair damage produced by a cytotoxic agent in a more
efficient manner, resulting in overall resistance to the agent.

Classical multidrug resistance
‘Classical’ drug resistance has been the most studied form of this phenomenon in the laboratory and results from the overexpression of a 170Da
glycoprotein known as P-170 glycoprotein (Pgp). This spans the outer cell
membrane and acts as an energy-dependent drug efflux pump. Thus, as the
drug enters the tumour cell by diffusion or transport, the drug in the interior
of the cell is picked up and effluxed into the extracellular environment. This
reduces the effective concentration of the drug within the cell and allows
the cell to express resistance to the agent in question.
The development of this form of resistance is most commonly associated
with exposure to the anti-tumour antibiotics, the anthracyclines, taxanes,
and etoposide. In fact, resistance to one of this group of agents usually
confers resistance to the other groups in addition, thereby leading to the
phenomenon of ‘multidrug resistance’.

Drug resistance

Multidrug resistance-associated protein
This protein is one member of a family of proteins that also act as
energy-dependent pumps, in this case resulting in drug efflux or sequestration of the drug within intracytoplasmic organelles or vacuoles. The most
studied member of this family of proteins is a 190kDa protein that has a
similar substrate specificity to Pgp but is usually associated with less resistance to the taxanes. The clinical relevance of this form of resistance is less
clear than with Pgp.

Glutathione
Glutathione is the predominant cellular thiol and participates in a complex
biochemical pathway that interacts with the alkylating function of some
agents (including cisplatin). Glutathione overexpression in cell lines results in
relative resistance to alkylating agent attack. In addition, glutathione is able
to detoxify free radicals, which may be an important pathway of action for
some cytotoxics, including doxorubicin. Clinical trials of glutathione depletion have been performed with somewhat equivocal results.

Failure to engage apoptosis
The common final pathway of cell death for many cytotoxics is apoptosis.
This is an active process within cells, somewhat akin to ‘cell suicide’. The
engagement of the apoptosis programme is a complex interacting pathway.
At the centre of this is p53, the so-called ‘guardian of the genome’. In cells
that are unable to engage apoptosis, the damage done by cytotoxics can be
‘ignored’, and cell division continues. This results in clinical drug resistance.
Gene therapy approaches to correct this apoptosis failure are being actively
investigated.

Summary
Clinical drug resistance is a major problem in oncology, and the underlying mechanisms are multifactorial. In any one patient, it is unclear to what
extent each mechanism contributes. Nevertheless, the potential clinical benefits of mechanisms to circumvent drug resistance are enormous.
Undoubtedly, other mechanisms of drug resistance will be found, as we
come to understand more about the regulation of cell cycle, cell life, and
cell death.

105

106

Chapter 5

Principles of chemotherapy

Dose intensification
Dose–response
The strategy of therapeutic dose intensification in oncology has been largely
driven by experimental evidence suggesting that the drug resistance of cancer cells is often relative. Results of studies indicate that arbitrary dose
reduction should be avoided and suggest that clinicians should consider the
use of prophylactic antibiotics, haemopoietic growth factors, etc. in situations where neutropenia and its complications threaten to undermine the
timely delivery of potentially curative chemotherapy.

High-dose chemotherapy with haemopoietic support
In the clinic, dose escalation within a ‘conventional’ range has an inconsistent effect on response rates and, with some exceptions, a negligible survival
impact. Dose escalation is complicated by increased toxicity. Substantial
advances in haemopoietic support have allowed the investigation of high
doses of chemotherapy in the clinic. Autografting, using either autologous
marrow or cytokine-mobilized peripheral blood progenitors (PBPs), is
seen to facilitate the administration of high doses of those drugs that are
dose-limited by myelosuppression.
It was also discovered that administration of these factors, either at
steady state or following myelosuppressive chemotherapy, resulted in the
mobilization of haemopoietic progenitors from the bone marrow into
peripheral blood. These ‘PBPs’ could be harvested by leucopheresis, then
re-infused as haemopoietic rescue, following subsequent high-dose chemotherapy (HDC). PBP autografting is superior to marrow autografting, with
shortened neutropenia and thrombocytopenia, and reduced mortality and
morbidity.
Historically, HDC has generally been given as a form of consolidation,
following conventional chemotherapy. Less frequently, it has been studied
as ° treatment. It can be administered in single or multiple cycles.

Role of high-dose chemotherapy in the treatment of
specific tumours
• Relapsed aggressive lymphoma—proven salvage treatment.
• Refractory lymphoma—10% remission.
•	Poor prognosis NHL—first-line treatment.
• Multiple myeloma—first-line treatment.
• Relapsed refractory Hodgkin’s disease—first-line treatment.
• Acute leukaemia—especially if no donor.
• Metastatic testicular germ cell tumours—relapse after second remission.

Accelerated chemotherapy
An alternative approach to dose intensification is to shorten the interval
between cycles of conventional chemotherapy, usually though granulocyte
colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) support. Preliminary results with this
approach in adjuvant chemotherapy for high-risk breast cancer have been
promising, but this approach is still considered experimental.

Dose intensification

107

108

Chapter 5

Principles of chemotherapy

Chemo-irradiation
Chemotherapy and radiotherapy are complementary; the integration of
these treatment modalities underpins the successful treatment of a number
of tumours. Chemotherapy reduces the burden of local diseases and eradicates systemic micrometastases, but effective loco-regional tumour control
in some situations requires irradiation.

Sequential combined therapy
The traditional approach to combining chemotherapy and radiotherapy
has been to attempt to predict whether the eradication of systemic disease or local tumour control is of the most immediate concern, then to
deliver the appropriate treatment first; the other treatment is delayed until
completion of the first. The main difficulties are the uncertain behaviour of
individual tumours and the inevitable delay in delivery of one treatment.
Chemotherapy as the first-line treatment has the added potential benefit
that, in downstaging the tumour, it may reduce both the volume of tissue
that requires irradiation and the radiation dose required to control the
tumour.

Concurrent combined therapy
Problems are avoided by delivering chemotherapy and radiotherapy
together. This approach has advantages and some disadvantages (see
Table 5.2).
Ideally, cytotoxics chosen for chemo-irradiation regimens will have
known activity against the tumour but will not have toxicities that overlap
the effects of irradiation of the relevant region. Agents, such as cisplatin
and fluorouracil, are particularly attractive because of their radiosensitizing
effects. At least in vitro, the interactions of chemotherapy and radiotherapy
are complex and schedule-dependent. An attempt must be made to minimize the normal tissue damage of radiation during combined therapy.
Table 5.2 Benefits and problems of concurrent combined therapy
Advantage

Disadvantage

No delay in either therapy

Increased toxicity

Additive cell kill by two therapies

Compromised dose of one or both
treatments

Enhanced cell kill by radiosensitizing
effects of chemotherapy

Large volume irradiated

Reduced likelihood of evolution of
resistance to either therapy

Pharmacodynamic interactions (e.g.
cell cycle effects)

Chemo-irradiation

Anal and bladder carcinomas
For both these pelvic malignancies, chemo-irradiation offers the possibility
of organ preservation and avoidance of a stoma. There is good evidence
that pelvic irradiation, with concurrent fluorouracil and mitomycin, is the
best established therapy for anal carcinoma. The combination of pelvic radiotherapy and cisplatin-based chemotherapy has proven successful in large
phase II studies in muscle-invading transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder.

Head and neck cancer and oesophageal cancer
Chemo-irradiation of intrathoracic tumours is hindered by the risk of serious
morbidity, in particular, pneumonitis and oesophagitis. Chemo-irradiation is
superior to radiation therapy alone for oesophageal cancer, but local failure
rates remain high. Surgery after combined treatment may be the answer to
this problem.
° chemo-radiotherapy of head and neck cancers is widely used and can
result in good response rates with some cures. This approach has some
advantages over more radical surgical excision because of the possibility
of organ and function preservation, with resultant reduction of morbidity.
Surgical salvage can then be reserved for non-responding or relapsing cases.

Rectal cancer
There is now clear evidence that the combination of fluoropyrimidine-based
chemotherapy with EBRT leads to improved local control and enhanced
survival. There remains an area of controversy over the use of preoperative
chemo-radiation versus the use of the same in the post-operative phase for
selected patients.

Non-small-cell lung cancer
There is some controversy over the place of combined or sequential
chemo-radiation in NSCLC. Clinical studies have shown modest outcome
benefits, but at the cost of more toxicity and morbidity.

109

Chapter 6

Principles of symptom
control in palliative care
Introduction 112
Symptom control 115
Pain management 116
Nausea and vomiting 126
Hiccup 134
Constipation 136
Diarrhoea 138
Cachexia and anorexia 140
Respiratory symptoms 142
Pruritus 146
Lymphoedema 148
Mouth care 150
Control of psychological distress 153
Symptom control at the end of life 154
Integrated care pathway 156
Further reading 156

111

112

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Introduction
‘Palliative care is an approach that improves the quality of life of patients
and their families facing the problem associated with life-threatening
illness, through the prevention and relief of suffering by means of early
identification and impeccable assessment and treatment of pain and
other problems, physical, psychosocial and spiritual.’
(World Health Organization 2008 Definition of palliative care,
M http://www.who.int/cancer/palliative/definition/en/)

•	The majority of metastatic solid tumours in adults are incurable.
• Once diagnosed with a cancer, the optimal management of patients
requires full involvement of the MDT from the point of diagnosis—often
including the palliative care services.
•	The goal of most treatment is to:
• palliate symptoms
• maximize QoL.
•	To achieve these goals, the team should aim to ensure that:
• the patient is able to benefit from the whole range of specialist
medical, psychological, spiritual, and social interventions on offer
• the patient is helped to ‘live alongside their cancer’—to live as
actively as possible until death
• the apparent transition from ‘active’ oncological input to so-called
‘terminal care’ is managed in such a way as to cause minimal distress
to both patient and relatives
• both patient and carers feel supported during the course of the
illness, with ongoing support subsequently available to bereaved
relatives.

‘The system’
• From diagnosis until death, it is likely that the patient will come into
contact with multiple medical specialties and parallel organizations.
•	The apparent complexity of the system can be bewildering for patients
and carers. This is exacerbated if:
• reaching the diagnosis was not straightforward
• the hospital is split-site
• a tertiary referral centre is involved.
•	The aim is for a patient to feel that their investigations and subsequent
treatment are delivered in a coordinated and logical manner, that
continuity is maintained between appointments, and that they always
know to whom to turn when faced with an unexpected event.
• Inherent limitations in communication between departments, the
availability of medical notes, etc. have been minimized with the
development of the MDT, the introduction of acute oncology services,
and the introduction of the clinical nurse specialist (CNS).

Problems with information giving and breaking bad news
• Poor communication and breaking bad news are consistently mentioned by
patients and families as causes of stress and dissatisfaction.

Introduction

• Common issues include patients leaving consultations:
• unclear of their precise diagnosis/prognosis
• unsure about the likely therapeutic benefits of treatment
• wanting more information than has been provided.
• It is important to establish how much information the patient would like
at each stage of their illness. Information giving should be tailored to the
patient.
• It is increasingly common for letters dictated by the team after hospital
appointments to be copied to the patient. These can often be a useful
way of summarizing discussions from the visit, but check with the
patient that they are happy to receive the letters.
•	The number of patients who genuinely prefer to have little information
and to leave everything up to the doctor (paternalistic model) is
probably <5%.
• Dissatisfaction about the amount of information provided has a
tendency to cause greater difficulty adjusting to the diagnosis, and
consequently higher rates of anxiety and depression.
• Good communication reduces psychological morbidity by:
• building trust
• reducing uncertainty
• allowing appropriate adjustment (practical and emotional).
• Breaking bad news is not an isolated event. It is an ongoing and recurring
process which involves informing the patient and their family of the
diagnosis, updating them on their progress, and ultimately preparing
them for death.
Breaking bad news: a ten-step approach
This approach can be used as a general framework and adapted for specific
situations. Remember a patient has a right, but not a duty, to hear bad news.
1. Preparation—know the facts. Arrange the meeting. Find out who the
patient wants to be present. Arrange not to be disturbed (turn off
bleeps).
2.	Establish what the patient already knows. Both doctors and the family
generally underestimate the level of the patient’s knowledge.
3.	Establish whether the patient wants more information.
4.	Allow denial. Denial is a defence and a way of coping. Allow the
patient to control the amount of information.
5. Give a warning shot. This allows the patient time to consider their own
reactions and whether they feel able to ask for more information.
6.	Explain, if requested. Be clear and simple. Avoid harsh statements and
medical jargon. Check understanding. Be as optimistic as possible.
7. Listen to concerns. Avoid premature reassurance.
8.	Encourage the ventilation of feelings.
9. Summarize and make a plan—this minimizes confusion and
uncertainty.
10. Offer availability. Communicating bad news is an ongoing process.
Include time for questions; ideally, provide written information, and give
details of a contact person (often a CNS) who can be available to answer
any queries that arise later. Be clear about the next appointment or
investigation—its time, place, and purpose.

113

114

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Uncertainty
•	Uncertainty is one of the most difficult problems for the human psyche
to bear.
• It is a state in which most patients with cancer remain from the time
they discover sinister symptoms and undergo diagnostic tests, until they
complete treatment.
• Doctors are faced with a dilemma when trying to offer reassurance to
an anxious patient, whilst being honest about an enigmatic disease with
an uncertain outcome.
• It can be especially problematic when discussing clinical trials where
uncertainty about the efficacy of treatment is inherent but must be
discussed in order to gain informed consent.
•	There is often fear of potential:
• discomfort
• disfigurement
• disability
• dependency
• death.
• Valid concerns can be acknowledged and addressed. Conversely,
the clinician must be alert to misconceptions or unfounded
fears—reassurance may be possible.

Discharge from follow-up
• Paradoxically, it is when the treatment ends that a patient may be in
greatest need of support in re-appraising their lives and coping with
‘survivorship’.
• Patients often gain (false) reassurance from surveillance programmes
and may feel unsupported when regular specialist contact ends.
•	This is exacerbated by the fact that there are few adult malignancies
from which patients can be given the ‘all clear’. Patients must cope with
an ongoing risk of relapse.
• Sometimes, this uncertainty is almost too much to cope with. It may
generate frequent requests for review and investigations. Conversely, it
may cause withdrawal and isolation.

Symptom control

Symptom control
For medical professionals involved in the day-to-day (and out-of-hours)
management of patients with cancer, a large part of the clinical responsibility involves the assessment and treatment of a range of symptoms.
Symptoms may be:
• directly attributable to the cancer
• a side effect or toxicity of palliative treatment
• physical, psychosocial, emotional, or spiritual
• due to an unrelated condition.
Therefore, each symptom requires careful assessment, so that the most
appropriate management strategy can be adopted.

115

116

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Pain management
• Pain control is an obvious priority for patients with cancer, whether
embarking on curative or palliative treatment.
• 780% of pain due to cancer can be relieved with simple oral analgesics
and adjuvant drugs, in accordance with World Health Organization
(WHO) guidelines.
•	The optimal management of cancer pain is effective treatment of the
underlying disease. In the palliative setting, analgesic use is an established
method of assessing response to anti-cancer therapy.
• Inadequate pain control may exacerbate many other problems, including:
• fatigue
• anorexia and nausea
• constipation
• depression, anxiety, and hopelessness
• compliance with anti-cancer treatment.
Common causes of uncontrolled cancer pain include:
• lack of sophistication in patient assessment
• misdiagnosis of the mechanism of pain
• failure to detect general distress, which lowers the pain threshold
• if pain distress exceeds pain severity, then analgesia will be insufficient
• failure to adopt a systematic approach to analgesia
• an understanding of the WHO analgesic ladder is required
• this includes a logical approach to the use of adjuvant analgesics
• poor understanding of opioid pharmacology
• titration of opioids should be structured
• doses given ‘as required’ (prn) should be appropriately proportionate
• side effects should be anticipated, and prophylactic supportive
medication prescribed.

Categories of cancer pain
The importance of taking a good history cannot be overemphasized in pain
management, as it allows the medical team to assess the likely mechanism(s)
of pain, and therefore to select treatment accordingly.
Is the pain acute or chronic?
A diagnosis of cancer is not necessarily sufficient reason for a person to be
in pain. Pain of sudden onset may suggest an acute complication of either
the malignancy or the treatment for that malignancy, or of an unrelated
cause, e.g. a new pathological fracture potentially requiring orthopaedic fixation, an acute intra-abdominal event necessitating surgical review, mucositis due to recent or ongoing chemo- and/or radiotherapy.
Conversely, chronic escalating pain may represent an underlying disease
progression, e.g. soft tissue or nerve root infiltration.
What is the nature of the pain?
• Somatic—typically localized and persistent, e.g. bone metastases,
localized inflammation such as cellulitis.
• Visceral—usually poorly localized, of variable intensity, and often with
associated symptoms such as nausea, e.g. liver capsular stretch due to
hepatic metastases, malignant abdominal lymphadenopathy, or smooth
muscle spasm causing colic (bowel, bladder, renal, or biliary).

Pain management

• Neuropathic—classically described as ‘shooting or burning pain’, usually
following a dermatomal distribution, e.g. compression of a spinal nerve root.
What is the patient’s interpretation of the pain?
Pain perception has a strong affective component and is greatly influenced
by mood and morale. An understanding of the patient’s interpretation of
his/her own pain will help to formulate a realistic management plan. For
instance, do they have specific anxieties related to this new pain? Perhaps
it has adversely affected their level of functioning, or maybe they view it
as heralding the final stages of their illness. Addressing any anger, fear, or
distress will increase the likelihood of achieving satisfactory pain control.

Pharmacological pain relief
The use of the WHO analgesic ladder is based upon a number of simple
principles:
• the strength of analgesia depends on the severity of the pain, rather than
the stage of disease
• the medication should be prescribed regularly ‘around the clock’,
with the aim of preventing pain from reoccurring. Appropriate prn
medication must also be available for breakthrough pain at a dose that
reflects the background regularly prescribed dose
• a single drug is rarely sufficient
• initiate the treatment with immediate-release formulations, and then
switch to sustained-release formulations, once the pain is controlled and
the dose has stabilized
• opioids are often used in combination with non-opioids
• adjuvant analgesia is chosen according to the cause and type of pain
• the WHO analgesic ladder is summarized in Fig. 6.1.

WHO analgesic ladder
Freedom from cancer pain

Step 3: Opioid for moderate to severe pain
+ step 1 non-opioids +/– adjuvants
Pain persisting or increasing

Step 2: Opioid for mild to moderate pain
+ step 1 non-opioids +/– adjuvants
Pain persisting or increasing

Step 1: Non-opioid for mild pain
Paracetamol +/– NSAID +/– adjuvants
Pain

Fig. 6.1 The WHO analgesic ‘ladder’.
Adapted from a slide by Flora Watson.

117

118

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Step 1. Non-opioid analgesia
Paracetamol
• Well tolerated.
•	Acts centrally.
• Non-opioid analgesic and antipyretic.
• No anti-inflammatory action.
•	Adverse reactions are rare at prescribed doses, i.e. up to 1g qds.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
• Important role in the management of cancer pain.
• Often used in combination with paracetamol (may have a synergistic
action) ± weak or strong opioids.
• If used continuously for weeks/months, be alert to the risks of:
• gastric irritation—especially if also taking steroids
• renal dysfunction.
•	The most frequently prescribed are ibuprofen and diclofenac. Some
units use naproxen, accepting the greater risk of GI morbidity.
Step 2. Weak opioid analgesics
The patient should continue with their regular non-opioid analgesics. If
pain is not adequately controlled, then a regular weak opioid agonist can
be added.
Codeine
• Methyl morphine, a pro-drug of morphine, metabolized to low-dose
morphine.
• Demethylated by the CYP3A3/4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzyme systems,
yielding around 10% morphine. 710% of Caucasians lack the enzyme and
therefore do not respond to codeine. In patients who do respond, there
remains substantial inter-individual variability in the analgesic response
to codeine.
• Sub-therapeutic doses of codeine can often be found in over-thecounter (OTC) preparations (<30mg/tablet) and should be avoided.
Dihydrocodeine
•	An analgesic in its own right. Does not depend upon the conversion to
morphine for its analgesic activity.
• Low oral bioavailability and is therefore similar, mg for mg, to codeine
when taken orally (one-tenth of the potency of morphine).
Tramadol
•	Acts centrally.
• Works through both opioid receptors and serotonergic/noradrenergic
inhibitory mechanisms, similar to antidepressants.
• Like codeine, 5–10% of Caucasians in Europe lack the CYP2D6 enzyme,
in which case tramadol has little or no analgesic activity.
Step 3. Strong opioid analgesics
• If pain remains uncontrolled with a combination of regular non-opioid
and weak opioid analgesics, continue the non-opioid, but substitute a
strong opioid for the weak opioid agonist.
•	The strong opioid of choice remains morphine administered orally.

Pain management

•	The body’s endogenous opioid system consists of three peptide families:
• enkephalins
• endorphins
• dynorphins.
•	Each of the three peptide families has different receptor affinities for the
mu, kappa, and delta receptors. These receptors are widely distributed
throughout the CNS, particularly within the periaqueductal grey matter
and throughout the spinal cord.
• Similarly, different exogenous opioid drugs prescribed to control pain
exhibit different receptor affinities for these three opioid receptors. The
differing efficacy and side effect profiles of different opioid drugs is, in
part, due to these differences.
Opioid titration on oral morphine
•	Titration should be initiated with a 4-hourly dose of immediate-release
morphine (solution or tablets).
•	The starting dose should be higher than the current medication.
• If moving up from step 2, then 10mg every 4h and for breakthrough
might be suitable.
•	The frail and elderly might require titration from a lower dose, e.g. 5mg
4-hourly.
• Increase the dose by 30–50% each day, until the pain is controlled.
• Once a stable dose is achieved, convert to either a 12-hourly (bd) or
24-hourly (od) modified-release morphine preparation. This provides
the continuous background analgesia and should be accompanied
by a prescription for normal-release morphine available for
breakthrough pain.
•	This prn dose should be one-sixth of the total 24h dose.
• In renal impairment, a smaller, less frequent dose may be appropriate.
•	Titration can continue, once a patient has commenced modified-release
morphine. The continued use of breakthrough medication is an indication
that adequate pain control has not been achieved, and the titration should
continue in steps of 30–50% every 24–48h. It is not good practice to
simply add up the breakthrough requirements in a 24h period and add
them into the total 24-hourly background modified-release dose. If a lot
of breakthrough medication has been used, this might lead to a doubling
(or more) of the daily opioid dose, which is never good practice. The risk
of precipitating opioid toxicity is very high, especially if there is a degree of
renal impairment.
Common side effects on initiating opioid therapy
• Nausea:
• common during the titration phase
• due to i drug levels within the blood, stimulating the area postrema;
d gastric motility, leading to gastroparesis (delayed gastric emptying);
constipation
• tends to settle, once a stable dose of morphine is achieved
• can be helped with a prokinetic anti-emetic (e.g. domperidone
10–120mg qds)
• occasionally, a more potent dopamine antagonist is required (e.g.
haloperidol 1.5–3mg nocte, or 1.5mg bd (main side effect is drowsiness).

119

120

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

• Constipation:
• most effectively managed with a combination of stimulant and
softening laxative, with the dose titrated to effect
• e.g. regular co-danthramer or co-danthrusate.
• Drowsiness:
• typically improves after a few days, following the commencement of
opioid or following titration to a stable dose.
• Dry mouth:
• see E Mouth care, p. 150.
Morphine has an oral bioavailability of about 30% and undergoes extensive
first-pass metabolism, and its metabolites (which are active) are excreted
in the urine. Requirements vary greatly from patient to patient. It is important that the prn dose remains one-sixth to the daily morphine dose (as
described in E Opioid titration on oral morphine, p. 119). Clinical practice and evidence from trials tell us that opioid responsiveness is a continuum, and no pain can be predicted as opioid-unresponsive. However,
certain types of pain require larger doses of opioids and can be poorly
opioid-responsive. Unacceptable side effects, such as sedation and hallucinations, can then be reached, before adequate pain control is achieved. It is
in these situations, where the gap between efficacy and toxicity is narrow,
that adjuvant analgesics become particularly important, often in the management of neuropathic pain.
Opioid toxicity
•	The aim is to avoid opioid toxicity. Never increase the opioid dose by
≥50% at a time. It is bad practice to double a dose of opioid, and there
is never an indication to do this.
• It is very important to be able to recognize opioid toxicity and to take
immediate remedial action.
• High-risk patients for opioid toxicity include those:
• with renal impairment
• with severe liver disease
• in whom the dose has been escalated too quickly
• with vivid dreams.
• Symptoms of opioid toxicity include:
• vivid dreams
• hallucinations, e.g. crawling insects, vague shadows
• drowsiness
• (potentially subtle) agitation/confusion
• subtle paranoid delusions
• miosis (pinpoint pupils)
• myoclonic jerks (twitching)
• allodynia (non-painful stimuli causing pain)
• hyperalgesia (increased sensitivity to pain)
• respiratory depression (particularly if the drug is accumulating).
Managing opioid toxicity
• Reduce the opioid dose by 30–50%.
• In renal impairment, convert to short-acting (normal-release) opioid
preparations to minimize the risk of accumulation.
• Check biochemistry and calcium.

Pain management

• IV or subcutaneous (s/c) fluids may be indicated.
• Remember agitation and/or confusion can be misinterpreted as
uncontrolled pain, leading to further opioids being administered and
completing a vicious circle of opioid toxicity.
•	The use of naloxone is very rarely indicated for use in opioid toxicity, as it
will precipitate unacceptable and rapid pain escalation and distress.
Reasons for considering switch to alternate opioid
• Poor compliance via oral route.
• Intractable constipation.
• Poorly responsive pain and/or intolerable side effects.
Alternative strong opioids
• Morphine by s/c infusion:
• water-soluble
• 1g of morphine sulfate requires 24mL of water for injection to
dissolve
• twice the potency of oral morphine
• renal excretion of active metabolites.
• Diamorphine by s/c infusion:
• much more water- and fat-soluble than morphine
• 1g of diamorphine hydrochloride dissolves in 1.6mL of water for
injection, making it the drug of choice for small volume s/c infusions
• greater fat solubility, compared to morphine, explains increased
potency, penetrating the blood–brain barrier much more rapidly,
gaining access to the brain and spinal cord
• three times the potency when administered s/c, compared with oral
morphine
• renal excretion of active metabolites.
• Fentanyl:
• extremely lipid-soluble, with totally different drug distribution and
pharmacokinetics, compared to morphine
• 100–150 times the potency, compared to oral morphine
• lipid solubility permits transdermal administration. Controlled-release
transdermal patches are useful for stable controlled pain
• may cause less constipation and sedation
• opioid toxicity may be more subtle and difficult to spot
• the first patch requires cover with an alternative opioid, at least over
the first 12h
• less toxic in renal impairment
• affected by significant liver function impairment and CYP450 drug
interactions
• renal excretion of inactive metabolites.
• Alfentanil:
• similar to fentanyl
• highly lipid-soluble and suitable for continuous s/c infusion
• 30 times the potency of oral morphine
• ten times the potency of s/c diamorphine
• similar to fentanyl in renal and liver impairment.
• renal excretion of inactive metabolites.

121

122

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

• Oxycodone:
• similar molecule to morphine
• different receptor profile
• an alternative opioid when morphine poorly tolerated or intolerable
morphine side effects
• twice the potency of oral morphine
• CYP450 metabolism (potential drug interactions)
• renal excretion of active metabolites.
• Hydromorphone:
• structurally very similar to morphine
• 7.5 times as potent as oral morphine
• possibly less toxic in renal impairment
• renal excretion of (possibly) active metabolite.
• Methadone:
• oral alternative to morphine, with similar toxicity profile
• relative analgesic potency hard to predict
• no active renal metabolites; safe in all, but the most severe, renal
failure
• predominantly excreted faecally
• extensively metabolized in the liver and affected by CYP450 drug
interactions
• likely to accumulate in severe liver disease
• complicated pharmacokinetics, and different dosing schemes make
this a drug requiring experienced specialist supervision.
Opioid potencies relative to oral morphine and 24h equianalgesic
doses of opioids
One fentanyl ‘25’ patch provides 25 micrograms of fentanyl per hour or
600 micrograms every 24h. Potencies are given in Table 6.1.

Table 6.1 Opioid potencies and doses
Opioid

Potency (relative to
oral morphine)

24h dose

25 micrograms/h fentanyl patch

100–150 ×

One patch

Oral morphine

1×

60mg

s/c morphine

2×

30mg

s/c diamorphine

3×

20mg

Oral oxycodone

2×

30mg

Oral hydromorphone

7.5 ×

8mg

s/c alfentanil

30 ×

2mg

Pain management

Adjuvant analgesics
The use of adjuvant analgesics should be considered at every stage in
pain management. Adjuvants are not primarily analgesics themselves but,
when combined with analgesics, aim to improve pain control, often allowing opioid dose reduction, with fewer side effects. This may widen the gap
between efficacy and toxicity. Appropriate selection of therapy requires an
understanding of the mechanism of pain, e.g.:
• somatic
• visceral
• neuropathic
• mixed.
It is important to give each selection an appropriate trial of efficacy, but also
to be prepared to withdraw ineffective medication. Otherwise, the patient
could easily accumulate a vast array of tablets, requiring a complex timetable of administration without clear symptomatic benefit, but with a greatly
increased risk of adverse side effects.
Steroids
Indicated for:
• intracranial pressure (ICP)
• nerve root, spinal cord, or cauda equina compression
• distension of the liver capsule (due to metastatic disease or subcapsular
haemorrhage)
• soft tissue infiltration.
Dexamethasone, up to 16mg/day, may be indicated initially, although the
dose should be reviewed regularly and reduced to the minimum effective
dose as soon as possible. Common side effects or symptoms seen when
maintaining too high a dose for too long are:
• proximal myopathy affecting both upper and lower limbs
• fluid retention
• gastric irritation (from indigestion to haematemesis or perforation)
• insomnia and mood swings
• hyperglycaemia or deterioration in diabetic control
• iatrogenic Cushing’s syndrome.
Dexamethasone has fewer mineralocorticoid-related effects, whilst prednisolone has less glucocorticoid activity.
Other adjuvant drugs include:
• tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs)—useful in neuropathic pain, e.g.
amitriptyline or imipramine 10–25mg nocte, cautiously titrated upwards,
aiming for 75–100mg daily if tolerated (lower starting dose for the frail
and elderly). Anticholinergic side effects include sedation, confusion, dry
mouth, blurred vision, postural hypotension, constipation, and urinary
retention
• anticonvulsants—gabapentin is the only drug licensed for all types
of neuropathic pain. Alternative drugs include sodium valproate,
pregabalin, and carbamazepine. Anticonvulsants can be used instead of
TCAs or in combination if either agent on their own affords insufficient
pain control

123

124

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

• N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists—ketamine used
for severe neuropathic pain refractory to combined strong opioid,
antidepressant, and anti-epileptic. Central sensitization and wind-up pain
characterized by hyperalgesia and allodynia
• smooth muscle relaxants—hyoscine butyl bromide for colic of bowel,
urinary tract, or biliary tract, etc.
• benzodiazepines—for skeletal muscle spasm or neuropathic pain
• bisphosphonates—there is evidence from randomized placebo-controlled
trials that bisphosphonates reduce pain due to skeletal metastatic
disease in breast, prostate, and lung cancers and reduce bone-related
complications such as pathological fractures. They also have a role in
multiple myeloma. Analgesic effect takes up to 2wk to develop. Their
role in other malignancies remains to be established. Treatment is
currently IV (e.g. pamidronate or zoledronic acid on a 3–4-weekly
schedule), although work continues to develop an oral agent with
equivalent efficacy. Renal function and serum calcium (risk of
hypocalcaemia) need to be monitored.

Other interventions
Anaesthetic techniques
• Peripheral nerve block—e.g. intercostal nerve block for painful rib metastasis
or peripheral lung tumour/mesothelioma infiltrating the chest wall.
• Coeliac plexus block—for pancreatic cancer pain or other advanced
upper GI malignancy.
• Brachial plexus block—for malignant axillary disease from, e.g. breast
cancer, metastatic melanoma, or Pancoast tumour infiltrating the
brachial plexus. The placement of a brachial plexus catheter could allow
the continuous infusion of analgesia.
Indications for spinal opioids
• Poor pain control, despite escalating opioid requirements.
• Opioid switch already tried or not appropriate.
•	Unacceptable or intolerable systemic opioid side effects.
Indications for epidural or intrathecal analgesia
• Pathological hip/pelvic fractures in patients unsuitable for surgical fixation.
• Intractable low back pain with metastatic disease affecting the
lumbosacral spine.
•	Advanced pelvic malignancy involving any of the pelvic organs.
• Recurrent rectal tumours causing intractable pain and/or tenesmus.
•	Upper abdominal pain (coeliac plexus pain) can be managed with thoracic
epidural initially prior to consideration of coeliac plexus block.
•	Early referral to the pain team or a specialist anaesthetist should be
considered.
Neurosurgical techniques
• Spinal cord decompression/laminectomy, ± stabilization.
• Open anterolateral cordotomy.
• Percutaneous cervical cordotomy.
• Implanted intrathecal pump.
• Neuromodulation—implanted spinal cord stimulator.

Pain management

Orthopaedic surgery
• Fixation of pathological fractures, hip nailing, hemi-arthroplasty,
girdlestone, pelvic stabilization, humeral intramedullary wiring.
• Vertebroplasty with injection of cement into a collapsed vertebral body
for bone pain.

Important practice point
DO NOT FORGET TO REDUCE THE SYSTEMIC OPIOID DOSE BY
30–50%, FOLLOWING SUCCESSFUL NERVE BLOCK OR FIXATION OF
AN UNSTABLE FRACTURE (to prevent opioid toxicity).
Palliative radiotherapy
•	EBRT can be effective in reducing pain due to local tumour effects, e.g.
from skeletal metastases.
• Maximum benefit of radiotherapy can take several weeks to develop.
• Radiotherapy may initially exacerbate pain. Hence, pain control must be
adequately addressed, whilst the patient is undergoing radiotherapy and
in the weeks immediately afterwards.
• Bone-targeted radioisotopes, e.g. strontium-89, can be considered for
diffuse pain from osteoblastic metastases unresponsive to conventional
analgesia l the radioisotope is absorbed in areas of high bone turnover.
Analgesic effect can take up to 3 months, and myelosuppression can be
a significant toxicity.
Supportive care
There are many other interventions that complement the medical approach
to pain control and may have therapeutic benefit. These include:
• transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS)
• occupational therapy
• physiotherapy
• acupuncture, aromatherapy, or reflexology
• relaxation therapies, including massage and hypnosis
• patient education and psychological support
• daycare can provide a framework and an environment for some, or
all, of the above, as well as other creative therapies through raising
self-esteem and distracting the focus away from unpleasant symptoms.

125

126

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Nausea and vomiting
• Occurs in up to 70% of patients with advanced cancer.
•	An extremely unpleasant symptom, with many patients rating it as
distressing as pain.
• Nausea and vomiting can occur as separate entities:
• not every patient with nausea vomits
• not every vomiting patient has nausea.

Mechanisms
•	As with pain control, appropriate management of nausea and vomiting
requires a thorough assessment to identify a probable cause. A related
neuropharmacological mechanism is then implicit, and a logical choice of
anti-emetic can be made (see Fig. 6.2).
• When taking the history, particular attention should be paid to:
• reduced appetite
• early satiety
• retching
• small- or large-volume vomiting.
•	There are many neurotransmitters, receptors, and neural pathways
involved in nausea and vomiting, connecting the CNS with the periphery.
The optimal choice of anti-emetic requires an understanding of:
• the potential mechanism of the nausea
• the site(s) of action of the anti-emetic selected.

Neuroanatomy and description of receptors
•	The cerebral cortex and limbic system respond to pain and various
emotional stimuli and will affect the threshold for nausea and vomiting
within the vomiting centre. The receptors of relevance within these
neural pathways include gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) receptors,
5-HT (serotonin), and the neurokinin-1 (NK1) receptor which selectively
binds the emetogenic tachykinin substance P.
•	The area postrema (AP) lies in the wall of the fourth ventricle and is outside
the blood–brain barrier. This allows it to respond to drugs, toxins, and
changes within both plasma and CSF biochemistry. The main receptors in
this area are dopamine (D2) receptors, the 5-HT3 serotonin subtype, and
the (now ubiquitous) NK1 receptor already mentioned.
•	The vomiting centre (VC) lies within the medulla of the brainstem
and within the blood–brain barrier. The most important receptors
here include muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (AChm), histamine
(H1) receptors, 5-HT2 serotonin receptor subtype, and again the
NK1 receptor as above. The VC receives afferent impulses from the
other parts of the system and is in close proximity to other important
brainstem nuclei, including the nucleus of the tractus solitarius and the
dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. These nuclei contain a large quantity of
both serotonin (5-HT) and NK1 receptors.
•	The connections between the vestibular apparatus (contained within the
bony labyrinths) and the VC and AP contain both AChm and H1 receptors.
•	There are many pathways and receptors within the GI tract, but most
importantly the 5-HT3 and 5-HT4 serotonin receptor subtypes, AChm,
and D2. The latter three receptors are involved in the regulation of GI
motility.

Portal vein

Capsular stretch

D2

NK1

INTEGRATED
VOMITING CENTRE

AREA POSTREMA

Visceral stretch
Gastric irritation
Gastric distension
Abdominal radiotherapy
Bowel distension/obstruction
Chemotherapy

Pharyngeal irritation

VOMITING
Relaxation LOS
Reverse peristalsis
Abdo-muscle contraction

D2, dopamine-2 receptors; 5-HT, 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors; NK1, neurokinin-1 receptors; NTS, nucleus of the tractus solitarius; DMNV, dorsal motor nerve of vagus; CN, cranial nerve.

GI TRACT

Sympathetic nerves
Splanchnic nerves

Raised ICP

VESTIBULAR APPARATUS
Motion sickness/vertigo

Vagus nerves
Glossopharyngeal nerves

CN nuclei NTS DMNV

5-HT

HIGHER CENTRES
Cerebral cortex
Limbic system

Fig. 6.2 Diagram of the neural mechanisms controlling vomiting.

LIVER

Systemic circulation

Biochemical abnormality
e.g. Hypercalcaemia
Uraemia
Drug toxicity
Opioids
Toxins (bacterial/tumour)
Chemotherapy

Anxiety
Fear
Pain
Psychological stimuli
Anticipatory nausea
Emotions
Smell

Nausea and vomiting

127

128

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Causes of nausea and vomiting
Area postrema
Drugs, biochemical derangement, or blood-borne toxins will stimulate the
AP. Serum biochemistry, including corrected calcium, and the renal function
should be checked.
Common metabolic causes
• i Ca2+ may be accompanied by dehydration, constipation, abdominal
pain, and confusion. Alternatively, nausea/vomiting may be the
only sign.
•	Uraemia also causes nausea, often in the absence of other clinical signs.
• Hyponatraemia caused by advanced malignant disease or diuretic
therapy.
• Secretion of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH):
• caused by specific malignancies
• drugs—antidepressants, carbamazepine
• chemotherapy
• head injury.
• Opioids will cause gastric stasis and also stimulate the AP.
•	Antibiotics, cytotoxic agents, and alcohol can cause damage to, or
irritation of, the GI mucosa and stimulate the AP.
• Cytotoxic chemotherapy can cause acute and/or delayed emesis and
anticipatory nausea and vomiting.
Vomiting centre
• Raised ICP from brain tumours, metastatic disease, or other intracranial
pathology. The history may be suggestive, e.g. early morning headaches
associated with vomiting. Fundoscopy looking for papilloedema should
be performed.
• Pharyngeal irritation due to a productive cough. Treat the cause, if
appropriate, with antibiotics, and aid expectoration with mucolytics such
as a saline nebulizer.
• Liver capsular stretch can cause nausea and vomiting, as well as pain.
Steroids (dexamethasone) can often help with both.
• Motion sickness.
Gastrointestinal causes
• (Sub)acute obstruction—a high index of suspicion, particularly if the
patient is known to have intra-abdominal malignant disease. A history
detailing the timing and nature of any vomiting (e.g. shortly after eating/
hours after eating/unaltered food/faeculent vomitus/recent bowel
habit/any flatus/associated pain, etc.) will guide in establishing the likely
level of obstruction. Examination of the abdomen, including a rectal
examination, and an abdominal X-ray (AXR) are needed. CT scan and
small bowel series may assist the diagnosis of remediable causes.
• Inoperable bowel obstruction—dictated by the performance status, fitness
for anaesthesia, and the nature of the bowel obstruction. Laparotomy is
not indicated in cases of widespread intraperitoneal carcinomatosis with
multiple sites of obstruction.
• Squashed stomach—as above, caused by intra-abdominal pathology
limiting the free and normal distension of the stomach. Significant

Nausea and vomiting

ascites, large tumour masses, or liver metastases can cause delayed
gastric emptying, as well as early satiety. The use of a prokinetic
anti-emetic taken 20–30min before mealtimes, combined with an
anti-flatulent antacid containing dimeticone after mealtimes, can help
significantly.
Other causes
• Pain, fear, and anxiety can all precipitate nausea and vomiting and lower
the threshold of the VC for emesis.
• Radiotherapy may also cause sickness, particularly if the CNS or small
bowel is within the radiation field.

Drug profiles
• Metoclopramide and domperidone—both are dopamine antagonists and
prokinetic anti-emetics with weak central action within the AP. Not always
effective for biochemical or drug-induced nausea, but especially useful
to aid gastric emptying. Metoclopramide works both by countering the
dopamine inhibition of motility and stimulating motility as a 5-HT4 agonist.
Domperidone, however, works only by blocking the dopamine inhibition.
Domperidone does not cross the blood–brain barrier and so does not
cause extrapyramidal side effects.
• Haloperidol—potent dopamine receptor antagonist, useful for treating
AP-mediated nausea, refractory to metoclopramide or domperidone.
Watch for extrapyramidal side effects.
• Cyclizine—the drug of choice for VC- or vestibular apparatus-mediated
nausea and vomiting. Antihistamine and anticholinergic activity. First choice
for nausea and vomiting caused by raised ICP, motion sickness, liver
capsule stretch, or pharyngeal irritation. Should not be combined with
metoclopramide, as its anticholinergic action will negate the pro-motility
effect of metoclopramide.
• Levomepromazine—phenothiazine with useful broad-spectrum anti-emetic
profile. Blocks D2, AChm, H1, and 5-HT2 serotonin receptor subtype,
as well as α2 receptors. This last receptor is responsible for the risk of
postural hypotension at higher doses, especially when fluid intake has
been marginal because of refractory nausea and vomiting.
• Lorazepam—short-acting benzodiazepine that can be administered
sublingually. Particularly useful as an adjuvant anti-emetic for anxiety and
anticipatory nausea and vomiting.
• Dexamethasone—fluorinated corticosteroid, often used as part of an
anti-emetic regime given with chemotherapy. It acts as an adjuvant
anti-emetic with other drugs. Its mechanism of action is possibly by
reducing the permeability of the blood–brain barrier and the AP to
emetogenic substances and by reducing GABA and leu-enkephalin
release within the brainstem.
• Ondansetron/granisetron—specific 5-HT3 serotonin receptor subtype
antagonists. Narrow spectrum and specifically developed to treat acute
nausea and vomiting associated with both chemo- and radiotherapy.
Less effective with delayed nausea and vomiting. NOT to be used as
an anti-emetic when other drugs have failed. Can cause significant
constipation.

129

130

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

• Aprepitant—a highly selective antagonist of substance P at NK1
receptors, developed specifically to treat the delayed emesis sometimes
seen with highly emetogenic chemotherapy regimens. It has little or no
affinity for 5-HT3 serotonin, dopamine, or corticosteroid receptors. NK1
receptors can be found in the VC and GI tract. Licensed in combination
with a 5-HT3 antagonist and corticosteroids (although concomitant
steroids must be prescribed at 50% of the usual dose), aprepitant is
typically prescribed on days 1–3 of a cycle of chemotherapy.

Choice of drug
(See Table 6.2.)
•	A first-line anti-emetic is selected, subject to identifying the most likely
cause, and is administered via a suitable route.
• If vomiting prevents oral administration, other options include s/c,
sublingual, buccal, rectal, IV, and intramuscular (IM) routes.
• Continuous s/c administration via a syringe driver guarantees drug
administration in the vomiting patient.
•	Anti-emetics should be prescribed regularly.
• Second-line or combination therapy should be introduced if symptoms
persist after 24h.
• Reversible causes of nausea and vomiting should be addressed
separately, e.g.:
• correcting hypercalcaemia
• optimizing hydration
• stopping emetogenic drugs, wherever possible
• draining ascites
• managing bowel obstruction appropriately, etc.
• It should be remembered that nausea and vomiting in patients with
cancer is often multifactorial. If the causes are not clear, or first-line
therapy has failed, then levomepromazine is an appropriate subsequent
choice of anti-emetic, as it acts at many different receptor sites. Its
broad spectrum of activity means it is frequently effective, even when
combinations of specific anti-emetics have been unsuccessful. Its
anxiolytic and sedative effects can also be advantageous in this group of
patients, although doses above 25mg/24h can frequently cause sedation
and postural hypotension.
• Inoperable bowel obstruction is often treated on a surgical ward by ‘drip
and suck’, deploying an uncomfortable nasogastric (NG) tube and IV
fluids.
•	A more conservative approach can be successful, using a combination
of a broad-spectrum anti-emetic, such as levomepromazine, and the
anticholinergic (antisecretory and antimotility) drug hyoscine butyl
bromide.
• Sometimes, an empirical trial of s/c dexamethasone can also be added
to the regime.
• Octreotide (a somatostatin analogue) can be useful in cases refractory
to the above management.
•	A venting gastrostomy may have to be considered in high duodenal or
jejunal obstruction. This is essentially a feeding tube used in reverse and
is very effective for refractory nausea and vomiting.

PPI

5-HT3 antagonist

Antihistamine and
anticholinergic

Lansoprazole

Ondansetron

Cyclizine

Dopamine antagonist,
antimuscarinic,
antihistamine, and 5-HT2
antagonist

Levomepromazine

Gastric irritation,
including radiotherapy

Dopamine antagonist

Haloperidol

Benzodiazepine

Lorazepam

Drugs, e.g. opioids,
metabolic (whilst
correcting the cause)

NK1 antagonist

Aprepitant

Anticipatory

Peripherally acting
prokinetic and AP
anti-emetic

Metoclopramide

Corticosteroid

Dexamethasone

Chemotherapy
(delayed emesis, >24h)

5-HT3 antagonist

Ondansetron

Chemotherapy
(acute emesis, <24h)

Class of drug

Anti-emetic

Causes of nausea/
vomiting

Table 6.2 Selection of anti-emetics

50mg tds PO/s/c

8mg bd PO

30mg od–bd PO

6.25–12.5mg nocte PO or
6.25mg bd PO

1.5–3mg nocte PO or
0.5–1.5mg bd PO

1–2mg prn, max 4mg/24h

3-day chemo pack or 80mg
od PO

10–20mg qds PO

2–4mg bd PO for 1–3 days

8mg bd PO

Example dose schedule

(continued)

Drowsiness, dry mouth, blurred vision,
risk of urinary retention

Constipation

Sedation, blurred vision, risk of urinary
retention, postural hypotension

Sedation, extrapyramidal effects

Sedation

GI side effects, headache, dizziness

Restlessness, extrapyramidal effects

Agitation/insomnia, gastric irritant

Constipation

Common side effects

Nausea and vomiting

131

Dopamine antagonist

Corticosteroid

Anti-spasmodic,
anti-secretory

Somatostatin analogue

Broad-spectrum
6.25–25mg/24h s/c
phenothiazine anti-emetic

Haloperidol

Dexamethasone

± hyoscine
butylbromide

± octreotide

Levomepromazine

Up to 1000 micrograms/24h
s/c

Up to 100mg/24h s/c

2–8mg bd s/c

2–3mg bd or 2–5mg/24h s/c

50mg tds or 150mg/24h s/c

Antihistamine and
anticholinergic

Cyclizine

50mg tds or 150mg/24h s/c

Obstruction

Antihistamine and
anticholinergic

10–20mg qds PO or as rectal
suppository

10–20mg qds PO/IV/s/c

Cyclizine

Prokinetic

Domperidone

50mg tds PO or
150mg/24h/s/c

Up to 16mg/24h

Pharyngeal irritation,
liver capsular stretch,
motion sickness

Prokinetic

Metoclopramide, or

Antihistamine and
anticholinergic

Cyclizine

Example dose schedule

As described earlier in this table

Constipation

Dry mouth, blurred vision urinary
retention

Agitation/insomnia, gastric irritant

Sedation, extrapyramidal effects

Drowsiness, dry mouth, blurred vision,
risk of urinary retention

Drowsiness, dry mouth, blurred vision,
risk of urinary retention

Agitation. Discontinue if colicky pain
develops. Central effects less likely with
domperidone

Agitation/insomnia, gastric irritant

Common side effects

Chapter 6

Gastric stasis/subacute
bowel obstruction

Corticosteroid

Dexamethasone

Raised ICP

Class of drug

Anti-emetic

Causes of nausea/
vomiting

Table 6.2 (contd.)

132

Symptom control in palliative care

Nausea and vomiting

133

134

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Hiccup
• Hiccup is a pathological respiratory reflex, part of a symptom complex
originating and integrated within closely related brainstem nuclei and
also the respiratory and vomiting centres.
• It is characterized by spasm of the diaphragm, resulting in sudden
inspiration, followed by abrupt closure of the glottis.
• Over 90% of hiccups are thought to be caused by gastric distension.
• Gastroparesis, as a consequence of opioid therapy, can cause hiccup.
•	Also caused by pathology around, or involving, the diaphragm:
• disease around the lower oesophageal sphincter
• the crura of the diaphragm
• subphrenic abscess
• lower lobe consolidation or empyema
• disease infiltration of the diaphragm or phrenic nerve(s).
• Phrenic nerve infiltration can occur anywhere along the course of the
nerve, including mediastinal disease involvement causing spasm of the
diaphragm.
• Other causes include brain tumours and uraemia.

Management
• Correct the correctable.
• Promote GI motility and gastric emptying.
• Drain empyema or pleural effusion.
• Drain subdiaphragmatic collection.
• Stenting of obstructing lower oesophageal tumour.
• Drain ascites.

Traditional remedies
•	These rely on pharyngeal stimulation which acts as a gating mechanism
through negative feedback to the brainstem.
• Raising the partial pressure of carbon dioxide (pCO2) in the blood
through breath-holding will raise the threshold for continued hiccuping.
Rebreathing from a brown paper bag will have the same effect.
• Startling the patient often causes neck hyperextension, which, in turn,
stimulates (via stretching) the pharynx.
•	A couple of drams of alcohol ingested promptly.
•	A couple of heaped teaspoonfuls of granulated sugar.
• Dry bread or biscuit.
• Rubbing the roof of the mouth at the junction of the soft and hard
palate quickly and repetitively to and fro with a cotton bud.

Medical treatments
• Saline nebulizer.
•	Enhance GI motility, and encourage stomach emptying with
metoclopramide 10–20mg or domperidone 20mg, 20–30min before
mealtimes PO tds.
• Finish each meal with an anti-foaming, anti-flatulent antacid containing
dimeticone, e.g. Maalox®.
• For relaxation of diaphragmatic spasm, consider baclofen or nifedipine.

Hiccup

• For phrenic nerve involvement, treat similarly to neuropathic pain.
Steroid with an anti-neuropathic pain adjuvant, such as gabapentin or
sodium valproate, may be helpful.
• Central depression of the hiccup reflex in the brainstem with midazolam
or levomepromazine.
• (The use of chlorpromazine and haloperidol should be thought of as a
last resort.)

135

136

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Constipation
Causes
There are many potential causes of constipation in patients with malignancy.
• Drugs, particularly the more water-soluble opioid analgesics, drugs with
either anticholinergic action or anticholinergic side effects, which include
a number of the common anti-emetics, as well as the 5-HT3 antagonists.
Constipation is also associated with some forms of chemotherapy, e.g.
vinca alkaloids.
• Dehydration due to inadequate fluid intake or 2° to vomiting, diuretic
therapy, etc.
•	Anorexia—reduced oral intake or change in dietary content.
• Immobility/general weakness and ‘cannot push’.
• Hypercalcaemia, particularly if accompanied by nausea and vomiting,
dehydration, and abdominal pain.
• Spinal cord compression.
• Intestinal obstruction. Intrinsic compression due to malignancy,
intraperitoneal disease causing stricture, or adhesion, or extrinsic
compression from pelvic tumour. Post-surgery or post-radiotherapy
adhesions.

Presentation
• Decreased frequency, difficulty with bowel evacuation, or no bowel
movements at all.
• Nausea and vomiting (may be accompanied by other symptoms and
signs of bowel obstruction).
•	Abdominal pain, often colicky.
• Overflow diarrhoea—the passage of fluid stool around faecal
impaction. Highly likely if the diarrhoea follows an episode of untreated
constipation and suggested by a history of passing or leaking very
loose stool.
•	Urinary retention.
•	Acute confusional state, possibly accompanying infection or
hypercalcaemia.

Assessment
• History—to help identify precipitating factors or potentially reversible
causes. This should include details of current home care package around
the practical issues of toileting.
•	Examination, including rectal examination.
•	AXR only required to exclude obstruction or pseudo-obstruction, if
suspected.
• Bloods—routine biochemistry, including serum Ca2+.

Management
Non-pharmacological
• Increase fluid and dietary fibre intake, if at all possible. Obtain dietary
advice.
• Mobilize.
• Maximize privacy and dignity.

Constipation

Pharmacological
• Prophylaxis—when prescribing an opioid, always consider prescribing
a combined softener and stimulant laxative from the outset. Fentanyl
patches may be less constipating than morphine due to the highly
fat-soluble nature of the drug and an entirely different drug distribution
within the body. Conversion to transdermal fentanyl might be
considered if the pain is stable.
• Osmotic agents—these osmotically active compounds, within the bowel
lumen, are not absorbed and retain water, softening the bowel content,
increasing stool volume, and stimulating peristalsis. These include
magnesium, citrate, and phosphate salts, and macrogols, as well as
sugars that are not absorbed such as lactulose and sorbitol. Lactulose
(a synthetic disaccharide) is commonly prescribed and causes unpleasant
side effects of abdominal colic, bloating, and flatulence due to its
breakdown and gas production within the bowel by the gut flora.
• Other softeners—these include poloxamer and docusate; the former
is found in co-danthramer, and the latter in co-danthrusate or on
its own as the stool softener docusate. Docusate does not have
the disadvantages of lactulose described above, working more as a
surface-wetting agent and enhancing the penetration of water into
the stool.
• Stimulant agents—senna is a naturally occurring anthranoid laxative
derived from plant extracts. Synthetic anthranoids include dantron
found in co-danthramer and co-danthrusate. Along with the phenolics,
such as bisacodyl and sodium picosulfate, they exert their effects by
stimulating both secretion and motility via the enteric nervous system
comprising Auerbach’s and Meissner’s plexus. Stimulant laxatives are
contraindicated in intestinal obstruction. Dantron is licensed only for
use in the palliative setting and is particularly effective in opioid-induced
constipation. Patients must be warned that their urine may become
discoloured.
• Bulking agents—useful in patients who are otherwise well and able to
eat and drink relatively normally. Require a fluid intake of 2–3L per day,
e.g. ispaghula husk. It is neither effective nor recommended to combat
opioid-induced constipation.
• Rectal preparations, e.g.:
• glycerin suppositories to soften, lubricate, stimulate, and facilitate the
passage of hard stool from a loaded rectum
• an arachis oil enema to soften stool at night, prior to a
high-phosphate enema the following morning, to stimulate
evacuation
• bisocodyl stimulant suppositories or liquid are particularly useful
to restore a pattern of bowel evacuation, following spinal cord
compression
• a range of osmotic micro-enema preparations are available such as
Micolette® or Micralax®.

137

138

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Diarrhoea
The passage of abnormally loose stool; usually combined with increased
frequency of bowel movement.

Causes and management
•	Exclude pathogens, especially bacterial, viral, and fungal; note Clostridium
difficile or Norwalk virus/Norovirus.
•	Exclude overflow diarrhoea, most frequently caused by the prescription
of opioid therapy without a laxative. Requires rectal examination and
intervention, if indicated.
•	Too much laxative.
• Bowel resection.
• Post-radiotherapy diarrhoea:
• loperamide
• codeine
• morphine
• local steroid foam enema
• ondansetron
• octreotide.
• Consider fistula—diversion procedure/colostomy may be appropriate
management.
• Malabsorption of pancreatic insufficiency—Creon®.
• Bacterial overgrowth within blind loops following surgical reconstruction
after major surgery (Whipples/Roux-en-Y):
• probiotics to encourage friendly bacteria—yoghurt drinks
• metronidazole.
• Carcinoid syndrome:
• ondansetron
• octreotide.
• Cholegenic diarrhoea:
• colestyramine.
• Candidal overgrowth causing secretory diarrhoea:
• fluconazole.
•	Autonomic neuropathy or post-lumbar sympathectomy:
• clonidine.
• Drug-induced—chemotherapy, misoprostol, non-steroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), antibiotics, laxatives:
• stop causative drug, if possible.
Loperamide is a peripheral opioid receptor agonist with no central action,
and hence no analgesic activity; 2mg is equivalent to 30mg of codeine or
15–30mg of morphine. Loperamide may, however, be more effective, as
it is longer-acting:
• loperamide should be used alone initially
• then codeine alone
• then in combination
• and then loperamide and morphine could be tried as a combination.
Drugs may be lost from the bowel prematurely if the transit time is very
short and diarrhoea severe. Opioid via continuous s/c infusion may be necessary to guarantee absorption and evaluate the efficacy.
Correct the correctable, wherever possible.

Diarrhoea

139

140

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Cachexia and anorexia
Cachexia
• Involuntary increase in basal energy expenditure, culminating in the loss
of both lean muscle and adipose tissue.
•	Affects >85% of patients with advanced cancer.
• Often associated with anorexia. However, cachexia differs from
starvation (in which muscle mass tends to be spared), because the
associated loss of fat and lean body mass cannot be reversed by simply
increasing the calorific intake.
• Most commonly seen in patients with advanced solid tumours,
particularly those affecting the lungs or GI tract.
•	The underlying causative mechanisms are unknown, although circulating
cytokines, such as tumour necrosis factor (TNF), clearly play a role,
causing metabolic abnormalities such as protein breakdown, lipolysis,
and increased gluconeogenesis.
•	Thought of as a chronic inflammatory state, the enormity of which
relates directly to the degree and rate of weight loss.
•	A major cause of symptoms towards the end of life, with multiple
associated physical, psychological, and social co-morbidities. Often
distressing to both the patient and their carers.

Anorexia
• Reduced or absent appetite for food.
• May be associated with the fatigue and cachexia of advanced malignancy,
without any other specific cause.
• However, assessment requires consideration of potentially reversible
causes that may benefit from intervention, e.g.:
• inadequate pain control
• nausea
• constipation
• depression
• metabolic abnormalities, e.g. hypercalcaemia, uraemia
• infection, e.g. oral thrush
• obstruction/ascites.

Management
Correct reversible causes. Interventions usually do not influence cachexia.
Non-pharmacological
• Dietary advice—small, frequent meals. Eat when hungry. High-calorie,
low-volume foods. Small amounts of alcohol as an appetite stimulant.
•	Education—try to minimize any stress related to food. Encourage carers
not to pressurize. Promote the enjoyment of food.
•	Activity—maximize any potential for exercise.

Cachexia and anorexia

Pharmacological
• Supplements—high-protein, high-calorie, e.g. Ensure®.
• Enteral/parenteral feeding is occasionally appropriate during active
anti-cancer therapy. It is rarely appropriate in the later stages of
progressive disease.
• Corticosteroids may stimulate appetite, reduce nausea, and help in general
by promoting a sense of well-being. They do not, however, increase
lean body mass. The use of potent fluorinated corticosteroids, e.g.
dexamethasone, should be considered only in the short term, as they
will decrease muscle mass and cause proximal myopathy, cushingoid
facies, and problems with upper GI irritation. Change to low-dose
prednisolone 10–20mg daily maintenance for those with a better
prognosis, or consider change to progestogen.
• Progestogens aid appetite and are more appropriate than steroids in the
longer term, although evidence for useful weight gain is limited, e.g.
megestrol acetate 160mg od.
• Increased risk of thromboembolism.
• Combinations of megestrol and ibuprofen have been shown to
improve QoL and weight gain.
• Similarly, medroxyprogesterone has been combined with celecoxib
and found to stabilize weight and help generally with symptom
control.
• Neither combination increases lean body mass, but they increase
both fat and total body water (not oedema), and so lead to weight
gain. Inclusion of the NSAID probably helps by dampening down the
chronic inflammatory response driving the weight loss.
• Eicosapentanoic acid (EPA) is one of the omega-3 essential fatty acids
and can help dampen down the acute inflammatory response, as well as
protect muscle against proteolysis-inducing factor. It is found in fish oil
capsules and Prosure®. Pure EPA capsules can be obtained from most
health food stores.

141

142

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Respiratory symptoms
Causes of breathlessness in malignant disease
We become conscious of being short of breath when it is necessary to
increase the rate and/or depth of respiration to keep pace with the body’s
gas exchange requirements for oxygen (O2) consumption and carbon dioxide (CO2) production. Dyspnoea becomes frightening and unpleasant when
gas exchange is insufficient to support a given task.
Shortness of breath (SOB) in patients with metastatic malignancy is commonly multifactorial in origin. The patient must be fully assessed for potentially reversible causes.
Pulmonary
• Lung tumour.
• Pneumonia.
• Pleural effusion (if recurrent, consider pleurodesis).
• Lymphangitis carcinomatosa.
• Obstruction of large airways (see Chapter 33) ± distal collapse.
• Concomitant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Cardiovascular
• Pericardial effusion.
• Congestive cardiac failure.
• Pulmonary emboli (PEs).
• Superior vena cava (SVC) obstruction (see Chapter 32).
•	Anaemia.
•	Arrhythmias.
Chest wall and diaphragm
• Muscle weakness/fatigue.
• Carcinoma en cuirasse, i.e. restrictive malignant infiltration of the
chest wall.
• Lytic bone metastases/pathological fracture(s) affecting the ribs.
• Pleurisy.
• Infiltration of the phrenic nerve at any point along its course from
the emerging nerve roots, or throughout the mediastinum, or at the
diaphragm.
Ventilation–perfusion mismatch
A large proportion of the above causes of SOB are due to ventilation–
perfusion mismatch. The majority of useful gas exchange takes place at the
lung bases. Frequently, pathology interferes with this process:
• pleural effusion
• empyema
• basal consolidation
• multiple metastases
• lung tumour and basal collapse
• poor basal expansion due to paralysis of the diaphragm (e.g. phrenic
nerve infiltration in mesothelioma) or splinting of the diaphragm due to
abdominal cause of distension.

Respiratory symptoms

Decreased compliance/increased airways resistance
• Pulmonary fibrosis.
• Consolidation.
•	Tumour.
• Pulmonary oedema.
• Lymphangitis carcinomatosa.
•	Exophytic endobronchial tumour.
• Reversible airways obstruction/COPD.
Psychological
•	Anxiety/fear.

Management of breathlessness
• Reversible causes of SOB, as in E Causes of breathlessness in
malignant disease, p. 142, should be treated accordingly. Correct the
correctable.
•	A multidisciplinary approach is helpful, with consideration given
to non-pharmacological strategies such as breathing exercises,
physiotherapy, relaxation therapy, and massage. Patients should be
helped to adjust their expectations.
•	Treat pain.
• Non-drug measures—controlled breathing exercises, companionship,
reassurance, relaxation, and distraction therapies.
• Drug palliation to relieve SOB:
• opioids—decrease respiratory panic and the distressing sensation
of SOB. They reduce anxiety and are analgesic. They also decrease
the sensitivity of the respiratory centre to raised pCO2, reducing
excessive respiratory drive; e.g morphine sulfate 2.5mg/4-hourly PO
• benzodiazepines—are anxiolytic, sedative, and muscle relaxants.
Concerns about respiratory depression are usually unfounded, e.g.
lorazepam 0.5–2mg PO prn
• O —can be beneficial for correcting hypoxia. Can also relieve SOB,
2
even when the O2 tension is normal, possibly through a cooling
effect on the face or as a placebo (similar effect using a fan or a
breeze from an open door or window). Beware if the patient has
coexisting COPD (no more than 28% O2 should be administered).

Cough
• Protective reflex for clearing the airways.
• Some drugs exacerbate cough (e.g. ramipril).
Management
•	Treat the cause, e.g. antibiotics for chest infection.
•	Aid expectoration with saline nebulizers, bronchodilators.
• Soothing cough syrup—simple linctus to coat the pharynx, 10–15mL
4-hourly and as required.
• Can be combined with low-dose morphine sulfate solution as a soothing
cough suppressant (5mg of morphine sulfate solution with 10–15mL of
simple linctus) 2–4-hourly, as required.
• Refer for laser ablation if an endobronchial tumour is the cause of
continued large airway irritation/obstruction.

143

144

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

• 1–2% nebulized lidocaine, starting initially at low concentrations of
2–2.5mL mixed with 2–2.5mL of normal saline. NB Remind the patient
and carers of the risk of aspiration 1–2h after administration.
• Involvement of the recurrent laryngeal nerve by malignant infiltration
within the mediastinum:
• hoarse voice ± ‘bovine’ cough (often difficulty in clearing the airway,
as cough poorly effective)
•	ENT referral for injection of paralysed vocal cord or thyroplasty
procedure, if appropriate.

Respiratory symptoms

145

146

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Pruritus
• Pruritus or itch is an unpleasant and/or annoying sensation that
provokes the urge to scratch.
• Overlap of C-fibre afferent nerve function with pain.

Causes of pruritus
• Drug reactions, e.g. antibiotics.
• Infestation—lice, scabies.
• Histamine released through mast cell degranulation:
• dermatitis
• allergy
• anaphylaxis
• opioid.
• Cupitch syndrome (cutaneous pain and itch), often seen in metastatic
manifestation of skin metastases in breast cancer en cuirasse.
Inflammatory mediators, including prostaglandins, sensitize the
cutaneous nerve endings.
• Skin cancers or metastatic deposits.
• Cholestatic jaundice.
•	Uraemia.
• Opioids (especially via spinal route).
• Haematological.
• Paraneoplastic.

Management
Skin management first, drugs second:
• moisturizer and skin care for dry skin
• menthol 1% in aqueous cream
• treat infestations
• consider stenting the bile duct in cholestatic jaundice (if appropriate).

Drug therapies to consider
General points:
• naltrexone should not be used if the patient on opioid therapy for pain
management
• the majority of causes of itch in malignant disease or during its
oncological management will not respond to antihistamines
• thalidomide can cause severe, irreversible peripheral neuropathy in
long-term use
• haematological causes includes lymphoma, iron deficiency anaemia,
polycythaemia vera.

Aetiology and drug therapies to consider
• Skin causes/allergies/drug reactions:
• antihistamines.
• Opioid-induced itch:
• try an alternative opioid
• ondansetron.

Pruritus

• Uraemia:
• ondansetron
• naltrexone
• mirtazapine
• thalidomide.
• Cholestatic:
• ondansetron
• naltrexone
• paroxetine/sertraline
• danazol.
• Haematological:
• cimetidine
• mirtazapine.
• Paraneoplastic:
• paroxetine
• mirtazapine
• thalidomide.
• Unknown or other:
• paroxetine
• mirtazapine
• thalidomide
• doxepin.

147

148

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Lymphoedema
A chronic, progressive, incurable condition characterized by swelling (often
non-pitting), and associated with chronic skin changes. It can lead to profound physical and psychological morbidity, often with significant impairment of function. Damage to the lymphatics due to malignant disease or as
a consequence of treatment is called 2° lymphoedema:
• tumour infiltration of lymphatics
• surgery damaging lymphatics or excision of lymph nodes during block
dissection
• radiotherapy
• failure of lymph drainage, blockage, surgery, or scarring causes an
excessive accumulation and stagnation of protein-rich interstitial fluid
• affects most commonly the limbs but can affect any part
• often non-pitting.

Pathogenesis of lymphoedema
• Stasis of protein-rich tissue fluid.
• Impaired immune function, as fluid neither circulating nor reaching the
lymph nodes.
• Impaired macrophage function.
• Protein, debris, and inflammatory factors accumulate.
•	Excellent culture medium for bacteria and/or fungi.
• Recurrent infection eventually leads to fibrosis, with irreversible swelling
and thickening of the tissues and skin.
• Fibrin deposition within tissues and blood vessels leads to poor
perfusion and oxygenation, causing further damage.
• Increasing protein increases osmotic pressure, tending to draw in even
more fluid.
•	Uninterrupted cycles of recurrent infection can lead to end-stage
lymphoedema (elephantiasis).
• Before embarking upon lymphoedema management, exclude other
causes of a swollen limb. It may be appropriate to manage extrinsic
venous compression or deep vein thrombosis (DVT) by stenting and/or
anticoagulation.

Prevention of lymphoedema
•	This is the best strategy.
• Patient education and information is vital.
• Referral to a specialist lymphoedema service, if available.
• Massage and exercise techniques.
•	Advice on minimizing the risk of infection/trauma, e.g. gardening gloves
when gardening, avoiding sunburn.
•	Avoid insect bites, if at all possible.
•	Avoid venepuncture or BP measurement on the affected limb.
• Plan an exercise programme during air travel.

Lymphoedema

Treatment of acute inflammatory episodes
•	Early intervention essential.
• Refer to local lymphoedema service regarding local antibiotic protocols
(poor tissue penetration in lymphoedema).
The cause of an acute inflammatory episode is often Streptococcus, and
treatment should be continued for a minimum of 2wk. IV antibiotics are
often required, and often long-term prophylaxis is required.

Management
•	Aim to prevent progression by preventing acute inflammatory
episodes and containment of the oedema. Left unchecked, there will
be continuous, inexorable progression towards limb swelling and skin
changes (elephantiasis).
• Lymphorrhoea should be managed promptly with skin care and padded
bandaging. Remember increased risk of infection with compromise of
skin integrity.
• Prophylactic use of athlete’s foot powder or the prompt treatment of
fungal infections, as even small breaks in the skin between the toes act
as a portal of entry for infection.
• Daily skin care.
• Self-massage and exercise.
• Specialist fitted gradient compression garments.
• Refractory oedema may require pressure bandaging to reshape the limb,
before maintenance compression garments can be fitted.
• Meticulous attention to skin care and hygiene of the affected area.
Particular attention to between the fingers, toes, and skinfolds, which
should be washed and dried thoroughly.
•	There is no drug therapy yet available for the treatment of
lymphoedema.

149

150

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Mouth care
Good oral hygiene is essential for patients who are about to embark upon
cancer therapies or those further on in their disease journey who need
to keep up their calorie intake and communicate with those around them.
Mouth problems can be a cause of significant psychological morbidity and
possible social isolation.

Those at risk
• Frail elderly.
•	Terminally ill.
•	Undergoing chemo- and/or radiotherapy, especially of head and neck
tumours.
• On drugs with anticholinergic side effects.
• Immunosuppressed or immunocompromised patients.
•	Those with oropharyngeal pathology.
• Patients with dysphagia.
• Patients with tracheostomies.
• Periodontal disease and/or tooth caries.
• On steroids.
• Bacterial, fungal, or viral infections.

Aim of therapy
•	To clean the teeth, gums, tongue, and oral cavity.
•	Treat infections.
• Protect the mucosa.
• Maintain neutral or alkaline pH of oral cavity.
•	Encourage maximum from own saliva—protective, cleansing with
neutral to alkaline pH and natural buffers to protect the mouth from
huge swings in pH, and neutralize the continuous production of
bacterial acids.
• Natural saliva is best.
•	Aim for clean, moist mouth; nothing beats saliva.

Cleaning principles
• Meticulous attention to tooth and gum hygiene with sodium bicarbonate
or triclosan-containing fluoride toothpaste.
• Removal of debris with simple warm water, saline, or dilute sodium
bicarbonate solution.
• Soft baby toothbrush useful to help clear the tongue of coating and
debris.
• Daily or twice-daily rinse with chlorhexidine mouthwash.
•	Apply water-soluble lubricating jelly or oral balance gel to mouth
and lips.
•	Angular cheilitis is common and troublesome, and often of fungal or
bacterial aetiology. Hydrocortisone creams containing antifungals or
antibacterials are helpful.
• Dentures pose a significant risk to the gums for recurrent infection and
mechanical trauma. They should be cleaned daily and soaked in Milton
solution or chlorhexidine solution overnight.

Mouth care

Specific treatments
• Bacterial infections—as described in E Cleaning principles, p. 150,
and use regular chlorhexidine mouthwash. Tetracycline or doxycycline
solutions can also be used.
• Fungal infections—common cause of sore mouth. Prophylaxis can be
with nystatin suspension, but only active on mucosal contact, with
no systemic absorption. Heavily coated mouths should be cleaned as
described in E Cleaning principles, p. 150, prior to treatment. Systemic
alternative fluconazole 50mg od for 7 days. Miconazole (sugar-free oral
gel) can be used, instead of nystatin, and can be applied with a soft baby
toothbrush to the tongue and oral cavity.
• Viral infections—in severe herpetic stomatitis, systemic therapy with
aciclovir is indicated. Solitary lesions may be treated locally with
aciclovir cream.

Chemo-radiotherapy mucositis
• Often associated with anthracycline, fluorouracil, and MTX
chemotherapy.
•	As described in E Cleaning principles, p. 150, prevention through oral
hygiene far better than remedial treatment.
• Benzydamine oral rinse has mild local anaesthetic and anti-inflammatory
effects. Often stings, if used undiluted.
• For a generally painful mouth, consider mucosal protectants which can
be mixed at the bedside with analgesics or anti-inflammatories.
• Raspberry mucilage (obtained as special order from Nova Laboratories)
can be combined with dispersible aspirin 75mg and soluble prednisolone
tablets to provide a soothing anti-inflammatory mouth rinse.
• Polyvinylpyrrolidine and sodium hyaluronate (Gelclair®) can also be
mixed with morphine sulfate solution.
• Single painful aphthous ulcers can be treated with the local application
of hydrocortisone muco-adhesive buccal tablets.
• FA rescue for MTX-induced mucositis.
• Palifermin—human keratinocyte growth factor used before and after
myeloablative therapy and autologous haemopoietic stem cell support
for haematological malignancies.

The dry mouth
•	There are many preparations for the dry mouth, but none are as
effective as natural saliva.
• Can anticholinergic drugs be stopped?
• Regular meals and drinks to encourage normal salivary flow.
• Frozen fruit juices stimulate saliva and are pleasant, e.g. fruit pastille
lollies.
• Sugar-free chewing gum containing xylitol (antibacterial) is helpful.
Low-tack gum for denture wearers.
•	Aqueous lubricating jelly or Biotène Oralbalance®.

151

152

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

•	Atomized water spray, small ice chips, soda water, and cider
mixed 50:50.
• Saliva replacement:
®
• Saliva Orthana (mucin-based) more like real saliva than other
cellulose-based products
• Saliva natura light oral spray containing natural extracts of the Yerba
santa plant which mimic the mucoprotective and buffering actions of
natural salivary glycoproteins
®
• Salinum saliva substitute containing linseed extract and
polysaccharide gel-forming substances
• Pilocarpine hydrochloride (salivary stimulant) 5mg tds taken at mealtimes.
Prophylactic use whilst receiving radiotherapy to head and neck.
Continued for 4–6wk, following completion of treatment. NB
Contraindicated in uncontrolled asthma and COPD, hepatic and renal
impairment, and closed-angle glaucoma.

Altered taste
Cause
• Commonly linked with poor oral hygiene and Candida infection.
• Dry mouth lacks saliva as solvent for taste.
• Coated tongue blocks taste buds.
• Number of drugs and chemotherapeutic agents cause altered or
reduced taste (dysgeusia or hypogeusia).
• Paraneoplastic phenomenon.
Management
•	Treat oral candidiasis.
• Mouth care and clean tongue.
• Stimulate saliva production.
• Vitamin and zinc supplements can be helpful.

Control of psychological distress

Control of psychological distress
Assessment of psychological problems and the provision of psychological
support must be an integral part of the package of care for patients with
malignant disease. Presentation may be in the form of:
• denial/confusion
• anger
• anxiety
• sadness/depression
• sense of loss
• alienation
• seemingly poor control of physical symptoms
• attention-seeking and manipulative behaviour.
All health care professionals should be aware of the frequency with which
psychological problems are overlooked. Time must be set aside for mental state assessment. Cues from the patient or carer should be heeded.
Standardized clinical tools to measure the psychological morbidity and QoL
may be helpful, e.g.:
• Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)
• Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)
• Functional Living Index–Cancer (FLIC)
•	European Organization for Research and Treatment Quality-of-Life
Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30).

Management
• Self-help—patients should be given control over their management and
helped to set realistic goals and develop coping strategies.
• Informal support—the sharing of experiences, the ventilation of feelings
in a supportive environment, and the exchange of information about
the physical, psychological, and social consequences of cancer and
its treatment can help to reduce the sense of alienation and isolation
sometimes associated with cancer, e.g. Cancer BACUP, Cancerlink,
local cancer support groups. Many patients draw spiritual and practical
support from their religious community.
• Formal support—access to trained counsellors is often available through
° care services or hospital-based cancer information centres. Palliative
care specialist nurses are also trained in assessing the need for, and
offering, psychological support and usually have access to psychologists
and/or psychiatrists, if additional help is required.
• Psychological therapies—cognitive behavioural therapy and brief
psychotherapeutic interventions can be effective for more significant
levels of anxiety or depression.
• Psychiatric interventions—medical staff should be able to recognize
when referral to a liaison psychiatrist, and also when drug therapy
(antidepressant or anxiolytic), is required. Psychotropic medication
benefits around 25% of cancer patients suffering from significant anxiety
and depression.

153

154

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Symptom control at the end of life
Assessment
Although death may be imminent, it is important that changes in a patient’s
mental state are adequately assessed. This is because there may be potentially reversible causes of distress and agitation that the patient may benefit
from having specifically addressed. These include:
• inadequate pain control
• urinary retention or the need to have their bowels open
• nausea
• breathlessness
• fear of the unknown and the future, and spiritual issues
• side effects of medication
• unfinished business or family conversations
• dealing with family conflict.
However, symptom assessment at this stage should be achieved with minimal disruption to the patient, in terms of examinations and investigations.
The priority is to optimize the patient’s physical and psychological comfort
and to facilitate a dignified and peaceful death. Remove the medicalized barriers to family communication, such as O2 masks, bandaged IV infusion cannulae, and tubing interfering with the ability to hold a relative’s hand.

Prescribing in the terminal phase
• Discontinue all non-essential medication. In practice, this usually means
discontinuing everything, except analgesia, anxiolytics, anticholinergics
for respiratory secretions, and possibly anti-emetics. If the patient
is unconscious and has entered the terminal phase, it is usually not
necessary to continue corticosteroids.
•	Avoid the oral route. Continuous s/c infusion via a syringe driver is
often the route of choice and does not necessarily require admission,
although it will require significant support from the ° care services or
the community palliative care team.
• IV medication should also be avoided, if at all possible. Cannulation is
intrusive and painful.
•	Adequate prn doses—the ideal is for the s/c infusion to achieve optimal
symptom control, without the need for additional doses. It remains
essential to ensure that prn doses are available, so that the nursing team
has ready access to them, should any signs of distress develop.
• Opioids—these should be continued if they have been part of the
patient’s medication previously, but converted to the equivalent
s/c dose (see E Opioid potencies relative to oral morphine and
24h equianalgesic doses of opioids, p. 122). The prn dose should
be one-sixth of the total 24h dose. If the patient is opioid-naive but
seems in pain, then a small dose of diamorphine or morphine can be
introduced, e.g. 5–10mg s/c over 24h, with 2.5mg s/c available as the
prn dose. Review regularly, and titrate as required.
• Anxiolytics, e.g. midazolam, starting at 5–10mg s/c over 24h, with
2.5–5mg s/c available as prn dose. This needs frequent review, as
often many patients may need significantly greater doses. Occasionally,
agitation persists despite escalating midazolam doses.

Symptom control at the end of life

•	Always check for a simple reversible cause of agitation, such as urinary
retention, and catheterize, if necessary.
• Levomepromazine can be added for its sedating properties, typically
starting with a stat dose of 6.25–12.5mg s/c, adding 12.5–25mg s/c
over 24h and titrating as required.
• Haloperidol, e.g. 2.5–5mg s/c, can also be useful for distress.
• Anti-emetics are often being co-prescribed with opioids and can be
continued as necessary.
• Respiratory tract secretions—these are frequently more upsetting for the
relatives than for the patient. The conscious patient is more likely to
be distressed by the dry mouth that is an inevitable side effect of the
pharmacological intervention for respiratory tract secretions. If the patient
is unconscious, then simple methods, such as appropriate positioning and
gentle suction, may be effective. Anticholinergic agents should usually be
reserved for the unconscious, actively dying patient.
• Remember that anticholinergics will reduce the production of subsequent
secretions, but the current secretions within the airways will have to dry
during respiration or be removed by gentle suctioning.
• Hyoscine hydrobromide 400 micrograms s/c stat can be tried or
incorporated into the syringe driver (usual dose 0.8–2.4mg over 24h). It
crosses the blood–brain barrier, is anti-emetic, causes sedation, and can
cause delirium.
• Hyoscine butylbromide is also effective (10–20mg prn and 20–120mg s/c
over 24h) but does not cross the blood–brain barrier, and so, although it
is anti-secretory and anti-spasmodic, it lacks anti-emetic activity nor is it
sedating.
• Glycopyrronium bromide (200 micrograms s/c stat and 600–1200
micrograms over 24h) again does not cross the blood–brain barrier.
• Side effects of all three relate to their antimuscarinic action.
• Explanation and communication:
• it is essential that the relatives (and the patient, if conscious)
understand the aims behind what is being done and what is now past
the point of being appropriate
• the balance between adequate pain control and possible sedation
must be explained
• the relatives should be kept informed of what is happening at every
stage when the patient is too unwell to engage in conversation. All
goals and aims are explained and will help reduce their inevitable
upset and anxiety
• the contents and purpose of the s/c infusion should be clarified
• the relatives must be reassured that the needs of the patient will
continue to be reviewed and adjustments made accordingly. Time
spent at this stage will hopefully help the relatives to understand,
and subsequently grieve, without anger, suspicion, or unanswered
questions about those final hours.
• Involvement of specialist palliative care services, either hospital- or
community-based. Advice on difficult symptoms may be invaluable, as
are the additional skills in managing the needs of relatives before, during,
and following the patient’s death.

155

156

Chapter 6

Symptom control in palliative care

Integrated care pathway
• Increasingly, hospitals are formalizing the care of the dying patient and
their family by implementing an integrated care pathway for the use of
the MDT.
•	This is in accordance with NICE guidelines in England and through the
‘Living and Dying Well’ Government Initiative in Scotland.
•	An example is the now defunct Liverpool care pathway, more recently
replaced by the five new Priorities for Care of the Dying Person.
•	These pathways aim to provide a framework for addressing aspects of
physical, psychological, and spiritual care in the later stages of life and
after the patient’s death.
• Correct implementation of these pathways requires training of all
members of the MDT who may be involved in the care of the dying
patient. This should include formal training in the recognition of the
dying patient.
•	There has been recent and widespread criticism in the media regarding
such pathways. Cases highlighted in the press often focus on examples
where end of life care has not been managed well.
• Public misconceptions surrounding these pathways, and repeated in the
media, include that:
• they preclude hydration, food, or antibiotics
• there is no scope for clinical review
• there is an intention to hasten death.
•	Used appropriately, with sufficient investment of time by the whole
team, these pathways:
• could represent best practice for the care of the dying patient.
• In a recent survey, an overwhelming majority of doctors agreed that,
if used properly, integrated care pathways offer patients the greatest
chance of a dignified death. However, controversy remains, and
integrated care pathways have yet to find their place (see E Further
reading, p. 156).

Further reading
Breen E (2013). Liverpool Care Pathway is a nice idea—pity about the practice. BMJ 346, f1837.
Brooks D, Wee B (2013). The Liverpool care pathway: what is the furore in the press about?
Br J Hosp Med (Lond) 74, 4–5.
Chinthapalli K (2013). The Liverpool care pathway: what do specialists think? BMJ 346, f1184.
Dalal S, Bruera E (2013). Access to opioid analgesics and pain relief for patients with cancer. Nat Rev
Clin Oncol 10(2), 108–16.
Fearon K, Arends J, Baracos V (2013). Understanding the mechanisms and treatment options in
cancer cachexia. Nat Rev Clin Oncol 10(2), 90–9.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (2011). Quality standard for end of life care for
adults. Available at: M http://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/QS13.
Rocque GB, Cleary JF (2013). Palliative care reduces morbidity and mortality in cancer. Nat Rev Clin
Oncol 10(2), 80–9.
Waldman E, Wolfe J (2013). Palliative care for children with cancer. Nat Rev Clin Oncol 10(2), 100–7.

Chapter 7

Late effects of
chemotherapy and
radiotherapy
Introduction 158
Endocrine and metabolic dysfunction 160
Fertility issues 162
Organ-specific problems 164
Secondary malignancies 167
Neuropsychological consequences 168
Further reading 168

157

158

Chapter 7

Late effects of chemo- and radiotherapy

Introduction
•	Recent decades have seen significant advances in oncological treatments
for many paediatric malignancies and some adult tumours, e.g. germ cell
cancer, lymphomas.
•	The focus has always been to optimize the chance of a cure.
• For the first time, there are long-term survivors after treatment for
advanced malignancy.
•	Additionally, adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy has an expanding
role in the management of many resected or potentially resectable solid
tumours, e.g. breast, colorectal.
• For those managing curable cancers, the challenge is to maximize the
rates of cure, whilst minimizing long-term toxicity from the treatment.
• It is important for the medical profession as a whole to be aware of the
potential long-term consequences of treatment for cancer because:
• studies have shown that a significant proportion of adult survivors
of childhood cancers either are unable to confirm their diagnosis of
malignancy or misclassify their treatment
• many possible toxicities have the potential to detract significantly
from future QoL, and some may even shorten life expectancy
• >90% of survivors of paediatric stem cell transplantation have at
least one late adverse effect.
• Surveillance for complications of therapy needs to be continued for
many decades.

Introduction

159

160

Chapter 7

Late effects of chemo- and radiotherapy

Endocrine and metabolic dysfunction
Pituitary dysfunction
• Common after whole brain radiotherapy; >90% become GH-deficient,
potentially affecting the bone density, cardiovascular risk, and sense of
well-being.
•	Adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) insufficiency (causing adrenal
failure), thyroid dysfunction, and gonadal failure can also occur.
• Continued surveillance needed for ≥10 years.
• Initial investigations:
• serum GH and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1)
• thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and thyroxine (T )
4
•	ACTH
• follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and testosterone/oestrogen.
•	Replacement therapy is an established treatment in children (in the
absence of active malignancy) but is more controversial in adults.

Adrenal failure
•	The most common cause of adrenal insufficiency is the suppression of
hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal function by prolonged administration of
synthetic glucocorticoids.
•	The cortisol-producing parts of the adrenal gland atrophy in the absence
of ACTH stimulation.
• Mineralocorticoid production usually remains near normal.
•	Recovery is usual, but occasionally adrenal failure is permanent.
• Initial investigation—early-morning cortisol, the Synacthen® test.
• Symptoms are typically non-specific, including chronic malaise and
anorexia.
•	Presentation with adrenal crisis is rare, but patients may require
additional supplementation at times of physiological stress, e.g. sepsis.

Primary thyroid dysfunction
• Common after total body or cranio-spinal irradiation, or radiotherapy
to the neck, e.g. cumulative incidence of 730% in patients treated for
Hodgkin’s disease by 20 years post-radiotherapy.
• Subclinical syndrome may persist for years before the development of
overt hypothyroidism.
•	Typically an insidious-onset multisystem disorder, with symptoms that
can include fatigue, weight gain, cold intolerance, constipation, and
depression.
•	Annual screening with thyroid function tests (TFTs) recommended in
high-risk patients.
•	Treatment should usually begin once the TSH is elevated, even if T4
levels are normal, to avoid overstimulating the gland.

Endocrine and metabolic dysfunction

Metabolic syndrome
• Quartet of:
• insulin resistance
• dyslipidaemia
• hypertension
• abdominal obesity.
• Observed in up to 50% of long-term survivors of childhood bone
marrow transplants.
•	Potential risk of premature cardio- and cerebrovascular events.
• Metabolic syndrome is itself associated with an increased incidence
of several common cancers, including colorectal, endometrial, and
postmenopausal breast cancer.
• Long-term monitoring should probably include serum lipids and fasting
blood glucose.

161

162

Chapter 7

Late effects of chemo- and radiotherapy

Fertility issues
•	Patients should always be alerted to the risk of infertility.
• 730% treated for childhood cancers become infertile. Treatment in
adulthood can also cause infertility.

Causes of gonadal dysfunction
• Direct involvement by tumour—e.g. 5% incidence of contralateral
carcinoma in situ in testicular tumours.
• Surgery—e.g. removal of gonad.
• Radiotherapy affecting pituitary/gonadal function—e.g. TBI tends to cause
infertility in men and women. Lower doses may produce transient
oligospermia in men. Radiotherapy is more damaging to ovarian tissue
than chemotherapy—a dose- and age-dependent effect.
• Chemotherapy—effects vary greatly, depending on the agent, e.g. high
risk of gonadal dysfunction, particularly with alkylating agents (e.g.
cyclophosphamide) and cisplatin. In women, the number of maturing
follicles appears to decrease the most, whilst primordial follicles can
appear unaffected.

Effects of age
•	The older a woman, the more likely treatment is to precipitate
the menopause, e.g. adjuvant anthracycline or cyclophosphamide
chemotherapy for breast cancer in a 40-year-old l 770% chance of
inducing the menopause, in a 25-year-old l 710%. This probably
represents their greater reserve of oocytes.
• Effects are not consistent; women of a similar age receiving similar
treatment may experience very different effects on ovarian function.
•	The prepubertal testis seems less susceptible to the effects of
chemotherapy than the mature adult testis.

Effects of gender
• For example, post-chemotherapy containing alkylating agents for
Hodgkin’s disease—790% of men are infertile; 750% of women will have
an early menopause but will not necessarily have been infertile.

Fertility versus sexual function
• Important to differentiate when discussing the risks of treatment with
patients.
• Spermatogenesis is more likely to be disrupted than testosterone
production, so men may be infertile without loss of libido or erectile
function.

Strategies for preservation of gonadal function
Men
• Sperm retrieval techniques:
• from ejaculated sperm (straightforward to arrange for adults)
• testicular/epididymal retrieval in combination with intracytoplasmic
sperm injection (ICSI) (see E Alternative strategies for fertility
preservation, p. 163)

Fertility issues

conception rates using stored sperm are 730%
certain diagnoses (e.g. Hodgkin’s, testicular cancer) may be
associated with abnormal pre-treatment testicular function
• NICE clinical guidelines issued in 2013—sperm cryopreservation
should be offered to men and adolescent boys who are preparing for
medical treatment for cancer that is likely to make them infertile.
•
•

Women
• Oophoropexy—a surgical procedure to move the ovaries beyond a
planned radiotherapy field; mixed results only. Probably limited by
the effects of scatter radiation or surgically induced alterations in the
ovarian blood supply.
• Ovarian suppression—gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH)
analogues to reduce ovarian function reversibly during treatment with
chemotherapy have little supporting evidence in humans.
• Storage of ovarian tissue/oocytes—increasingly available following recent
reports of successful pregnancies. Ovarian tissue can be retrieved
without the need for ovarian stimulation. Ovarian hyperstimulation
following an (o)estrogen receptor (ER)-positive tumour is to be
avoided, if at all possible.
• NICE has issued clinical guidelines (applicable in England and Wales)
for the management of people with cancer who wish to preserve
their fertility. It is worth noting that many of the eligibility criteria
for conventional infertility treatment do not apply to patients with a
diagnosis of cancer (see E Further reading, p. 168).
•	Any decision to delay anti-cancer treatment and to proceed with fertility
preservation should take into account:
• the diagnosis
• if this is a hormone-sensitive cancer, e.g. ER-positive breast cancer
• the treatment plan, including its relative urgency
• the prognosis from the cancer
• the likely outcome of subsequent fertility treatment.
Alternative strategies for fertility preservation
• Natural conception—may occur, sometimes unexpectedly. Menstrual
function and fertility may return to normal, even years after completing
treatment.
• Storage of frozen embryos—possible. Generally requires the woman to
have a partner, to delay treatment, and to undergo ≥1 cycle of in vitro
fertilization (IVF) (preceded by ovarian hyperstimulation).
• ICSI—a single sperm is injected directly into the cytoplasm of a mature
oocyte. Appropriate, particularly if the spermatozoa are limited in
number or quality.
•	Donor eggs.

163

164

Chapter 7

Late effects of chemo- and radiotherapy

Organ-specific problems
Cardiac
•	Anthracycline exposure (e.g. doxorubicin, epirubicin):
• most commonly associated with long-term cardiovascular
complications, particularly dilated cardiomyopathy
• risk is dose-dependent—cumulative doses should be calculated
(empiric guidelines for maximum lifetime doses: doxorubicin 550mg/
m2, epirubicin 900mg/m2. Local guidelines should be followed, and
these figures should not preclude careful clinical monitoring)
• risk also increases with age, if there is pre-existing cardiac disease, or
in the presence of other cardiotoxic therapies, e.g. trastuzumab
• prior or concurrent radiotherapy has an additive effect. This is
significant, because chemotherapy for breast cancer typically includes
an anthracycline, and chest wall radiotherapy is also commonly used
in this group of patients
• the effects can be seen many years later
• evidence suggests that infusional treatment is associated with a lower
risk of cardiotoxicity than bolus therapy. In reality, most protocols
use bolus doses (no need for long lines, fewer admissions, etc.)
• monitoring via echocardiography or multigated acquisition (MUGA)
scanning is appropriate—abnormal septal movement is usually
observed before any decline in ejection fraction
• initial management is usually with an angiotensin-converting enzyme
(ACE) inhibitor and referral to a cardiologist.
•	Trastuzumab:
• monoclonal antibody targeting a specific epitope of the HER2 protein
• can cause treatment-related cardiomyopathy. This can range from
an asymptomatic reduction in left ventricular function to congestive
cardiac failure
• preliminary evidence suggests this cardiotoxicity is reversible
• regular surveillance echocardiograms are recommended for women
receiving treatment.
•	Radiotherapy:
• adjuvant radiotherapy to the thorax is commonly used, particularly in
breast cancer and Hodgkin’s disease
• despite improving radiotherapy techniques, cancer survivors treated
with radiation still have relatively increased risks of coronary artery
disease, congestive heart disease, and sudden cardiac death
• the effect is additive with some common cytotoxic agents, e.g.
anthracyclines.

Pulmonary
•	Bleomycin (e.g. to treat germ cell tumours):
• can cause pulmonary fibrosis
• symptoms include dyspnoea, a non-productive cough, and chest pain
• risk factors include i age, i dose, renal insufficiency (80% of
bleomycin is renally excreted), and high doses of inspired O2
(anaesthetists should be made aware of prior bleomycin therapy)

Organ-specific problems

treatment with bleomycin should be discontinued immediately when
the diagnosis is suspected
• the presentation may be acute or many months after treatment.
•

Renal
• Several drugs used in oncology have the potential to cause chronic
impairment of renal function, e.g.:
• cisplatin
• aminoglycoside antibiotics (frequently used in neutropenic sepsis)
• NSAIDs.

Neurological
Oxaliplatin can cause an acute transient neurotoxicity, typically experienced
as pain or numbness in the feet and hands, or around the mouth, and frequently exacerbated by cold.
Many chemotherapy drugs can cause a cumulative symmetrical sensory
neuropathy which is frequently dose-limiting.
• Examples include:
2
• cisplatin (usually at cumulative doses >400mg/m ) and oxaliplatin
(cumulative dose >640mg/m2)
• taxanes
• vincristine.
•	Patients may complain of:
• intermittent pins and needles
• numbness in the fingertips or toes
• discomfort walking (‘like walking on cotton wool or cobblestones’)
• difficulty performing fine tasks such as doing up buttons or
holding a pen.
• If treatment is continued, the neuropathy may become chronic.
• In some circumstances, temporary cessation of the causative agent
may allow recovery of the neuropathy to such an extent that it permits
reintroduction of the drug, e.g. intermittent oxaliplatin in colorectal
carcinoma.
• Symptoms may continue to worsen, even after ceasing therapy.
Recovery can be slow but occurs to some extent in most patients.

Ears
Several treatments can also damage hearing permanently, typically causing
high-frequency sensorineural loss ± tinnitus.
Examples include:
• platinum agents
• high-dose radiotherapy
• aminoglycoside antibiotics.

Eyes
• Cataracts can be a consequence of radiotherapy or the use of high-dose
steroids.
•	Radiotherapy-induced Sjögren’s syndrome is a recognized
phenomenon.

165

166

Chapter 7

Late effects of chemo- and radiotherapy

Skeletal
•	Treatment-related reduction in bone mineral density is being increasingly
recognized as a significant long-term complication.
• Induction of premature menopause will also put the patient at risk of
osteoporosis. Vitamin D and calcium supplements can minimize bone
loss. At-risk patients should have bone densitometry and consideration
of bisphosphonate therapy.
•	Prolonged use of exogenous steroids can also cause osteopenia.

Secondary malignancies

Secondary malignancies
•	Risk factors for the development of 2° malignancies include:
• specific treatments previously received, e.g. alkylating agents, topo II
inhibitors, radiotherapy
• i inherent genetic risks, e.g. predisposing genetic polymorphisms,
BRCA1/2 carrier
• field changes, due to carcinogen exposure, e.g. cigarette smoking and
risk of lung, head and neck, or urothelial cancers
• other persisting environmental factors such as smoking.
• 5–10% of all childhood cancer survivors develop second malignancies.
•	The peak incidence of 2° myeloid malignancies occurs 2–10 years after
treatment. Prognosis is poor.
• 2° solid malignancies typically occur 10–20 years after treatment for the
° diagnosis.
•	Radiation-induced tumours have a particularly long latency, sometimes
occurring several decades after treatment. Therefore, despite
increasingly refined radiotherapy techniques, there is already a large
cohort of patients with a lifelong elevated risk of second malignancies.
•	The risk of a testicular cancer survivor treated with radiotherapy
developing a second solid malignancy is reported to be 2–3 times
the rate in the general population. The incidence of leukaemia is
also greater in those patients treated with etoposide-containing
chemotherapy regimes.
• Successful treatment for Hodgkin’s disease is associated with an
increased incidence of leukaemias, NHL, and solid tumours, e.g. lung,
breast, and thyroid cancers. A UK screening programme for breast
cancer has been introduced for women previously treated with mantle
radiotherapy for Hodgkin’s disease.

167

168

Chapter 7

Late effects of chemo- and radiotherapy

Neuropsychological consequences
The long-term neuropsychological sequelae of the treatment for cancer
cannot be underestimated.

Problems related to specific treatments
• Cranial irradiation in a young child is associated with:
• impairment in short-term memory, attention span, and information
processing
• often preservation of verbal IQ; therefore, the child may give the
appearance of coping well.
• Cognitive dysfunction, following adjuvant chemotherapy for breast
cancer, has been extensively studied. Although some studies have
suggested an association (particularly with high-dose adjuvant
chemotherapy), this has not yet been conclusively proven.

Problems related to the process of treatment
Cancer therapies are often intensive, debilitating, and protracted. Survivors
may experience:
• social isolation—time away from work or school
• problems integrating back into the peer group
• difficulties accepting alterations in appearance or ability
• psychological consequences of adapting to long-term effects, e.g.
changes in sexual function and employability
• practical consequences that may impact on the QoL, e.g. difficulty in
arranging life insurance or taking out a mortgage.

Further reading
Avensu-Coker L, Bauman D, Lindheim SR, Breech L (2012). Fertility preservation in pediatric, adolescent and young adult female cancer patients. Pediatr Endocrinol Rev 10, 174–87.
Blijdorp K, van Waas M, van der Lely AJ, Pieters R, van den Heuvel-Eibrink M, Neggers S (2013).
Endocrine sequelae and metabolic syndrome in adult long-term survivors of childhood acute
myeloid leukaemia. Leuk Res 37, 367–71.
Blumenfeld Z (2012). Chemotherapy and fertility. Best Pract Res Clin Obstet Gynaecol 26, 379–90.
Braunstein S, Nakamura JL (2013). Radiotherapy-induced malignancies: review of clinical features,
pathobiology, and evolving approaches for mitigating risk. Front Oncol 3, 73.
Jaworski C, Mariani JA, Wheeler G, Kaye DM (2013). Cardiac complications of thoracic irradiation.
J Am Coll Cardiol 61, 2319–28.
Jesudas R, Malesky A, Chu R, Fischer H, Kamat D (2013). Reviewing the follow-up of pediatric
patients’ status post-hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for the primary care physician. Clin
Pediatr (Phila) 52, 487–95.
Kucharska W, Negrusz-Kawecka M, Gromkowska M (2013). Cardiotoxicity of oncological treatments in children. Adv Clin Exp Med 21, 281–8.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (2013). Fertility: assessment and treatment for
people with fertility problems. Available at: M https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/cg156.

Chapter 8

Hormone therapy
Introduction 170
Types of endocrine therapy 172
Predictors of response 175
Resistance to hormone therapy 176
Controversies 177

169

170

Chapter 8

Hormone therapy

Introduction
Hormones have been implicated in the aetiology and growth of many
malignant tumours (including vaginal, ovarian, thyroid, pancreatic, and GI
cancers, melanomas, and meningiomas). The best evidence that hormones
promote the growth of cancers relates to sex steroid hormones and cancers of their target organs, namely oestrogens and progestins in breast and
endometrial cancers and androgens in prostatic cancer. In general, the aim
of hormone therapy for cancer is to deplete the circulating level of the
hormone promoting tumour growth or to block binding of the hormone to
its receptors within the tumour cell. Both can result in tumour regression
in response to reduction of hormone-dependent tumour cell proliferation
and induction of cell death (apoptosis).

Principles of hormone therapy for cancer
•	Either remove or reduce the hormone driving cell proliferation or
block binding of the hormone to the cell receptor.
• Results in the inhibition of cell proliferation and/or programmed
cell death.
The effects of endocrine therapy are generally confined to normal target organs for the hormone, and there are few side effects outside these
organs. This accounts for the tolerability of these treatments in comparison
with cytotoxic chemotherapy. In addition, tumour responses to hormone
therapy may be durable, even in advanced disease. However, some cancers
arising in hormone-dependent organs are resistant to endocrine therapy,
either at presentation or on relapse, and become increasingly unresponsive during the course of treatment and disease progression. Thus, most
patients with metastatic breast cancer die with hormone-independent
disease.

Hormone-responsive cancers
• Sex hormones:
• breast, prostate, endometrial cancers.
• Renal cancer, meningioma.
• Peptide hormones:
• thyroid and neuroendocrine cancers, carcinoid tumours.

Introduction

171

172

Chapter 8

Hormone therapy

Types of endocrine therapy
Ablation of endocrine glands
In men and pre-menopausal women, the major sites of sex hormone synthesis are the gonads. Castration decreases circulating testosterone in ♂
by over 95% and oestrogens in pre-menopausal women by 60% (relative
to follicular phase levels). These endocrine effects produce clinical benefits in about 80% of men with metastatic prostate cancer and in 30–40%
of unselected pre-menopausal women with advanced breast cancer.
Oophorectomy is not beneficial in post-menopausal women, because the
post-menopausal ovary produces relatively little oestrogen.
Hypophysectomy and adrenalectomy have been used in post-menopausal
women with advanced breast cancer, the adrenal being one source of
post-menopausal oestrogen. These produce benefit in about one-third
of cases, but the procedures have significant morbidity and lack specificity, removing other classes of hormones, in addition to the sex steroids.
The irreversible nature of surgical ablation of endocrine organs, when all
patients cannot be guaranteed benefit, has provided the impetus to develop
alternative pharmacological therapies that are specific, reversible, and
self-limiting. Thus, if therapy proves ineffective, drug withdrawal allows hormone levels to return to normal, with amelioration of side effects.

Agonists/supraphysiological doses of hormone
The gonadotrophins luteinizing hormone (LH) and FSH provide the stimulus for gonads to produce steroid hormones; in turn, their synthesis and
release from the pituitary are regulated by the hypothalamic factor GnRH
(or LH-releasing hormone, LHRH). Highly potent agonist analogues of
GnRH have been synthesized by introducing incorrect amino acids into the
native peptide. When administered for short periods, they cause a rapid
release of gonadotrophins, but, in the long term, these agonists downregulate and desensitize the pituitary receptors. As a result, circulating gonadotrophins fall, the trophic drive to the gonads is abolished, and circulating
sex hormones are reduced to castration levels. Depot formulations of
LHRH agonists are available, so that a single injection can maintain effective
medical castration over prolonged periods. The use of GnRH analogues in
pre-menopausal women with breast cancer and men with prostate cancer
has produced anti-tumour effects equivalent to surgical castration.
A similar mechanism of action underpins the response seen in
hormone-dependent cancers, following the use of pharmacological doses
of steroid hormones such as:
• oestrogen (diethylstilbestrol)
• progestogens (medroxyprogesterone and megestrol)
• androgens.
Lower physiological doses of the same hormones may accelerate tumour
growth.
Whilst the downregulation of steroid hormone receptors occurs in
target organs, other non-specific effects can occur, and these agents may
be associated with, e.g. thromboembolic disease. Also, tumour flare may
occur at the start of treatment. Despite this, they are of clinical benefit,
e.g. high-dose progestogens for advanced endometrial and breast cancers.

Types of endocrine therapy

Inhibition of steroid-producing enzymes
This approach is illustrated by inhibitors of aromatase activity. The
aromatase enzyme converts androgens to oestrogens, and this is the
last step of the synthetic cascade. It is the main source of oestrogen in
post-menopausal women. Its inhibition represents the most specific
method of blocking oestrogen production. Because oestrogen biosynthesis
can occur in non-endocrine tissue, such as adipose tissue, and malignant
tumours themselves (particularly in post-menopausal women), aromatase
inhibitors have the potential to suppress oestrogen levels beyond that
achievable by adrenalectomy.
Two major types of aromatase inhibitors have been developed:
• steroidal or type I inhibitors—interfere with the attachment of the
androgen substrate to the catalytic site
• non-steroidal type II inhibitors—interfere with the enzyme’s
cytochrome P450.
Early type II inhibitors, such as amino-glutethimide, were neither potent
nor specific, inhibiting other steroid-metabolizing enzymes that had a similar
cytochrome P450 prosthetic group, so that steroid replacement therapy
was required. The current generation of triazole drugs (anastrozole, letrozole) are 2000-fold more potent than amino-glutethimide and have differential affinity towards aromatase cytochrome P450, with highly selective
inhibition of oestrogen biosynthesis. These drugs can reduce circulating
oestrogens in post-menopausal women to undetectable levels, without
influencing other steroid hormones.
Among type I inhibitors, exemestane is thought to act as a ‘suicide’ inhibitor, blocking aromatase irreversibly through their own metabolism into
active intermediates by the enzyme; oestrogen biosynthesis can only be
resumed when aromatase molecules are synthesized de novo.
Similarly, the conversion of adrenal steroid precursors to androgens is
catalysed by the enzyme cytochrome P450 17A1 (CYP17A1). This enzyme
is expressed in the gonads, but also in other tissues, including the prostate.
Inhibition of CYP17A1 by abiraterone results in a significant reduction in
androgen levels in castrate-resistant prostate cancer. The most common
adverse events, which were associated with increased mineralocorticoid
levels, included hypokalaemia, fluid retention, and hypertension; these
events were largely reduced by co-administering low-dose prednisolone.

Steroid hormone antagonists
These agents block hormone-mediated effects usually at the level of their
receptors. Antagonists for oestrogens, progestins, and androgens have
been developed. The most extensive experience relates to the use of the
anti-oestrogen tamoxifen in the treatment of breast cancer. Tamoxifen binds
to the ER and blocks the effects of endogenous oestrogens. Responses are
more likely to occur in tumours that are ER-positive.
Tamoxifen incompletely blocks the trophic actions of oestrogen and can
demonstrate partial agonist activity, especially when endogenous oestrogens are low. This explains its positive effects protecting against osteoporosis, but also unwanted stimulation of endometrial proliferation, which
can give rise to polyps and rarely endometrial cancer. More potent ‘pure’
anti-oestrogens have therefore been developed, such as fulvestrant, which

173

174

Chapter 8

Hormone therapy

completely blocks the transcriptional activity of the ER. This drug produces
clinical responses in some patients with breast cancer who are resistant to
tamoxifen.
Anti-androgens, such as flutamide and bicalutamide, have clinical efficacy
in the treatment of prostatic cancer. Anti-progestins, such as RU-486 and
onapristone, have been used against breast and endometrial cancers.

Single-agent versus combination hormone therapy
In the same way that combination chemotherapy has proved superior to
single-agent therapy in many cancers, combined hormone treatments might
be predicted to produce improved response rates. In fact, for most hormone combinations, toxicity is increased, with no improvement in treatment outcome. However, there are exceptions to this rule.

Steroid sex hormone therapy treatment options
• Castration (surgical or medical).
• Synthetic pathway blockade (e.g. aromatase inhibition).
• Steroid receptor blockade.
• Combination therapy.
Breast cancer
• Castration plus tamoxifen is superior to either alone in advanced
pre-menopausal disease.
• Tamoxifen plus aromatase inhibitor is of no benefit over aromatase
inhibitor alone in advanced disease or adjuvant therapy.
• Sequential substitution of one hormone treatment by another can result
in second and third responses when the previous treatment has failed in
advanced disease.
Prostate cancer
• Castration plus anti-androgen blockade has failed to produce clear
benefits, compared with castration alone.
• Sequential addition of anti-androgen to castration can result in second
response when the disease is progressing post-castration.
• Castration-resistant prostate cancer is frequently still dependent on the
activation of the androgen receptor, as demonstrated by the clinical
efficacy of the CYP17 inhibitor abiraterone. This drug inhibits androgen
synthesis from adrenal precursors.

Predictors of response

Predictors of response
Given that hormone therapy is not effective in all tumours, the indiscriminate application of treatment exposes patients with resistant cancer to the
side effects of endocrine deprivation therapy and delays other potentially
beneficial treatment such as chemotherapy.
Currently, no biomarker correlates absolutely with the response to
endocrine therapy. For breast cancer, the most widely used predictor is the
ER. Between 60% and 75% of breast cancers are ER-positive by biochemical
assay or immunohistochemistry (IHC); two-thirds of ER-positive advanced
breast cancers respond to hormone manipulation, compared with <10% of
ER-negative tumours. The highest response rates are in tumours expressing
both ER and progesterone receptors (PRs), and the majority of ER-negative
responding cancers are PR-positive.
The value of other markers, such as the PR in endometrial cancer, is less
clear, and measurement of the androgen receptor in prostatic cancer has
not proven useful.
Previous response to hormone manipulation and disease-free interval
are useful clinical predictors for response to second-line endocrine therapy.
Although progression on one hormone therapy does imply relative resistance to further endocrine manipulation, response rates to second-and
third-line therapy fall progressively (for advanced breast cancer to 30–40%
second-line, 20–30% third-line).

175

176

Chapter 8

Hormone therapy

Resistance to hormone therapy
Resistance to hormone therapy may be °, i.e. no response to the initial
hormone therapy, or acquired, i.e. the disease progresses during treatment
after the initial response. Several possible mechanisms are listed.

Primary resistance
• Mutation has resulted in hormone-independent proliferation in the
tumour with, or without, loss of the hormone receptor.
•	A hormone-dependent pathway is present but unresponsive to
treatment, e.g. mutated receptor.
•	Hormone-independent stimulation of pathway, e.g. ‘cross-talk’ from
other growth factor receptors (there is good laboratory evidence of
EGFR and ER cross-talk in breast cancer).

Acquired resistance
• Clonal selection of the above pathways.
• Increased production of the hormone receptor or hormone.
• Increased affinity of the receptor for the hormone.
•	Altered hormone–receptor interaction, responds to hormone
antagonists as agonists (clinical evidence comes from observed
responses to the withdrawal of tamoxifen in advanced breast cancer
and withdrawal of anti-androgens in advanced prostate cancer).
• Induction of metabolic enzymes, reducing intracellular levels of the
hormone antagonist.

Controversies

Controversies
Duration of adjuvant therapy
If hormone deprivation therapy is not cytotoxic, but cytostatic, therapy
would need to be given indefinitely. The counter-argument is that resistance may be accompanied by a change in the tumour phenotype induced
by the continued presence of the drug. Discontinuation of the first adjuvant
treatment, followed by another non-cross-resistant regime, might be more
effective. Such approaches have been explored in ER-positive early breast
cancer, with tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitors. Although switching from
tamoxifen to an aromatase inhibitor after 2–3 years of adjuvant tamoxifen
has been shown to reduce the risk of recurrence of breast cancer, compared with 5 years of adjuvant tamoxifen alone, it remains uncertain how
this approach compares with 5 or more years of aromatase inhibitor only,
in terms of both cancer recurrence and late toxicities, e.g. osteoporosis.

Chemo-endocrine therapy
If endocrine therapy is an effective systemic treatment and combination
chemotherapy is beneficial, there is good reason to use chemo-endocrine
therapy. However, hormone therapy, by suppressing tumour cell growth,
may give protection from chemotherapeutic agents that are most effective
against replicating cells. This has been demonstrated to be clinically relevant
in the adjuvant therapy of breast cancer. In general, these treatment modalities are best given sequentially, rather than concurrently, with endocrine
therapy started after completion of chemotherapy.

177

Chapter 9

Targeted and biological
therapies
Introduction 180
Small molecule inhibitors 182
Monoclonal antibodies 188
Active immunotherapy 190
Adoptive immunotherapy 194
Tumour vaccines 195
Further reading 196

179

180

Chapter 9

Targeted and biological therapies

Introduction
• Conventional chemotherapies are limited by their non-specific toxic
effects on normal tissues, particularly those that are rapidly proliferating.
• A greater understanding of the molecular differences between normal
tissue and tumour cells allows targeting of these differences.
• The ideal goal is to develop strategies of anti-neoplastic
treatment which:
• specifically kill malignant cells
• do not induce tumour resistance
• minimize the damage to the rest of the body
• can be given over long periods as ‘maintenance therapy’.
• It is a testament to recent advances in oncology that this chapter has
become increasingly streamlined. Several of the agents introduced in
previous editions are now established amongst standard treatment
regimes and can be found in the relevant specialty chapters.
• NICE guidance is included, where appropriate, but the reader is advised
to consult current guidelines via the website (M http://www.nice.org.
uk/guidance), as targeted and biological therapies are increasingly being
recommended. Some treatments remain restricted to the context of
clinical trials.
• The number of potential targets which have been identified for
anti-cancer treatments is expanding rapidly. Part of this expansion is
driven by the need to overcome the development of tumour resistance.
• A comprehensive review of these is beyond the scope of this
handbook. Our aim is to:
• outline some of the principles of targeted and biological therapies
• introduce some of the more commonly used agents
• direct the reader to the appropriate specialty chapter where the
therapies can be placed in their clinical context
• identify appropriate further reading, with particular emphasis on the
most common cancers.

Introduction

181

182

Chapter 9

Targeted and biological therapies

Small molecule inhibitors
An increased understanding of the mechanisms of signal transduction and
intracellular signal amplification in tumour cells has led to the identification
of key families of proteins with critical roles in cell division and cell death.

Tyrosine kinase inhibitors
Tyrosine kinases (TKs) can be divide into:
• receptor TKs (RTKs):
• e.g. epidermal growth factor (EGF)
— Her2/neu receptors
• family of cell surface receptors
• the activity of these receptors controls intracellular signal
transduction, cellular proliferation, apoptosis, etc.
• the physiological binding to the extracellular domain of the receptor
activates the intracellular TK domain, initiating a cascade of
downstream events.
• non-receptor TKs:
• e.g. c-ABL
• found at intracellular locations, e.g. in the cytosol
• mutation and aberrant function of these also have a role in
oncogenesis, e.g. see E Chronic myeloid leukaemia, p. 558.
Genes encoding TKs are usually under tight inhibitory control. However, in
many malignancies, it is known that this control is lost. This may result in:
• upregulation:
• e.g. 730% of breast cancers overexpress the RTK Her2/neu (as
described in E Monoclonal antibodies, p. 188; see also Chapter 14).
• constitutive activation of the TK domain:
• e.g. BCR-ABL, the non-receptor fusion TK observed in CML
(see E Management, p. 559).
Much interest has focused on mechanisms of inhibiting TKs.
Direct inhibition by small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors
• Molecules with specific activity, for example:
• erlotinib inhibits EGFR (see E Inhibition of the epidermal growth
factor receptor pathway, p. 184)
• lapatinib specifically inhibits the Her2/neu and EGFR pathways (see
E Inhibition of the Her2/neu and epidermal growth factor receptor
pathways, p. 184) and has a proven role in progressive metastatic
breast cancer in patients previously treated with trastuzumab.
• Broad-spectrum inhibition of several pathways:
• e.g. sunitinib—a TKI whose multiple targets include KIT,
platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), and vascular endothelial
growth factor (VEGF) (see E Inhibition of the vascular endothelial
growth factor pathway, p. 185).
Indirect inhibition of the tyrosine kinase signalling cascade by antibody binding
to the receptor or ligand cascade
• See E Monoclonal antibodies, p. 188.
The aim is to produce treatments with greater specificity for malignant cells,
in the hope of minimizing toxicity to normal tissue.

Small molecule inhibitors

The spectrum of side effects observed with TKIs includes effects probably due to the inhibition of TK activity in normal tissues, e.g.:
• acneiform rash after erlotinib and cetuximab
• cardiomyopathy after trastuzumab.

Small molecule inhibitors of tyrosine kinases
Imatinib
• Orally administered, specific Abl TKI.
• Common side effects include:
• oedema/effusions
• nausea
• diarrhoea
• rashes
• myelosuppression.
Role of imatinib in chronic myeloid leukaemia
• Approved for use as first-line treatment in patients with CML
(see E Chronic myeloid leukaemia, p. 558).
Role of imatinib in mucosal melanoma
• 720% of patients with mucosal melanoma have a mutation in c-kit.
There is therefore a mechanistic rationale for anticipating clinical benefit
from the targeted inhibition of KIT, but its use remains within the
context of clinical trials at present (see Chapter 23).
Role of imatinib in the treatment of gastrointestinal stromal tumours
• >80% of GI stromal tumours (GISTs) have a mutation in the KIT
proto-oncogene, leading to the constitutive activation of the c-kit RTK
(see Chapter 25). The remainder usually possesses a mutation in a
related RTK, e.g. PDGF receptor (PDGFR).
• Imatinib is active against the mutant TK isoforms.
• Mutation testing may allow the selection of patients likely to benefit
from imatinib or requiring higher-dose imatinib or an alternative TKI,
and hence improve the targeting of treatment.
• Metastatic or unresectable disease:
• early trials suggest it is a well-tolerated treatment, with radiological
response rates of 750%, and 2-year survival rates of >70%, in a group of
patients for whom there previously was no therapeutic option
• despite the high response rates, complete responses are rare
(<10%), and most patients eventually become resistant to therapy,
probably via the acquisition of additional KIT mutations. The median
time to progression (TTP) is around 2.5 years
• approved by NICE for the treatment of patients with KIT-positive
GIST tumours that either are unresectable or have metastasized
• continuous treatment is recommended, with reassessment of
response every 12wk.
• Adjuvant treatment:
• a large (7600 patients) randomized phase III trial reported that
treatment with imatinib, following the resection of a GIST, is
associated with significantly fewer instances of disease relapse
(3% versus 27%)—the trial was halted prematurely, and patients in
the placebo arm were offered treatment with imatinib

183

184

Chapter 9
•

Targeted and biological therapies

however, the long-term impact on OS is not known, and adjuvant
imatinib is not currently standard therapy in the management of
resected GIST tumours (the last guidance from NICE in 2012 did not
recommend imatinib as adjuvant treatment in people after surgical
removal of a GIST).

Inhibition of the epidermal growth factor receptor pathway
Gefitinib
• A small molecule TKI, which specifically targets the EGFR TK domain.
• Orally administered and generally well tolerated.
•	Early-phase trials in NSCLC (see Chapter 13) were particularly encouraging
and prompted larger phase III studies, with variable results. It has now
been recommended by NICE (2010) as first-line treatment of patients with
locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC in specific circumstances only, which
must include a positive test for the EGFR TK mutation.
• Studied in many other solid cancers, with ongoing clinical trials in various
tumour types.
Erlotinib
• Another orally available selective inhibitor of the EGFR TK.
• Studied in many solid tumours, with some encouraging results, in
particular in:
• NSCLC—recommended by NICE (2012) as first-line treatment
of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC in specific
circumstances only, which must include a positive test for the EGFR TK
mutation (see Chapter 13)
• Pancreatic cancer—licensed in combination with gemcitabine, but
its use is generally limited to within the context of clinical trials (see
Chapter 17).
• The most significant side effects are:
• diarrhoea
• diffuse, often distressing, acneiform rash.
• The optimal molecular marker to predict response to treatment is not
yet established:
• upregulation of EGFR (either protein overexpression or gene
amplification) is predictive of response to treatment, as are specific
activating mutations in the TK domain of the EGFR.
• KRAS mutations are associated with resistance.
Inhibition of the Her2/neu and epidermal growth factor receptor pathways
Lapatanib
• An orally administered small molecule TKI, which dually targets the
intracellular domains of both human EGFR-1 and -2 (HER2).
• As with treatment with trastuzumab (see E Trastuzumab (Herceptin®),
p. 188), HER2 testing is mandatory prior to the initiation of treatment
with lapatanib—it should only be administered to patients whose
tumours overexpress HER2 or demonstrate HER2 gene amplification.
• Currently limited to use in women with HER2-positive metastatic breast
cancer who fulfil certain limited clinical criteria (see Chapter 14) or
within the context of clinical trials.

Small molecule inhibitors

• The most clinically significant side effects are:
• cardiac toxicity (see E Monoclonal antibodies, p. 188)
• diarrhoea.
Inhibition of the vascular endothelial growth factor pathway
Sunitinib
• An orally administered, multi-targeted small molecule kinase inhibitor
which inhibits the VEGF receptor TK, as well as other closely related
TKs associated with the PDGFR and the c-kit oncogene.
• The effect is to inhibit both:
• the proliferation of tumour cells
• the development of tumour blood vessels.
• Licensed for single-agent use in advanced RCC and approved for
first-line use in the UK in patients with advanced/metastatic RCC in
certain circumstances (NICE guidance, 2009) (see Chapter 19). Also
has a role in the management of GIST tumours which have developed
resistance to imatinib (see Chapter 25).
• The most significant side effects are:
• fatigue
• diarrhoea
• loss of appetite
• skin toxicity
• hypertension.
Sorafenib
• Orally administered, multi-targeted small molecule kinase inhibitor which
inhibits multiple kinases, including those associated with the PDGFR and
fibroblast growth factor receptor-1. Also inhibits C-raf and B-raf (see
Fig. 23.5) and blocks the intracellular domain of the VEGF receptor.
• Clinical roles in metastatic hepatocellular cancer (see Chapter 17) and
RCC (see Chapter 19).
• The most significant side effects are:
• diarrhoea
• hand–foot syndrome
• hypertension
• cardiac toxicity.
Mammalian target of rapamycin inhibition
Temosirolimus
• An IV administered analogue of rapamycin which acts as a cell cycle
inhibitor via competitive inhibition of the mammalian target of
rapamycin (mTOR) kinase.
• mTOR kinase is the mammalian target of rapamycin and plays a critical
role in several transduction pathways necessary for:
• cell cycle progression
• cellular proliferation.
• Clinical role in metastatic renal cell cancer (see Chapter 19). Also
licensed in relapsed/refractory mantle cell lymphoma.
• Most significant side effects include:
• rash
• anaemia
• poor appetite.

185

186

Chapter 9

Targeted and biological therapies

Inhibition of the mitogen-activated protein kinase signalling pathway
Vemurafenib
• A potent, orally administered inhibitor of the mutant BRAF.
• Clinical application in patients with malignant melanoma, whose tumours
possess an activating mutation in the BRAF gene (see Chapter 23 and
Fig. 23.5).
• The most significant side effects include:
• rashes/photosensitivity
• second skin cancers
• QTc prolongation.

Small molecule inhibitors

187

188

Chapter 9

Targeted and biological therapies

Monoclonal antibodies
• The development of hybridoma technology and the resulting
tumour-associated mAbs offers new prospects for strategies of targeted
biological therapies.
• Some of the applications of mAbs in oncology are in diagnosis:
• e.g. IHC
• radio-immunodetection.
• There is now convincing evidence to support the use of specific mAbs in
the therapy of solid malignancies.
• These new biological response-modifying agents can be added to
chemotherapy regimes and have been shown to improve results.
• They have entered the mainstream in terms of management options
in breast, gastric/gastro-oesophageal junction (GOJ), ovarian, and
colorectal cancer.

Trastuzumab
• An IV administered humanized mAb that binds to the HER2/neu
protein, a cell surface growth factor receptor, discussed earlier
(see E Tyrosine kinase inhibitors, p. 182).
• Binding to the HER2/neu protein inhibits signal transduction, hence
inhibiting cellular growth and reducing malignant potential.
•	HER2 testing is essential prior to initiation of treatment—Herceptin®
should only be administered to patients whose tumours overexpress
HER2 or demonstrate HER2 gene amplification. This is confirmed by
either of the following test results:
• strong IHC staining (3+) for the gene product
• fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis confirming gene
amplification (usually requested if IHC 2+).
• Trastuzumab is generally well tolerated and does not appear to increase
most side effects of standard chemotherapy.
• The most significant toxicity is asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction
(in up to 15%), with the risk of progression to clinically significant
cardiomyopathy (74%). Routine echocardiograms are suggested in
patients commencing treatment or those on long-term maintenance,
particularly if pre-treated with anthracyclines.
•	Established clinical roles:
• in combination with adjuvant chemotherapy in HER2-positive early
breast cancer (see Chapter 14).
• in patients with metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer (see
Chapter 14)
• with palliative chemotherapy in patients with HER2-positive
metastatic gastric/GOJ cancer (see Chapter 17)
• The expression rates in the ° tumour were generally believed to
represent the expression rates in subsequent metastases. However,
discordance has been reported in up to 20% of cases (of ° versus
subsequent metastatic breast cancer), and retesting on relapse should
be considered.

Monoclonal antibodies

Cetuximab
• A human/mouse chimeric mAb, administered IV, that binds to the
EGFR, causing inhibition of the EGFR signalling pathway.
• Adverse effects of treatment with cetuximab include:
• hypersensitivity reactions (73%)
• acneiform rash (possibly due to high levels of EGFR expression in the
basal layer of the epidermis).
•	Established clinical roles in:
•	EGFR-expressing, KRAS wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer (see
Chapter 17)
• locally advanced, recurrent or metastatic SCC of the head and neck
(see Chapter 21).
•	Use in other tumours remains within the context of clinical trials,
e.g. NSCLC.
• The mechanism of action of cetuximab has not been fully elucidated.
There is no correlation between the intensity of EGFR staining and the
clinical response to treatment.
• Its effects are likely dependent on an intact downstream signalling
pathway. For instance, if the downstream KRAS gene is also mutated
(causing an uncontrolled activation of the pathway). then upstream
binding to the EGFR may be ineffectual. KRAS and BRAF mutations are
known to be associated with a low response rate to cetuximab, hence
the requirement to verify that the tumour is KRAS wild-type before
commencing cetuximab in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.

Bevacizumab
• An IV administered mAb targeting VEGF, a growth factor implicated in
cellular proliferation and the ° factor controlling angiogenesis.
• Its established clinical roles include:
• metastatic colorectal cancer (see Chapter 17)
• metastatic breast cancer (see Chapter 14)
• advanced NSCLC (uness predominantly squamous cell) (see
Chapter 13)
• epithelial ovarian, Fallopian tube, or ° peritoneal cancer (first-line or
on recurrence) (see Chapter 20)
• metastatic RCC (see Chapter 19).
• The most clinically serious side effects include:
• GI perforation, delayed wound healing, fistula formation
• infections, including febrile neutropenia
• thrombosis (arterial and venous)
• haemorrhage.
• Other common side effects include:
• peripheral neuropathy
• nausea and vomiting
• diarrhoea.

189

190

Chapter 9

Targeted and biological therapies

Active immunotherapy
• The immunization of the patient with materials that elicit an immune
reaction capable of eliminating/delaying tumour growth.
• It includes the administration of non-specific stimulators of the immune
system. Two examples are described in this section.

Bacillus Calmette–Guérin
• The anti-neoplastic effect of the live attenuated form of Mycobacterium
bovis—bacillus Calmette–Guérin (BCG)—was reported by Pearl in
1929. Subsequently, Mathe and co-workers suggested a survival benefit
in animals with haematological malignancies treated with BCG.
• The immunotherapeutic action of BCG includes the activation of
macrophages, T- and B-lymphocytes, and NK cells. It induces local type
II immunological responses via interleukins (IL-4, IL-1, IL-10). Bacterial
surface glycoproteins attach to epithelial cells and act as antigens.
• Clinical studies that followed did not confirm any effectiveness of
systemic BCG administration in patients with various malignancies
(lymphocytic leukaemia, melanoma, lung cancer).
• Currently, there are only two applications of BCG in cancer patients.
Intravesical instillation of BCG for the treatment of patients with superficial
bladder cancer
• The most effective intravesical agent for the prophylaxis of Ta and T1
superficial bladder cancer, with a 38% reduction of recurrence rate.
• Only approved intravesical treatment for carcinoma in situ (CIS),
with an average complete response rate of 72% (versus <50% for
chemotherapy).
• The exact mechanism of anti-tumour action is unclear, although multiple
local inflammatory effects have been documented.
• Side effects of treatment include dysuria, haematuria, mild fever, urinary
frequency, and rarely sepsis.
Intralesional injection into cutaneous melanoma metastases
• Observed association between BCG vaccination in early childhood and
a lower incidence of malignant melanoma in later life.
• Multiple clinical trials examining adjuvant BCG in early-stage melanoma, or
oral BCG and intralesional BCG in s/c melanoma deposits.
• Mixed results—but objective response to intralesional BCG appears
most likely in patients with solely cutaneous metastases.
•	Rarely used in clinical practice.

Cytokines
• Soluble proteins that mediate the interactions between the cells and their
extracellular environment, in both an autocrine and paracrine manner.
•	Exert their biological effect in a wide range of tissues, but mainly on cells
of haemopoietic and immune lineage.
• A given cytokine can both promote and inhibit tumour growth. How
the cytokine will act depends on its concentration, the type of the
tumour, and factors relating to the stage of disease.
• Several cytokines promise to be of therapeutic importance in oncology:

Active immunotherapy

Interferons
• Family of proteins produced by the immune system in response to viral
infection.
• Antiviral, antimicrobial, antiproliferative, and immunomodulatory
activity.
• Anti-tumour effects include direct cytostatic activity, modulation of
oncogene expression, and enhancement of the cytotoxic activity of NK
cells, macrophages, and T-cells.
• Interferon alfa (IFN-α):
• hairy cell leukaemia—previously, this was the treatment of choice, with
a 90% response rate in the peripheral blood and 40% normalization of
the bone marrow, now replaced by purine analogues
• CML—previous role as first line in the management of CML (now
replaced by imatinib; see E Management, p. 559) was based
on studies reporting 50–75% haematological remission rates.
Monotherapy increases the median survival from 3 to 5 years,
whilst its combination with other treatment modalities increases the
response rate further
• RCC—partial response rates of 10–20% were seen, with the typical
duration of response being 6–8 months; now replaced by targeted
therapy against the VEGF receptor.
• malignant melanoma—monotherapy has moderate anti-tumour
activity, but, when combined with chemotherapy (e.g. dacarbazine),
response rates are as high as 20%. A potential role in the adjuvant
treatment of early-stage melanoma remains to be clarified but may
be clinically valuable in selected high-risk patients.
• carcinoid tumours—see E Adjuvant/neoadjuvant therapy, p. 334.
• Interferon beta and interferon gamma:
• not in routine clinical use, although both are also believed to exert
some anti-tumour effect.
• Side effects of the IFNs include ‘flu-like’ symptoms (>90%), anorexia,
fatigue, i liver function tests (LFTs), myelosuppression, and depression
(>15%).
Interleukins
• IL-2:
• a lymphokine produced by activated T-cells, which enhances the
proliferation of lymphoid cells and the migration of lymphocytes
from the peripheral blood
• anti-tumour activity includes the capacity to lyse fresh tumour cells,
the regression of distant metastases in murine models, and the in vivo
release of other members of the cytokine family
• RCC—systemic administration of high doses of IL-2, alone or in
combination with lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells, activated
ex vivo, can induce a durable partial, or even complete, response in a
minority (710%) of patients with metastatic RCC. It has never been
demonstrated in a randomized controlled trial (RCT) that IL-2 results
in improved OS
• metastatic melanoma—a similar low response rate (<15%); synergy
with concomitant dacarbazine has been reported

191

192

Chapter 9

Targeted and biological therapies

Interferon alfa enhances IL-2 lymphocyte proliferation, and IFN-α/
IL-2 combination therapy is undergoing clinical assessment in patients
with RCC and melanoma.
• Toxicity is dose-dependent and includes ‘flu-like’ symptoms, drowsiness,
and anaemia. More serious adverse events, including neuropsychiatric
disturbances, capillary leak syndrome, severe d BP, and arrhythmias, are
also common (toxic fatalities in up to 10% of patients).
•

Tumour necrosis factor
• An important mediator of the inflammatory response—involved in
stress conditions, cachexia, and endotoxin shock.
• Mainly produced by monocytes, activated macrophages, and T-cells.
• Induces the expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)
classes I and II antigens, as well as adhesion molecules responsible for
leucocyte migration and accumulation.
• Clinical trials in several malignancies, mostly in patients with advanced
melanoma and sarcoma. Disappointing, with poor response rates <5%.
• Systemic administration is limited by toxicity, including acute fever,
i LFTs, CNS toxicity (including encephalopathy), and impaired renal
function.
• Loco-regional administration (intraperitoneally, intravesically,
intralesionally) seemed more promising and led to trials of TNF-α
administered via isolated limb perfusion (in combination with melphalan
and interferon gamma ± hyperthermia) in patients with recurrent
sarcoma and in-transit melanoma. Prospective randomized trials failed
to support the initial encouraging retrospective data.
Erythropoietin (recombinant human)
• A haemopoietic cytokine, usually administered s/c.
•	Evidence from many randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled
trials supports its use in patients with anaemia and (non-myeloid)
cancer-related fatigue.
• Improvements in haemoglobin (Hb) (to ≥12g/dL) correlate with
improvements in QoL parameters, independently of the chemotherapy
regime and tumour response. Transfusion requirements fall.
• Generally well tolerated; side effects include injection site pain and
hypertension.
• Conflicting evidence exists in patients receiving curative radiotherapy
for head and neck SCC—erythropoietin (EPO) treatment has been
associated with poorer loco-regional progression-free survival (PFS),
although methodological issues make these data difficult to interpret.
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor
• A cytokine secreted mainly by macrophages, monocytes, endothelial
cells, and fibroblasts.
•	Promotes myelopoiesis—the ° target cells appear to be late myeloid
progenitors.
• Also affects the function and lifespan of mature neutrophils.
• G-CSF s/c administration shortens the period of neutropenia, following
myelosuppressive chemotherapy. In potentially curable malignancies, e.g.
germ cell tumours, childhood malignancies, acute leukaemia, adjuvant

Active immunotherapy

treatment of breast cancer, dose reduction or delay in chemotherapy
due to neutropenia is to be avoided. Treatment with G-CSF can support
neutrophil production on the days subsequent to chemotherapy when
the bone marrow is most affected.
• Current European guidelines recommend ° prophylaxis with s/c
G-CSF, if the risk of febrile neutropenia associated with the regime
is ≥20%.
• 2° prophylaxis, following an episode of febrile neutropenia, is also
appropriate as an alternative to dose reduction.
•	Use during established febrile neutropenia has been examined in
several studies. No consistent correlation between a reduction in the
duration of neutropenia and clinical benefit (mortality from infection or
improvement in OS) has been demonstrated.
• Clearer role in some treatments for haematological malignancies,
including patients undergoing haemopoietic stem cell transplantation.
• Side effects—bone pain is the most common (up to 30%) but can
usually be managed with simple analgesia.
• In most other adult oncology patients in the UK receiving chemotherapy
with palliative intent, chemotherapy dose reduction is the preferred
option, following an episode of neutropenia.

193

194

Chapter 9

Targeted and biological therapies

Adoptive immunotherapy
The cell-mediated immune response is crucial in the rejection of allogeneic
and syngeneic tumours.
This prompted the use of cells with anti-tumour activity in patients with
malignancies—an approach known as adoptive immunotherapy.
Several strategies have been applied to generate cells with reactivity to
tumours. These include:
• the production of LAK cells:
• incubate human peripheral blood lymphocytes with IL-2 to produce
cells that can lyse fresh tumour cells
• the exact mechanism of recognition and destruction of tumours by
LAK cells is not fully understood
• work in animal models initially suggested that the benefit of IL-2 was
maximized by the addition of LAK cells. However, subsequent clinical
trials in patients with metastatic RCC and melanoma failed to reveal
any therapeutic advantage in the addition of LAK cells, compared to
IL-2 monotherapy.
• isolation of tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs):
• isolated from human tumours
• can recognize tumour-associated antigens
• these have been administered to patients with advanced melanoma,
in combination with IL-2. Response rates of 25–35% have been
reported, including in some patients previously treated with IL-2
• a resource-consuming treatment modality, and it is unlikely that any
clinical benefit will outweigh the use of IL-2 alone.

Tumour vaccines

Tumour vaccines
Virally induced tumours
•	HBV vaccine is a widely used and effective vaccine against HCC.
• Studies are in progress to develop vaccines against EBV, which is closely
linked to the development of BL, NHL, and nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
• The National Health Service (NHS) now offers a vaccination
programme against HPV, strains 16 and 18, which are responsible for
70% of cervical cancer (see Chapter 1). The programme will initially
target girls aged 12–13 years (commencing 2008), with plans for a
‘catch-up’ programme to include older teenage girls, commencing
shortly afterwards.

Non-virally induced tumours
• The concept of a vaccine for a non-virally induced tumour is more
complex. The theory is that tumour cells, or tumour cell extracts,
are used as cancer vaccines, intending to enhance a humoral or
cell-mediated immune response (i.e. B- or T-cell-mediated) to relevant
tumour-specific antigens, rather than to induce prophylactic immunity.
• The antibodies produced may kill the tumour cells by complement
fixation or antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity, whilst the activation
of cytotoxic T-cells that recognize antigens on the tumour cell surface
may induce specific cytolysis.
• Immunization strategies rely on the efficient presentation of tumour
antigens on either the MHC class I or II molecules of specialized
antigen-presenting cells such as dendritic cells. Unfortunately, it is
believed that many neoplastic cells employ tactics that minimize their
risk of immune recognition, e.g. loss or downregulation of MHC
class I molecules. Co-administration of appropriate epitopes with
dendritic cells may be one method of optimizing antigen presentation,
to maximize the T-cell response.
• Several vaccines for melanoma, colorectal, breast, prostate, and lung
cancers are currently under clinical evaluation. Preliminary data support
the concept that active immunization will be effective for patients with
high-risk recurrent disease, after surgical removal of the tumour, when
the tumour burden is small.
• Most clinical trials, to date, have been in patients with advanced,
extensive disease, refractory to conventional therapies, who are
probably already immunosuppressed.

195

196

Chapter 9

Targeted and biological therapies

Further reading
Jelovac D, Emens LA (2013). HER2-directed therapy for metastatic breast cancer. Oncology (Williston
Park) 27, 166–75.
Mihaly Z, Sztupinszki Z, Surowiak P, Gyorffy B (2012). A comprehensive overview of targeted therapy in metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Curr Cancer Drug Targets 12, 857–72.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. For regular NICE guidance and updates, see
M http://www.nice.org.uk/guidance.
Noguchi T, Ritter G, Nishikawa H (2013). Antibody-based therapy in colorectal cancer.
Immunotherapy 5, 533–45.
Ohashi K, Maruvka YE, Michor F, Pao W (2013). Epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase
inhibitor-resistant disease. J Clin Oncol 31, 1070–80.
Zigler M, Shir A, Levitzki A (2013). Targeted cancer immunotherapy. Curr Opin Pharmacol 13, 504–10.

Part 3

Clinical trials,
cancer prevention,
and screening
10 Clinical trials
11 Cancer prevention
12 Population screening for cancer

199
203
217

Chapter 10

Clinical trials
Methodology in cancer 200
Quality of life 202

199

200

Chapter 10

Clinical trials

Methodology in cancer
Introduction
Clinical trials can be classified as:
• phase I studies
• phase II studies
• phase III studies.
In addition, some phase III studies are sometimes referred to as phase IV or
post-marketing studies.
No study should be started without a protocol that describes in detail:
• the aim of the study
• the patient eligibility criteria
• the screening and follow-up studies
• the treatment
• the criteria to score toxicity and activity.
In addition, rules for informed consent procedures should be specified.
Trials of any sort should have approval by a properly constituted ethics
committee.
All of these criteria have been specified in guidelines produced by the
International Conference for Harmonisation for Good Clinical Practice
(ICH-GCP). They are also now embedded in European Union (EU) legislation on the conduct of all trials of new therapeutics.

Phase I studies
Phase I studies are human toxicology studies. Their endpoint is safety, and
they usually include 15–30 patients. They are designed to define a feasible
dose for further studies. These studies begin at a dose that is expected to
be safe in humans. Dose escalation is usually between cohorts, and infrequently in individual patients. It can be:
• according to the Fibonacci method (the dose is escalated in decreasing
percentages of the previous dose, i.e. 100%, 66%, 50%, 33%, 25%)
• according to pharmacokinetics (pharmacokinetically guided dose
escalation, PGDE), using a method that combines statistics with
the experience and expectations regarding side effects (continuous
reassessment method)
• variation on these methods.
The aim of the phase I study is to describe the side effects that limit further
dose escalation (dose-limiting toxicities, DLTs) and to recommend a dose
for further studies with the drug or the new administration method (maximal tolerated dose, MTD).

Phase II studies
In phase II studies, the anti-tumour activity of a new drug or method is
the endpoint. There are various statistical designs, including 14–60 patients
on average. With the emergence of drugs that create tumour dormancy,
rather than cell kill, the endpoint of time to progression becomes important. This is the time from the start of treatment, until the the first evidence
of tumour progression. In addition, phase II studies can provide information
on side effects related to cumulative drug dose.

Methodology in cancer

Phase III studies
Phase III studies have either the time to progression or the survival time
as the ° endpoint. Phase III studies always include randomization against
a standard form of therapy, or no treatment when no standard therapy
exists. 2° endpoints, such as toxicity, pharmaco-economics, and quality of
life, are often included. Phase III trials can involve between 50 and several
thousands of patients. The number of patients is dependent on the size of
the difference expected/clinically important. Cancer trials have often been
criticized in the past for being too small to find realistic differences between
therapies. Breast cancer studies involving many thousands of patients have
been able to define the long-term benefits of hormone therapy and paved
the way for larger-scale trials in other common tumours. In the modern
era, many large-scale cancer trials are performed, so that the true level of
benefit of a new approach can be proven and to allow for the regulatory
approval of new agents.

201

202

Chapter 10

Clinical trials

Quality of life
Introduction
Most cancer treatments produce unwanted toxicities that interfere with the
patient’s quality of life. In many cancers, the benefits of new treatments
over existing approaches have been modest. As new cancer treatments
are developed, a common problem is the comparison of a novel intensive
treatment regimen against a relatively less toxic standard. In such circumstances, if the survival gain from the new treatment is reliably established,
but of modest magnitude, then it may be questioned whether the gain is
worthwhile for individual patients. In weighing up the risks and benefits of
all treatments, it is important to consider many aspects such as:
• the duration of treatment
• the length of hospital stay
• the number of clinic visits
• the short- and long-term toxicities
• the less clinical aspects (perhaps less well appreciated), summarized
as QoL.

Assessing health-related quality of life
Several questionnaires for completion by patients have been developed. The
European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)
Quality of Life Study Group has developed a core questionnaire—the
EORTC QLQ-C30—to which are added disease-specific modules. A patient
who scores high for global health status/QoL is deemed to have high QoL.

Difficulties in quality of life assessment
• Compliance declines, as the patient becomes terminal.
• Compliance may also be poor if the patient feels well.
• Can a surrogate, relative, nurse, or physician fill in the form?
There are important challenges in reporting QoL outcomes in clinical trials. These include the description of compliance, summarizing longitudinal
data in a complete, yet clinically meaningful, way, balancing the multiple
endpoints under consideration and, perhaps most importantly, relating the
findings with regard to QoL to other treatment outcomes such as patient
survival and treatment-related toxicity.
Attempts have been made to integrate QoL and survival data into
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). The duration of survival is adjusted
according to periods of different levels of QoL before summing, to give
the OS time for analysis. The final QALY can then be used for a comparison
between treatments, embracing both survival effects and changes in QoL.

Further reading
Eisenhauer EA, Therasse P, Bogaerts J, et al. (2009). New response evaluation criteria in solid
tumours: revised RECIST guideline (version 1.1). Eur J Cancer 45, 228–47.

Chapter 11

Cancer prevention
Prevention strategies: introduction 204
Cancer: genetic and environmental risks 205
Smoking-related cancers 206
Cancer prevention: diet 208
Clinical trials of cancer prevention 210
Cancer chemoprevention 212
The role of surgery in cancer prevention 214
Further reading 216

203

204

Chapter 11

Cancer prevention

Prevention strategies: introduction
Chemoprevention is the use of chemical agents or dietary compounds to
reduce the incidence of cancer. The chemical compounds could be trace
elements, hormones, or other medicaments; the dietary compounds could
be fibre, nutrients, vitamins, etc. This field of medical oncology brings
together the disciplines of:
• epidemiology
• carcinogenesis
• toxicology
• pharmacology
• molecular biology
• genetics.
Burkitt observed that colorectal cancer was almost unknown in numerous
tribes in Africa, possibly due to their high-fibre diet. Similarly, a number of
studies associated breast cancer with obesity, and numerous studies have
subsequently attempted to explore the relationship between fat in the diet
and the onset of breast cancer.
There are numerous other risk factors for breast cancer, including many
that have an endocrine basis:
• delayed puberty
• history of nulliparity
• lack of breast feeding
• contraceptive pill in early life
• hormone replacement therapy (HRT) around the menopause.
Manipulation of the risk of breast cancer through endocrine therapy is
therefore a tempting therapeutic target.
Biochemical alterations have been shown in population studies of the
blood of cancer patients. Low levels of retinoids, such as vitamin A and
carotene, and elements, like selenium, have been associated with cancer,
again providing hypotheses to support cancer prevention trials.
Having understood the cancer process and the predisposing factors, it
is easier to identify which patient group might be at highest risk of specific
cancers and might benefit most from an intervention such as a change of
diet or the addition of a medication.

Cancer: genetic and environmental risks

Cancer: genetic and environmental risks
Genetic risks
Patients with certain genetic defects are more likely to get cancer—either
they have overexpressed oncogenes, such as K-ras, or a mutated tumour
suppressor gene such as p53 or Rb.

Environmental risks
•	A number of environmental factors are known to cause pre-malignant
lesions, e.g. chewing tobacco frequently causes leucoplakia, which may
progress to oral cancer.
• Smoking and lung cancer—cigarette smoking remains the most
important avoidable environmental carcinogen worldwide (see
E Smoking-related cancers, p. 206).
•	Viruses have been incriminated in the aetiology of:
• hepatoma (hepatitis viruses)
• BL (EBV)
• nasopharyngeal carcinoma (EBV)
• cervical carcinoma (HPV 16).
•	Vaccines are available against each of these agents. Vaccination against
hepatitis B is commonplace in the West and in the UK; vaccination of
schoolchildren against the papilloma virus for cervical cancer began
in 2008.
• Helicobacter pylori has been linked to gastric carcinoma, and early claims
of eradication of the organism by antibiotics and subsequent protection
from cancer are being validated.
• The association of UV light with skin cancer is well established, as is the
increase of malignant melanoma in the UK (710% per annum).
Overall, it is considered about 50% of all new cancer cases and cancer
deaths worldwide are preventable. In developing countries, the most
important preventable risk factors are smoking (30%), poor diet, obesity,
and lack of exercise (combined) (30%).

205

206

Chapter 11

Cancer prevention

Smoking-related cancers
• Tobacco smoke contains upwards of 4000 chemicals, and, of these,
about 55 are known to be carcinogens. These agents cause DNA
gene mutations. Nicotine per se does not cause cancer but causes the
addiction to tobacco, and hence the exposure to the carcinogens.
• Tobacco use causes 30% of all deaths in the Western world, and an
estimated 10 million deaths each year worldwide.
• Smoking causes about 90% of lung cancers, with a clear dose–response
relationship between the risk of developing cancer and cigarette
consumption.
• Passive smoking is now well recognized to be a danger and a cause of
smoking-related cancers.
• ♂ lung cancer deaths have now decreased, whereas, in ♀, lung cancer
deaths are increasing, and this reflects smoking patterns.
• Smoking is the major cause of cancers of the larynx, mouth, tongue,
pharynx, oesophagus, and lung. Smoking is also a factor in the
development of cancer of the pancreas, kidney, stomach, colon,
bladder, and cervix.
•	In an effort to stop exposure to passive smoking, many countries have
banned smoking in workplaces, restaurants, bars, and other public areas.
Smoking in such public areas has been banned in the UK since 2007.

Smoking-related cancers

207

208

Chapter 11

Cancer prevention

Cancer prevention: diet
This is a controversial area with conflicting data in the literature. Dietary
modifications are difficult to promote in populations.

Dietary fat
Dietary fat promotes tumour growth in animal models, and conversely
energy restriction appears to reduce the incidence of tumours.
Excess dietary fat is associated with cancer of the breast, colon, endometrium, and prostate. Dietary studies are fraught with methodological problems, but nonetheless there are increasing case control and cohort studies
to point towards an association of excess fat in the diet with breast and
colon cancer, in particular. The data showing the relationship between a
high-fat diet and prostate cancer are conflicting.

Dietary fibre
Diets with increased fibre tend to reduce colonic transit time and bind some
potentially carcinogenic chemicals.
RCTs of dietary manipulation are extremely difficult and are dogged by
poor compliance.
In over a dozen case studies, a meta-analysis indicates an inverse relationship between fibre intake and colon cancer. These are mostly retrospective
studies. Prospective studies have produced conflicting data, in particular, the
huge Nurses’ Health Study.
• There is no evidence that increasing fibre in the diet inhibits the
development of colorectal adenomas.
•	Evidence that increased fibre in the diet inhibits the development of
colorectal cancer is uncertain, and data are conflicting.
• Similarly, whilst high-fibre diets may reduce the risk of breast and
stomach cancers, the data are unclear.

Fruit and vegetable consumption
Again, data are conflicting, and the Nurses’ Health Study revealed no association between the consumption of fruit and vegetables during over 1.5 million person years of follow-up.
• Some studies have found an inverse association between fruit and
vegetable consumption and stomach cancer, but again data are conflicting.
• There appears to be little association between fruit and vegetable
consumption and breast cancer.
•	High consumption of fruit and vegetables may be protective for men and
women, who have never smoked, in the development of lung cancer.

Folate
• Folate may reduce carcinogenesis through DNA repair and DNA
methylation.
•	In animals, folate deficiency increases intestinal carcinogenesis.
•	A diet rich in folate may lower the risk of colorectal cancer and the
precursor adenoma.
• Several studies have shown that folate supplementation can decrease
colorectal cancer risk.

Cancer prevention: diet

Carotenoids
These are antioxidants and promote cell differentiation. β-carotene has
been investigated, and the data are conflicting.
In some cancers, early data are encouraging (aspirin in colorectal cancer prevention), whereas, in lung cancer, vitamin supplementation has no
proven role.

209

210

Chapter 11

Cancer prevention

Clinical trials of cancer prevention
The rules in prevention trials in normal people are very different from classical cancer therapeutic trials. During the trials of tamoxifen given as an adjuvant therapy in early breast cancer, it was observed that the incidence of
a second ° breast cancer in the contralateral breast was lower in women
treated with tamoxifen, compared with those treated with placebo. This
led to the hypothesis that tamoxifen might be a cancer-preventive agent,
as well as a cancer therapy. There followed a series of trials leading to the
landmark publication of the Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (BCPT) from
the US in 1998, which showed that tamoxifen could halve the number of
breast cancers observed in normal women at high risk. However, in two
further trials, in different patient populations, no proven benefit in terms of
survival was observed. The role of tamoxifen in the prevention of breast
cancer in high-risk individuals is not clear, and the British view, until recently,
is that the side effects of venous thrombosis/embolism and the risk of
endometrial cancer outweigh the benefits. However, a recent review in the
Lancet (April 2013) of meta-analyses has suggested that chemoprevention
may be of benefit. Careful weighing up of risks versus benefits is required.
NICE guidance on this controversial area permits the use of tamoxifen in
this context.
Whilst tamoxifen and raloxifene decrease breast cancer incidence, there
is no overall effect on survival. Such trials have highlighted problems inherent in chemoprevention studies.
• Which healthy individuals should be invited to participate in such trials?
•	How should these individuals be identified/contacted?
• When should the drug be started, and for how long continued?
• Side effects that are quite acceptable in cancer patients may be
unacceptable in healthy subjects.

Phase I/II clinical trials
The main objective of early clinical trials of chemopreventive agents is to
establish tolerability and side effects of candidate compounds. One major
difference from conventional cytotoxic agents is that the duration of administration of the preventive agent will be much longer than for a cytotoxic,
so chronic side effects are at least as important as acute side effects. For
phase I studies:
• a major side effect would include either fatality, or problems requiring
intervention by a physician, or long-term disability. Major side
effects would automatically rule out any further development of a
chemopreventive agent
• minor side effects may preclude chronic dosing with the agent. The
route of administration is usually oral.
A phase II trial will frequently be of longer duration and may have >1 dose
level. It may be randomized with a placebo control to clarify toxicities.
•	A crucial component in the assessment of the agent at this stage is
compliance, which may require pharmacokinetic confirmation.
• The duration may be 1–5 years, and the sample size could be anything
from 100 to >1000 volunteers or potential patients.

Clinical trials of cancer prevention

• The use of surrogate endpoints is extremely important for cost-efficient
studies, although there are few biomarkers that are of proven value (e.g.
the development of CIS or other precancerous lesion).
•	Ease of recruitment is important, because ‘high risk’ may be clear to a
physician, but not so clear to a normal individual.

Phase III clinical trials
Randomized placebo-controlled phase III studies of chemopreventive
agents need to be large and lengthy. As it is costly, in terms of time and
resources, to test each new agent with the classical phase III design, two
solutions are being tested. One is the concentration on high-risk groups of
individuals, and the other is the development of intermediate biomarkers.
The Euroscan trial investigated people who had been cured of one
smoking-related cancer in the lung, head, or neck. Second cancers are
known to occur in at least 15% of these patients.
• The ° endpoint was the appearance of a second smoking-related
cancer, genotypically different from the first, anywhere in the
aerodigestive tract.
• ‘Ex-patients’ were randomized to receive retinol or acetylcysteine.
•	Retinol induces differentiation and inhibits malignant transformation in
preclinical models.
•	Acetylcysteine has been used widely in chronic bronchitis and works in a
totally different way from retinol. It is a potent antioxidant and increases
intracellular glutathione. It has been shown in laboratory animals to be
an anti-carcinogen.
•	In order to test the possible benefits in combining chemopreventive
agents, the third arm of the Euroscan trial received both agents, and the
fourth arm neither.
• This allows two questions to be answered with half the number of
patients.
•	Nonetheless, the study requires 2500 individuals to be randomized.

Summary
Chemoprevention is in its infancy. New methodologies are being evaluated,
and new surrogate endpoints and novel candidate interventions are emerging rapidly from the revolution in molecular biology and genetics. It is an
extremely promising and exciting branch of oncology.

211

212

Chapter 11

Cancer prevention

Cancer chemoprevention
Principles of chemoprevention
Many human cancers are preventable, because their causes have been
identified in the human environment. Minimization of exposure towards
carcinogens in the environment (° prevention) is an effective strategy in
cancer prevention, e.g. smoking avoidance or cessation. However, most
environmental factors that initiate or promote cancer remain to be identified, and, once identified, the avoidance of such factors may necessitate
difficult lifestyle changes.
Epidemiological data suggesting that cancer is preventable by intervention
with chemicals are based on:
• time trends in cancer incidence and mortality
• geographic variations and effect of migration
• the identification of specific causative factors
• a lack of simple patterns of genetic inheritance for the majority of
human cancers.

Chemopreventive agents
Epithelial carcinogenesis proceeds via multiple discernible steps of molecular and cellular alterations, culminating in invasive neoplasms. These events
can be separated into three distinct phases:
• initiation which is rapid; involves direct carcinogenic damage to DNA,
and the resulting mutation is irreversible
• promotion follows initiation and is generally reversible; involves the clonal
expansion of initiated cells induced by agents acting as mitogens for the
initiated cell
• progression results from promotion in the sense that cell proliferation
caused by promoters allows cellular damage inflicted by initiation to be
further propagated.
During tumour progression, genotypically and phenotypically altered cells
gradually emerge. Both promotion and progression phases are prolonged.
Depending on which phase of carcinogenesis they affect, chemopreventive
agents can be divided into tumour-‘blocking’ agents, which interfere with
cancer initiation, and tumour-‘suppressing’ agents, which inhibit promotion
or progression (see Table 11.1). Blocking agents, such as oltipraz, that prevent the metabolic activation of carcinogens or their subsequent binding to
DNA probably reduce the accumulation of initiating mutations.
Altered states of cell and tissue differentiation are characteristic of
pre-malignant lesions, long before they become invasive. It may be possible
to reverse abnormal differentiation with a hormone-like non-toxic agent.
Two other approaches to the control of pre-neoplastic lesions are to block
their expansion with non-toxic agents that suppress cell replication, or to
induce an apoptotic state in these cells.
Although, in the past, cancer chemopreventive agents have been discovered serendipitously or developed empirically, recent advances in the
understanding of the molecular biology of carcinogenesis offer hope for a
more rational drug design.

Cancer chemoprevention

Table 11.1 Mechanisms of tumour suppression and examples of cancer
chemopreventive agents
Mechanism

Examples

Scavenging O2 radicals

Polyphenols (curcumin, genistein),
selenium, tocopherol (vitamin E)

Inhibition of arachidonic acid
metabolism

Acetylcysteine, NSAIDs (sulindac,
aspirin), polyphenols, tamoxifen

Modulation of signal transduction

NSAIDs, retinoids, tamoxifen, genistein,
curcumin

Modulation of hormonal/growth
factor activity

NSAIDs, retinoids, curcumin, tamoxifen

Inhibition of oncogene activity

Genistein, NSAIDs, monoterpenes
(D-limonene, perillyl alcohol)

Inhibition of polyamine metabolism

2-difluoromethylornithine, retinoids,
tamoxifen

Induction of terminal differentiation

Calcium, retinoids, vitamin D3

Induction of apoptosis

Genistein, curcumin, retinoids,
tamoxifen

NSAIDs, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.

213

214

Chapter 11

Cancer prevention

The role of surgery in cancer prevention
The rationale behind prophylactic surgery is to prevent the development
of cancer in selected patients deemed to be at high risk. A number of scenarios exist, in which prophylactic surgical resection is advocated:
• MEN type II or familial medullary cell thyroid carcinoma—prophylactic
total thyroidectomy is recommended, preferably in childhood, due to
the well-documented time-related progression through dysplasia to
carcinoma. There is debate as to whether a prophylactic central neck
dissection is also indicated in this situation, with some suggesting routine
lymphadenectomy and parathyroid preservation/autotransplantation,
The American Thyroid Association recommends surgery to be carried
out at <1 years of age for those with MEN type IIB, and <5 years for
MEN type IIA and familial thyroid cancer
• Barrett’s oesophagus—as foci of invasive adenocarcinoma are identified
in 30–40% of patients with high-grade dysplasia, prophylactic
oesophageal resection is indicated in such patients. Recent evidence has
suggested that local therapies, such as RFA, may play a role in selected
patients, such as the elderly, to avoid the morbidity of major surgery
• hereditary diffuse gastric cancer (HDGC)—associated with a defect in the
cadherin-1 (CDH1) gene. Individuals at risk are considered candidates
for total gastrectomy
• ulcerative colitis—patients with long-standing (>10 years) total colitis,
in whom high-grade dysplasia is identified, should be considered
candidates for proctocolectomy, with or without an ileoanal pouch. For
patients with lesser degrees of dysplasia, frequent colonoscopy with
biopsy is advised
• hereditary colorectal cancer—up to 30% of colorectal cancers have
evidence of a familial component, and 5% are due to well-characterized
mutations:
• FAP—following the diagnosis of this condition (with >100
adenomas), treatment options include proctocolectomy with an
ileoanal pouch or subtotal colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis and
endoscopic surveillance of the rectum
•	HNPCC—accounts for 5% of all colorectal cancers. There is
currently no consensus regarding surgery, and most units use
colonoscopic surveillance, with colectomy advocated for those
exhibiting high-grade dysplasia, a villous growth pattern, or if not
resectable endoscopically
• hereditary breast cancer:
• 5–10% of patients with hereditary breast carcinoma carry the
BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes, and these individuals have a lifetime risk of
80–90% of getting breast cancer. Patients with BRCA mutations and
a documented moderate or high risk of cancer may opt for bilateral
mastectomy (± breast reconstruction), which is associated with a
95% reduction in cancer risk
• Cowden syndrome—this is an autosomal dominant disorder with
predisposition to breast and endometrial cancers, and follicular
carcinoma of the thyroid. Breast cancer is seen in 25–50% of cases,
and prophylactic mastectomy is considered

The role of surgery in cancer prevention

• hereditary ovarian cancer:
• oophorectomy is considered in women who carry a mutation in
BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes. The lifetime risk lies between 60% and
85%, and, after counselling, some of these women will opt for
laparoscopic prophylactic oophorectomy. This reduces the risk of
ovarian cancer by 97%, and breast cancer by 50%. It is recommended
by 40 years of age, following appropriate family planning
• There is increasing evidence that patients with HNPCC may benefit
from prophylactic hysterectomy and oophorectomy
• intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMNs)—pancreatic resection
is now considered desirable in patients with IPMNs affecting the main
pancreatic duct because of a high prevalence of carcinomas/high-grade
dysplasia (70%)
• porcelain gall bladder—cholecystectomy is advocated in patients with
porcelain gall bladders and also in patients with polyps of ≥10mm in
diameter
• maldescended testis—patients with maldescended testes have a higher
chance of developing testicular cancer of >20 times the general
population:
• 10% of testicular tumours arise from undescended testes
• orchidopexy is generally recommended within the first year or two
of life. However, this does not abolish the risk of developing future
testicular cancer
• it is generally agreed that, in the post-pubertal boy, a non-palpable
undescended testicle should be excised.

215

216

Chapter 11

Cancer prevention

Further reading
Benamouzig R, Chaussade S (2004). Calcium supplementation for preventing colorectal
cancer—where do we stand? Lancet 364, 1197–9.
Berek JS, Chalas E, Edelson M, et al. (2010). Prophylactic and risk-reducing bilateral
salpingo-oophorectomy: recommendations based on risk of ovarian cancer. Obstet Gynecol 116,
733–43.
British Society of Gastroenterology (2005). Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of
Barrett’s columnar-lined oesophagus. A report of the Working Party of the British Society of
Gastroenterology. Available at: M http://www.bsg.org.uk/pdf_word_docs/Barretts_Oes.pdf.
Chan A (2007). Can aspirin prevent colorectal cancer? Lancet 369, 1577–8.
Cuzick J, Sestak I, Bonanni B, et al.; SERM Chemoprevention of Breast Cancer Overview Group
(2013). Selective oestrogen receptor modulators in prevention of breast cancer: an updated
meta-analysis of individual participant data. Lancet 381, 1827–34.
Doll R, Peto R, Boreham J, Sutherland I (2004). Mortality in relation to smoking: 50 years observations on male British doctors. BMJ 328, 1519–28.
Euhus DM, Robinson L (2013). Genetic predisposition syndromes and their management. Surg Clin
North Am 93, 341–62.
Fisher B, Constantino JP, Wickerham DL, et al. (1998). Tamoxifen for prevention of breast
cancer—report of NSABP-1 study. J Int Cancer Inst 90, 1371–88.
Fountoulakis A, Zafirellis KD, Dolan K, Dexter SP, Martin IG, Sue-Ling HM (2004). Effect of surveillance of Barrett’s oesophagus on the clinical outcome of oesophageal cancer. Br J Surg 91,
997–1003.
Hartmann LC, Scharo DJ, Woods JE, et al. (1999). Efficacy of bilateral prophylactic mastectomy in
women with a family history of breast cancer. N Engl J Med 340, 77–84.
Holmes MD, Stampfer MJ, Colditz GA, Rosner B, Hunter DJ, Willett WC (1999). Dietary factors and
survival of women with breast cancer. Cancer 86, 826–35.
Jamrozik K (2005). Estimate of deaths attributable to passive smoking among UK adults: database
analysis. BMJ 330, 812–15.
Kauff ND, Domchek SM, Friebel TM, et al. (2008). Risk reducing salpingo-oophorectomy for the
prevention of BRCA1- and BRCA2-associated breast and gynecologic cancer: a multicenter, prospective study. J Clin Oncol 26, 1331–7.
Kloos RT, Eng C, Evans DB, et al. (2009). Medullary thyroid cancer: management guidelines of the
American Thyroid Association. Thyroid 19, 565–612.
Lostumbo L, Carbine NE, Wallace J (2010). Prophylactic mastectomy for the prevention of breast
cancer. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 10, CD002748.
Lynch HT, Kaurah P, Wirtzfeld D, et al. (2008). Hereditary diffuse gastric cancer: diagnosis, genetic
counseling, and prophylactic total gastrectomy. Cancer 112, 2655–63.
Marrett LD, De P, Airia P, Dryer D (2008). Cancer in Canada in 2008. Can Med Assoc J 179, 1163–70.
McTiernan A (2003). Behavioural risk factors in breast cancer—can risk be modified? Oncologist 8,
326–34.
Mowat C, Cole A, Windsor A, et al. (2011). Guidelines for the management of inflammatory bowel
disease in adults. Gut 60, 571–607.
Norat T, Lukanova A, Ferrari P, Riboli E (2002). Meat consumption and colorectal cancer risk—dose
response meta-analysis of epidemiological studies. Int J Cancer 98, 241–56.
Osborne M, Boyle P, Lipkin M (1997). Cancer prevention. Lancet 349(Suppl 2), S1127–30.
Patel SG, Ahnen DJ (2012). Familial colon cancer syndromes: an update of a rapidly evolving field.
Curr Gastroenterol Rep 14, 428–38.
Potter JD (1999). Fiber and colorectal cancer—where to now? N Engl J Med 340, 223–4.
Slatore CG, Littman AJ, Au DH, Satia JA, White E (2007). Long-term use of supplemental multivitamins, vitamin C, vitamin E, and folate does not reduce the risk of lung cancer. Am J Respir Care
Med 177, 524–30.
Turner N, Jones AL (2008). Management of breast cancer—part I. BMJ 337, a421.
Wands JR (2004). Prevention of hepatocellular carcinoma. N Engl J Med 351, 1567–70.
Willet WC, Stampfer MJ, Colditz GA, Rosner BA, Speizer FE (1990). Relationship of meat, fat and
fiber intake to the risk of colon cancer in a prospective study among women. N Engl J Med 323,
1664–72

Chapter 12

Population screening
for cancer
Screening for cancer 218
Further reading 222

217

218

Chapter 12

Population screening for cancer

Screening for cancer
Principles
Screening is the process whereby asymptomatic individuals are tested in
order to detect a disease that has yet to be symptomatic. For this to be
effective in a population, there are certain criteria that must be met by the
disease in question, the screening test, and the screening programme.
The disease
• Its natural history is well understood.
• It has a recognizable ‘early’ stage.
• Treatment at an early stage is more successful than at a later stage.
• It is sufficiently common in the target population to warrant screening.
The test
• Sensitive and specific.
• Acceptable.
• Safe.
• Inexpensive.
The programme
• Adequate facilities for diagnosis in those with a positive test.
• High quality of treatment for screen-detected disease.
• Screening repeated at intervals if the disease is of insidious onset.
• Benefit must outweigh physical and psychological harm.
• Benefit must justify the financial cost.
It is crucial that treating the disease to be screened at an early stage is
more effective than treating at a later stage. To justify a screening programme, one cannot compare the outcome of screen-detected disease
with that of symptomatic disease, because three biases operate in favour of
screen-detected disease.
• Lead time bias arises from the fact that, if early diagnosis advances the
time of diagnosis of a disease, then the period from diagnosis to death
will lengthen, irrespective of whether or not treatment has altered the
natural history of the disease. If patients die of their cancer at the same
age at which this event would have occurred without screening, no
benefit has been afforded by screening. Screening will only be of value if
it improves the survival curve of a screened population, compared with
unscreened.
• Length bias operates, as slow-growing tumours are more likely to be
detected by screening tests, when compared to fast-growing tumours,
which are more likely to present with symptoms before a screening
test can be applied or between tests. Thus, screen-detected tumours
will tend to be less aggressive and associated with a relatively good
prognosis.
• Selection bias results from the characteristics of individuals who
accept an invitation to be screened. Such a person is more likely to be
health-conscious than one who refuses or ignores screening and may
therefore be more likely to survive longer, irrespective of the disease
process.

Screening for cancer

Screening
In screening, it is also important to have a target population to avoid large
numbers of fruitless tests in individuals at low risk of cancer. In screening for
the common cancers, where the incidence is highly age-dependent, the age
range should be that in which the disease is relatively common and in which
the patients are likely to be fit, enough for curative treatment.
There are other predictors of risk, and family history is becoming important in this respect, particularly as it is now possible to detect specific
genetic mutations from blood samples and to use these to screen close
relatives. Examples of this are mutations in the APC gene in FAP, in the DNA
mismatch repair genes in HNPCC, and in the BRCA1 and 2 genes in familial
breast and ovarian cancers.
A screening test must be acceptable and safe, so that it will be adopted
by the target population. It must also be sensitive and specific. Sensitivity is
the proportion of individuals with the disease who have a positive test, and
specificity is the proportion of individuals without the disease who have a
negative test.

Screening programmes
When a screening programme is established, it is important that the diagnostic facilities are adequate. Similarly, treatment of early disease must be
associated with minimal morbidity and mortality.
It must also be remembered that screening may cause psychological harm, and, along with any physical morbidity caused by investigation
and treatment, this represents part of the cost of screening. The benefits
gained through cancer screening must outweigh such morbidity, and society
must make a decision whether or not the health gain justifies these and the
financial costs.
Breast cancer screening
The breast cancer screening programme, first introduced in the UK in 1986,
currently consists of 3-yearly mammography of women between 50 and
70 years of age. Women over 70 are entitled to screening, with appointments arranged via their general practitioner (GP) or local screening unit.
It is now accepted that mammographic screening reduces mortality, with
breast cancer mortality falling steeply since the 1980s in the UK, indeed as
a result of the screening programme, more so than in any major European
country. The statistics, according to a Cochrane review, suggest that 2000
women need to be screened for 10 years to prevent one death from breast
cancer.
A further concern was the overdiagnosis of small cancers—cancers that
would not likely have been diagnosed and treated in a woman’s lifetime.
In an analysis of Swedish RCT and NHS screening data, it was shown that
2–2.5 lives are saved for every overdiagnosed case.
There is current debate about the cost effectiveness of beginning
breast cancer screening under the age of 50 years. This is discussed in detail
in E Breast cancer screening, pp. 274–6.

219

220

Chapter 12

Population screening for cancer

Cervical cancer screening
Cervical cancer screening is performed in the UK by GPs. The programme
invites women aged 25–50 every 3 years, and those aged 50–64 every
5 years, for a cervical smear. Liquid-based cytology is used to detect evidence of dyskaryosis. For mild dyskaryosis, a repeat smear or colposcopy
is recommended, and, for those with moderate or severe dyskaryosis, a
colposcopy is arranged. The colposcopy allows improved visualization
and biopsy, and so a more accurate assessment of cervical intraepithelial
neoplasia (CIN).
Whilst screening was introduced in a non-controlled fashion, in the
absence of clinical trials, it is thought that the decrease in mortality from
cervical cancer is largely due to screening.
The US Preventative Service Task Force (USPSTF) has released new
guidelines in 2013, recommending screening women aged 21–65 years with
cytology every 3 years. and for women aged 30–65 years who want to
lengthen the screening interval, screening with a combination of cytology
and HPV testing every 5 years.
Colorectal cancer screening
The NHS bowel cancer screening programme commenced in England
in 2006, inviting men and women aged 60–69 years, and has since been
extended up to the age of 75 years. There are slight variations in protocol
across England, Northern Ireland, Scotland, and Wales (M http://www.
screening.nhs.uk/bowelcancer-compare). Screening is by means of a home
faecal occult blood (FOB) test. Patients with no blood are reassured and
offered a further test in 2 years. If traces of blood are identified, individuals
are requested to retest on up to two further occasions. Individuals with
definite positive results are called for a nurse review and offered colonoscopy. The data show that the cost of this programme is 7£20 000 per year
of life saved. It has been estimated that 2500 lives will be saved each year in
the UK by 2025 by bowel cancer screening.
In 2016, an additional screening option will consist of a one-off flexible
sigmoidoscopy at age 55.
In the US, screening begins at age 50 until 75. The USPTSF recommends
different schedules, depending on the screening procedure used. For
programmes using FOB testing, annual high-sensitivity FOBs are recommended, and for clinicians using flexible sigmoidoscopy as procedure every
5 years and for colonoscopy, an examination every 10 years.
Those at high risk of colorectal cancer should have screening earlier and
more frequently.
Lung and prostate cancer
There are currently no national screening programmes for lung or prostate
cancer in the UK.
The potential for lung cancer screening is currently being assessed by
the United Kingdom Lung Cancer Screening (UKLS) trial, sponsored by the
Department of Health, which has recently closed after randomizing a study
group of 4000 individuals into screening with low-dose CT or observation.
Results are expected in 2016. The National Lung Cancer Screening Trial in
the US studied 50 000 individuals and showed a 20% decrease in lung cancer

Screening for cancer

deaths. The American Cancer Society does not currently recommend general population screening but does so for smokers aged 50–74 who are
generally fit, have a 30-year pack history, and who are current smokers or
have ceased in the past 15 years.
There is currently no national screening programme for prostate cancer
in the UK, but Public Health England are currently reviewing the need for
such a programme, with guidelines expected to be published soon. The
American Cancer Society guidelines advocate patient choice after discussion with their doctor, as there is currently no evidence for a benefit of
screening.

221

222

Chapter 12

Population screening for cancer

Further reading
Agrawal J, Syngal S (2005). Colon cancer screening strategies. Curr Opin Gastroenterol 21, 59–63.
Beral V, Peto R (2010). UK cancer survival statistics. BMJ 341, c4112.
Berry DA (1998). Benefits and risks of screening mammography for women in their forties—a statistical appraisal. J Natl Cancer Inst 90, 1431–9.
Duffy SW, Tabar L, Olsen AH, et al. (2010). Absolute numbers of lives saved and overdiagnosis in breast cancer screening, from a randomized trial and from the Breast Cancer Screening
Programme in England. J Med Screen 17, 25–30.
Elmore JG, Barton MB, Moceri VM, Polk S, Arena PJ, Fletcher SW (1998). Ten-year risk of false
positive screening mammograms and clinical breast examinations. N Engl J Med 338, 1089–96.
Goodman GE (1992). The clinical evaluation of cancer chemoprevention agents: defining and contrasting phase I, II and III objectives. Cancer Res (Suppl) 52, 2752–7.
Harris R, Lohr KN (2002). Screening for prostate cancer—an update of the evidence for the US
Preventative Services Task Force. Ann Intern Med 137, 917–29.
Kmietowicz Z (2009). Screening for bowel cancer is set to save 2500 lives a year in UK. BMJ
337, a3125.
Mayor S (2004). England to start national bowel cancer screening programme. BMJ 329, 1061.
Meyskens FL Jr (1992). Biomarker intermediate endpoints and cancer prevention. J Natl Cancer Inst
Monogr 13, 177–81.
Peto J, Gilham C, Fletcher O, Matthews FE (2004). The cervical cancer epidemic that screening has
prevented in the UK. Lancet 364, 249–56.
Shaheen NJ, Indomi JM, Overholt BF, Sharma P (2004). What is the best management strategy for
high grade dysplasia in Barrett’s oesophagus? A cost effectiveness analysis. Gut 53, 1736–44.
Sporn MB (1993). Chemoprevention of cancer. Lancet 342, 1211–12.
Turner NS, Jones AL (2008). Management of breast cancer—part I. BMJ 337, a421.
Van Schoor G, Broeders MJM, Paap E, Otten JD, den Heeten GJ, Verbeek AL (2008). A rationale for
starting breast cancer screening under age 50. Ann Oncol 19, 1208–9.
Wilson DD, Weissfeld JL, Fuhrman CR, et al. (2008). The Pittsburgh Lung Screening study
(PLuSS): outcomes within 3 years of a first computed tomography scani Am J Respir Crit Care
Med 178, 956–61.
Winawer S, Fletcher R, Rex D, et al. (2003). Colorectal cancer screening and surveillance: clinical
guidelines and rationale—Update based on new evidence. Gastroenterology 124, 544–60.

Part 4

Specific types
of cancer
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29

Thoracic malignancies
Breast cancer
Colorectal cancer
Anal cancer
Upper gastrointestinal cancer
Endocrine cancers
Genitourinary cancers
Gynaecological cancers
Head and neck cancers
Tumours of the central nervous system
Skin cancers
Haematological malignancies
Bone and soft tissue malignancies
Malignancy of unknown primary
Paraneoplastic syndromes
AIDS-related malignancies
Childhood cancers presenting in adults

225
261
299
311
317
381
403
445
467
495
523
549
603
629
645
655
671

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies
Lung cancer 226
Non-small-cell lung cancer 232
Surgery for non-small-cell lung cancer 234
Chemotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer 238
Radiotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer 242
Small-cell lung cancer 245
Chemotherapy for small-cell lung cancer 246
Radiotherapy for small-cell lung cancer 248
Surgery for small-cell lung cancer 250
Mesothelioma 252
Thymic tumours 256
Surgery for pulmonary metastatic disease (metastasectomy) 259

225

226

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Lung cancer
Epidemiology
The statistics are a stark reminder of the cost of this largely preventable
disease.
• The second commonest cancer in the UK (breast cancer commoner),
13% of all cancers.
• In 2009, there were 42 026 new lung cancers in the UK, affecting 23 175
men and 18 851 women.
• Lung cancer is the most frequent cause of cancer deaths in both men
and women in the UK and US.
• In 2010, there were 34 859 deaths from lung cancer in the UK, 160 000
deaths in the US.
• The incidence and mortality rate are falling in men in these countries,
but rising in women in the UK (see Table 13.1).
• Worldwide, the incidence is continuing to rise, particularly in developing
countries, as cigarette smoking becomes more prevalent.
• Survival rates remain dismal, with 5y survival of <9% in the UK, <15% in
the US.

Aetiology
• 80–90% of lung cancers are due to smoking.
• The risk of lung cancer relates to the number of cigarettes smoked, the
number of years of smoking, early age starting to smoke, and the type
of cigarette (greater risk with unfiltered and high nicotine).
• <10% of lung cancers occur in never-smokers, usually women.
•	Passive smoking.
•	Asbestos.
•	Previous radiotherapy to the chest.
• Rarely, inhalation of radon gas, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, nickel,
chromate, or inorganic arsenicals.

Screening and prevention
• Lung cancer is a preventable disease.
• Currently, 30% of the adult population of the UK smokes.
•	Health education has had some success in reducing tobacco
consumption in men.
•	However, smoking in women and adolescents is increasing in the UK.
• Stopping smoking reduces the risk of developing lung cancer.
• Nicotine replacement therapy can improve smoking cessation rates.
• Screening with chest X-ray (CXR) and sputum cytology does not reduce
mortality from lung cancer.
• Clinical trials are currently testing whether regular spiral CT scans of the
chest might be a useful screening tool for lung cancer, e.g. in smokers.
• The UK ban on smoking in public and workplaces from 2007 may, in the
longer term, decrease lung cancer rates with less passive smoking.

Lung cancer

Table 13.1 Lung cancer incidence figures
Sex

UK incidence by year (age-adjusted, per 100 000 population)
1980

2009

♂

113

59

♀

28

39

Pathology
There is evidence that lung cancers may arise in pluripotent stem cells in the
bronchial epithelium, and this would certainly offer an explanation for the
mixed histology that is fairly commonly seen. The 2004 WHO pathological
classification is as follows:
1. SCC (30%)
2. small-cell carcinoma (SCLC, 15–20%)
3. adenocarcinoma (40%):
a. minimally invasive
b. invasive
c. variants, e.g. mucinous adenocarcinoma
4. large-cell carcinoma
5. adenosquamous carcinoma
6. sarcomatoid carcinoma
7. carcinoid tumour
8. carcinomas of salivary gland type:
a. mucoepidermoid carcinoma
b. adenoid cystic carcinoma
9. unclassified carcinomas.
For the purposes of management, lung cancers are grouped as NSCLC
or SCLC, but, within the former, certain patterns of disease do relate to
the histological subtype. For example, squamous cancers typically arise in
proximal segmental bronchi and grow slowly, disseminating relatively late
in their course. Adenocarcinomas are often peripheral in origin, and even
small resectable lesions carry a risk of occult metastases. Common sites of
metastatic spread include the regional lymph nodes, bone, liver, adrenal,
lung, CNS, and skin.
However, the risk of dissemination is greatest in SCLC where it is estimated that >90% of patients have either overt or occult metastases at
presentation. These aggressive tumours, derived from neuroendocrine
cells, most frequently arise in large airways but can rarely present as a small
peripheral nodule. The latter presentation may be indicative of a different
pathology with an inherently better prognosis.
Recent progress in the molecular subclassification of NSCLC has resulted
from the identification of driver mutations, particularly in adenocarcinomas,
which can provide targets for systemic therapy. Mutations of the EGFR TK
domain, which may result in sensitivity to EGFR TKIs, occur mainly in ♀
non-smoking patients, in particular those of Asian origin. Chromosomal
rearrangement leads to the activation of the anaplastic lymphoma kinase
(ALK) gene in 3–6% of NSCLC and similarly predicts the sensitivity to treatment with the ALK inhibitor crizotinib.

227

228

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Genetics
The majority of clinically apparent lung cancers have >20 genetic alterations
acquired in a stepwise fashion. These may disrupt cell cycle regulation and
cause genomic instability, but they also result in failure to undergo apoptosis, the invasion of normal tissues, and dissemination to other tissues.
Examples of the relevant genes include:
• oncogene activation:
•	EGFR overexpression, leading to the stimulation of this proliferative
pathway (70% of SCLCs, 40% of adenocarcinomas)
• point mutation of RAS or MYC, activating signal transduction
pathways
• tumour suppressor gene inactivation:
• p53 alteration is frequent (>80% of SCLC, 50% of NSCLC)
• high BCL2 expression in SCLC protects against apoptosis
• angiogenesis—tumour progression and metastasis:
• VEGF receptor—high levels of VEGF expression are detected in 50%
of all lung cancers
• telomerase activation occurs in 100% of SCLC and 80% of NSCLC
• specific genetic alterations in NSCLC, such as the driver EGFR TK
mutation, should be specifically sought in adenocarcinomas.
Genetic predisposition to development of lung cancer
• Family history of lung cancer increases the risk by × 2.5, even when
smoking is taken into account.
• Likely mechanisms include genetic variation in the enzymes responsible
for carcinogen metabolism and detoxification, and DNA damage repair.
• Rarely, germline mutation of Rb or p53.

Presenting symptoms and signs
Typically, presentation is late, symptoms such as persistent cough and dyspnoea being attributed to smoking. Small adenocarcinomas in the periphery
of the lung may be asymptomatic, picked up on CXR or CT scan done for
coincidental indication.
•	Persistent cough, haemoptysis, dyspnoea.
• Recurrent chest infections.
•	Pleural effusion.
• Chest pain (constant, progressive).
•	Hoarse voice (vocal cord palsy).
• Wheeze, stridor.
• SVC obstruction (SVCO).
•	Horner’s syndrome, arm or hand pain, and neurological deficit (apical
cancer).
• Fatigue.
•	Anorexia, weight loss.
•	Paraneoplastic syndromes (see Chapter 27).
• Symptoms from metastatic disease.

Lung cancer

Investigations
(See Fig. 13.1 and NICE Guideline 121, 2011.)
After physical examination and CXR, patients with suspected lung cancer require further imaging with CT scan (chest and abdomen, including
the liver and adrenals) and a tissue diagnosis, obtained by the least invasive
route. Increasingly, core biopsy is preferred over FNA cytology, in order to
provide a more accurate molecular subclassification of lung cancer:
• sputum cytology (rarely used now)
• core biopsy or FNA cytology from palpable disease, most commonly
supraclavicular fossa (SCF) nodes
• bronchoscopy with direct biopsy, brushings/washings for cytology, or
transbronchial biopsy of the lung or lymph node (e.g. under EUS control)
• pleural aspirate cytology or pleural biopsy
• FNA or core biopsy of peripheral lung lesion
• FNA or core biopsy in metastatic disease, e.g. liver
• mediastinoscopy and lymph node biopsy
• video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) and biopsy
• rarely, open lung biopsy.
Other important assessments include performance status (see Table 13.2),
pulmonary function tests, full blood count (FBC), and biochemical profile.
Patients with symptoms suggestive of metastatic disease may require isotope bone scan or CT brain.
Table 13.2 Performance status scales, NICE guidelines
WHO (Zubrod) scale

Karnofsky scale

0, asymptomatic

100, asymptomatic

1, symptomatic but ambulatory (able to
carry out light work)

90, normal activity, minor symptoms

2, in bed <50% of day (unable to work but
able to live at home with some assistance)

70, unable to work, cares for self

3, in bed >50% of day (unable to care
for self )

50, considerable assistance

4, bedridden

30, needs some active supportive care

80, normal activity, some symptoms
60, occasional assistance with needs
40, disabled, full assistance needed
20, very sick, hospitalization needed
10, moribund
0, dead

Reproduced from Detterbeck FC, et al. (2001). Diagnosis and treatment of lung cancer: an evidencebased guide for the practising clinician. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, p. 40, with permission from Elsevier.

All patients undergoing investigations for suspected lung cancer should be
seen by a lung cancer clinical nurse specialist to help guide and inform them
through this process and facilitate communication between the MDT, GP,
and patient.
The importance of smoking cessation should be emphasized, even before
the diagnosis is confirmed.

229

230

Thoracic malignancies

Chapter 13

Symptoms and
signs
CXR

CXR normal?
No

Yes Low suspicion of
lung cancer?
No

Yes

Observe/manage
patient

Urgent referral to chest physician member of
MDT—clinical examination, history, blood test
Clinical signs indicate advanced
metastatic disease?
No

Yes

No

Chest physician suspects lung cancer?

Manage patient

Yes
CT scan
CT negative or inconclusive?

Yes

No
Evidence of advanced metastatic disease?
Yes
No
Biopsy most
accessible place

Peripheral Fit for percutaneous
Central or
peripheral lesion?
needle biopsy?
No
Central
Yes

Fit for
bronchoscopy?
No
Sputum cytology

Percutaneous
needle biopsy

Yes
Bronchoscopy

Positive result?

No

Further basis, such
as PET, surgical
invasive procedure
Diagnosis possible
with or without No
histology?
Yes
Referral/
surveillance

Yes

Diagnosis

Fig. 13.1 Diagnosis of lung cancer.
MDT, multidisciplinary team; PET, positron emission tomography. Reproduced with permission
from the National Clinical Guidelines Centre – Acute and Chronic Conditions (2005).

Lung cancer

231

232

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Non-small-cell lung cancer
Staging
(See M https://cancerstaging.org to download the TNM staging; also see
Fig. 13.2 and NICE Guideline 121, 2011.)
The following assessments are required:
• clinical examination (particular attention to cervical, SCF, and axillary
lymphadenopathy, and soft tissue masses, e.g. chest wall)
• CT of the chest and abdomen:
• size and site of the ° tumour
• relationship to the lung fissures, mediastinum, chest wall
• mediastinal or other lymphadenopathy (may also require ultrasound
examination of neck nodes)
• metastatic disease, in particular, the lung, pleura, liver, adrenal, bone
• CT brain and isotope bone scan performed if clinical suspicion of
metastatic disease
• bronchoscopy (performed after CT):
• movement of vocal cords
• site of the endobronchial tumour in relation to the carina and major
bronchial divisions
• extrinsic compression of the bronchi
• may be combined with transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA),
assisted by endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS), if lymphadenopathy
(>10mm) apparent on CT.

Positron emission tomography scanning
Fluorodeoxyglucose PET (FDG-PET) scanning has greater sensitivity and
specificity than CT scan for staging NSCLC and is recommended for preoperative assessment. It is also recommended to exclude metastatic disease in
patients being considered for radical non-surgical treatment.

Mediastinal node biopsy
Lymph node biopsy is required when PET-CT scan suggests localized
lymph node spread, either by TBNA, assisted by EBUS and/or EUS, or by
mediastinoscopy.

Other investigations
Solitary metastatic disease in an otherwise potentially curable case requires
biopsy to confirm. Increasingly, CT or MRI of the brain is used to exclude
CNS metastasis in patients being considered for radical therapy for stage
III disease.

Multidisciplinary team meetings
Key to the optimal management of lung cancers is the multidisciplinary discussion of each case, with input from radiologists and pathologists, as well
as chest physicians, thoracic surgeons, clinical and medical oncologists, and
lung cancer nurse specialists. The team should consider the sequence of
investigations, in order to maximize the derived information concerning the
diagnosis and staging of the disease, with minimum risk to the patient.

Non-small-cell lung cancer

Clinical evaluation for distant
metastases

Positive

Negative
Examine chest CT scan
But:
• Consider other techniques such as
ultrasound or surgical assessment
for mediastinal and chest wall invasion
as CT alone may not be reliable
• Use MRI if necessary to assess
extent of disease for superior
sulcus tumours.
NB: MRI scanning should not be routine
in T-staging
Is the patient in one if these groups:
• a candidate for surgery
• a candidate for radical radiotherapy
• a candidate for radical combination
treatment
• has limited N2/3 disease
(1–2 stations) of unknown
pathological significance and is
otherwise a surgical candidate?
Yes
PET scan
Positive
Positive for mediastinal disease
or distant metastases (definite
distant metastases or high
probability that N2/3 disease is
metastatic, e.g. there
are chains of high FDG update)
Histological/cytological
confirmation not required

Imaging and/or biopsy of potential
metastatic site:
• brain—MRI/CT
• bone—X-ray and bone scan or
MRI if required
• liver and adrenals—CT if not
performed already
Positive
Negative

Staging complete

No

PET not available

Suspicious

Histological sampling of suspected
N2/3 disease (nodes with a short
axis >1cm on CT) for
patients being considered for
surgery or radical radiotherapy
Negative

Suspicious for mediastinal
disease or distant metastases

Negative for mediastinal disease
and distant metastases

Histological/cytological
confirmation of appropriate site

Histological/cytological
confirmation not required

Fig. 13.2 Histological sampling of suspected N2/3 disease (nodes with a short axis
of >1cm on CT) for patients being considered for surgery or radical radiotherapy.
Reproduced with permission from the National Clinical Guidelines Centre – Acute and Chronic
Conditions (2005).

233

234

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Surgery for non-small-cell lung cancer
Introduction
• Surgical resection with curative intent is regarded as the treatment of
first choice for patients with NSCLC.
• The principle of surgical resection is to achieve clear margins, and every
patient with non-metastatic NSCLC should be considered for surgical
treatment.
• The Society of Cardiothoracic Surgery has indicated that, in the UK, the
number of patients undergoing surgery has increased by 60% in recent
years, and the perioperative mortality has halved.

Principle of surgery
Preoperative assessment
Before embarking on surgery, all cases should be discussed in an MDT setting, and the following elements confirmed:
• histological/cytological confirmation of the diagnosis
• operable stage of the disease:
• no evidence of metastasis on PET scan
• mediastinoscopy and lymph node biopsy may be required if
endobronchial and endoscopic biopsies are inconclusive—lymph
nodes that appear of normal size on CT (<1cm in diameter) may
contain cancer (715%), whilst enlarged lymph nodes are commonly
reactive (45%)
• in the presence of a pleural effusion, aspirated fluid cytology and
pleural biopsy should be negative for cancer cells before proceeding
with an operation
• fitness for surgery.
A detailed protocol for the preoperative work-up is included in the British
Thoracic Society (BTS) guidelines.
•	Age is not an absolute contraindication.
• Need to take into account the performance status, weight loss, and
co-morbidities that may exclude surgery as a feasible option.
•	Pulmonary function tests, spirometry, and gas transfer, taking account of
predicted values and the extent of surgery planned.
• Cardiac assessment—may require exercise testing and at least an
echocardiography.
•	Avoid lung resection within 30 days of myocardial infarction (MI),
and commence/continue anti-ischaemic treatments pre-and
post-operatively.
Thoracotomy and major lung resection carry significant risks of morbidity
and mortality. Surgery for lung cancer should be carried out promptly in a
unit with the appropriate level of experience and expertise. In the majority
of patients, general anaesthesia, with the use of a double-lumen endotracheal tube, is desirable to allow one-lung ventilation during thoracotomy.
With specialization, increasingly resections are being done using a VATS
approach, as this is associated with similar oncological outcomes, but with
less post-operative morbidity.

Surgery for non-small-cell lung cancer

Surgical techniques
The extent of surgery will depend on the anatomical location, size, and
stage of the tumour.
• The standard approach is a lobectomy, using either an open or
thoracoscopic approach.
• More extensive surgery (bronchoangioplastic, bilobectomy,
pneumonectomy) is justified, in order to obtain negative margins in
selected patients.
• For patients with smaller tumours (T1a–b, N0, M0) and those of
borderline fitness, segmental or wedge resection may be considered, as
long as complete resection can be achieved.
•	Patients with T3 disease, with involvement of the chest wall,
pericardium, or diaphragm, can be considered candidates for resection
if an en bloc dissection can be performed with negative margins.
•	All operations should include hilar and mediastinal lymph node sampling.
Post-operative management
Patients should be nursed in an intensive care or high dependency unit, with
adequate monitoring of the:
• electrocardiogram (ECG)
• BP
• central venous pressure (CVP)
• respiratory rate
• O2 saturation.
Adequate pain control is essential, following a thoracotomy, and can be
provided by:
• thoracic epidural anaesthesia (now routine)
• IV opiates administered by patient-controlled analgesia (PCA)
• intercostal nerve block prior to wound closure.
Routine post-operative ventilation is no longer needed.
O2 therapy is required in the early post-operative stage, preferably
through a nebulizer, and, in patients with significant airways obstruction, a
bronchodilator should be added. Regular chest physiotherapy is essential,
together with incentive spirometry.
Post-operative complications
Early (within days)
•	Haemorrhage (e.g. after dissection of pleural adhesions) may result in a
haemothorax.
• Respiratory failure:
• opiate-induced respiratory depression
• pneumothorax with, or without, surgical emphysema
• atelectasis due to retained bronchial secretions.
•	Prolonged air leak following a lobectomy.
• Cardiac arrhythmias, particularly atrial fibrillation (AF).
• Sepsis:
• chest infection
• wound infection
• empyema.
• Broncho-pleural fistula (particularly on the right, following a
pneumonectomy).

235

236

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Late (within weeks to months)
•	Post-thoracotomy pain.
• Late broncho-pleural fistula with empyema.
Results of lung resection
The post-operative mortality rate should be <3% following a lobectomy,
and <5% following a pneumonectomy. The 5y survival is influenced by a
number of factors, the most important of which is the pathological staging
(see Table 13.3). Overall, the 5y survival for patients undergoing resection
may be as high as 40%, approaching 70% in cases without nodal involvement
(N0). However, when mediastinal nodes are involved (N2), only 15% of
patients will survive 5y.
Adjuvant chemotherapy
• Offer cisplatin-based combination adjuvant chemotherapy to patients
with a good performance status (WHO 0 or 1) and T1–3, N1–2,
M0 NSCLC.
• Consider the same regimen with T2–3, N0, M0 tumours of >4cm
in size.
Table 13.3 5y survival after surgery for NSCLC
Stage

5y survival (%)

IA
IB

58–73
43–58

IIA

36–46

IIB

25–36

IIIA

19–24

IIIB

7–9

IV

2–13

Surgery for non-small-cell lung cancer

237

238

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Chemotherapy for non-small-cell
lung cancer
Older studies with alkylating agents in advanced NSCLC showed decreased
survival with chemotherapy, and, until the 1980s, no systemic treatments
were available with objective response rates in excess of 20%. Over the last
20y, there has been significant progress in this area and an increasing use of
chemotherapy in most stages of the disease.

Metastatic disease
Tumour response and survival
Cisplatin-based chemotherapy with 1980s regimens, such as MVP (mitomycin, vinblastine, cisplatin) and MIC (mitomycin, ifosfamide, cisplatin), produced significant benefits in stage IV disease.
• Symptom relief and improved quality of life in >50%.
• Objective response rate of 20–30%:
• little benefit and increased toxicity in patients with performance
status (PS) 2 or worse.
• Modest impact on survival:
• median survival increased by 2mo, compared with no chemotherapy
• 1y survival of 25% (without chemotherapy 15%).
• Toxicities of treatment include nausea, vomiting, lethargy,
myelosuppression, sepsis, thromboembolism, and neuropathy.
During the 1990s, several new drugs demonstrated anti-tumour activity in
NSCLC as single agents and in combination with carboplatin or cisplatin
(see Table 13.4 and Table 13.5).
• These drugs included docetaxel, gemcitabine, paclitaxel, and vinorelbine.
• Doublet regimens (one new drug plus a platinum complex) proved
superior to MVP/MIC, in terms of response rate and survival.
• None of the new chemotherapy regimens appeared superior to the
others.
• Doublet therapy with the combination of either cisplatin or carboplatin
and one of gemcitabine/vinorelbine/paclitaxel/docetaxel was accepted
as standard therapy for advanced NSCLC (approved by NICE in
June 2001).
• Little evidence to justify >4 cycles of chemotherapy.
• Single-agent chemotherapy with agents, such as gemcitabine or
vinorelbine, can be of modest benefit in patients with advanced disease
and PS 2.
Recent advances in chemotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer
Since 2000, significant progress has been made in the systemic treatment
of advanced NSCLC:
• first-line therapy can be tailored to the molecular subtype of NSCLC
• pemetrexed and cisplatin or carboplatin preferred for adenocarcinoma
or large-cell carcinoma (median survival 12.6 and 10.4mo, respectively)
•	EGFR TKIs (erlotinib or gefitinib) for adenocarcinoma with sensitive
EGFR TK mutation (PFS >9mo, OS 19mo)
• Crizotinib for adenocarcinoma with chromosomal rearrangement
leading to activation of ALK (PFS >9mo, OS not yet known)

Chemotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer

• second-line treatment of advanced disease is feasible and of modest
benefit in patients with a good performance status, usually with
single-agent chemotherapy which the patient has not previously
received—docetaxel, or pemetrexed, or erlotinib.
Quality of life
Although cytotoxic regimens produce objective tumour response rates of
the order of 20–50% in advanced NSCLC, symptom improvement can be
achieved in a greater proportion of patients.
• Cough, haemoptysis, and pain are relieved in 70%.
•	Anorexia in 40%.
• Dyspnoea in 30%.
Table 13.4 Single agents for NSCLC—results in stages IIIB–IV
Drug

Number of
patients

1y survival (%)

Median
survival (wk)

Response
rate (%)

Vinorelbine

621

20

32.5

24

Gemcitabine

572

21

40.6

39

Paclitaxel

317

26

37.3

41

Docetaxel

300

26

41

52

Topotecan

119

13

38

35

Data from Bunn PA Jr, Kelly K (1998). New chemotherapeutic agents prolong survival and
improve quality of life in non-small cell lung cancer: a review of the literature and future
directions. Clin Cancer Res 4, 1087–100.

Table 13.5 Platinum-based combination therapies for NSCLC
Drug combination

Number of Response rate Median
patients
(%)
survival (wk)

1y survival
(%)

Paclitaxel + C

333

46

38

40

Vinorelbine + P

328

41

38

35–40

Paclitaxel + P

286

42

42

36

Docetaxel + P

255

35

35

58

Gemcitabine + P

245

47

57

61

Topotecan + P

22

22

32

26

P, cisplatin; C, carboplatin.
Data from Bunn PA Jr, Kelly K (1998). New chemotherapeutic agents prolong survival and
improve quality of life in non-small cell lung cancer: a review of the literature and future
directions. Clin Cancer Res 5, 1087–100.

239

240

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Stage III disease
About 30% of NSCLC patients present with locally advanced disease, but
with no evidence of metastases. This is a heterogeneous group, with an
overall poor prognosis, but includes some patients who may have durable
responses to appropriate radical therapy. In general, responses to chemotherapy are more frequent in localized, compared with metastatic, disease,
but the benefits of chemotherapy are again limited to patients with a good
performance status.
The same cisplatin or carboplatin chemotherapy doublets are used, with
the following principles:
• response to chemotherapy should improve symptoms, reduce
loco-regional disease prior to local therapy, and reduce microscopic
metastatic disease
• platinum-based combination chemotherapy, followed by radiotherapy,
gives better survival rates than radiotherapy alone (3y survival of
13–23% versus 6%)
• a commonly used regimen for patients with PS 0–1 is four cycles of a
platinum-based doublet, followed by radiotherapy, to residual chest disease
• patients with progressive disease or serious toxicity on chemotherapy
require prompt treatment with radiotherapy
• patients with a poor performance status may be treated with palliative
radiotherapy only
• selection and coordination of appropriate therapy require close
cooperation of medical and radiation oncologists within the MDT.
Chemo-radiotherapy
Cisplatin and vinorelbine are potent radiosensitizers, and there is increasing
evidence that concomitant delivery of chemotherapy and radiotherapy is
more effective than sequential delivery, but toxicity (in particular, oesophagitis
and pneumonitis) remains a problem, and an optimum chemotherapy regimen
and fractionation schedule for radiotherapy are yet to be determined.
Surgery for locally advanced disease
Where stage III disease appears resectable by pneumonectomy (e.g. stage
IIIA disease where only the ipsilateral mediastinal nodes are involved),
surgery cures <10% of patients because of a combination of unresected
loco-regional disease and occult systemic disease. Chemotherapy improves
survival over surgery alone by around 5% at 5y. Several small studies have
suggested a survival advantage for preoperative chemotherapy (with or
without radiotherapy) in stage III disease. Five-year survival rates of up
to 40% have been reported, but this has been achieved in small, selected
groups of patients. Two recent randomized studies have shown significantly
improved relapse-free and overall survival for patients given cisplatin-based
treatment before and after surgery.
Overall, the data are not dissimilar from those seen with chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy in unresectable disease, and it is not clear if surgery
has a role in this situation. On the other hand, only 5–15% of patients undergoing neoadjuvant therapy have a pathological complete response at surgery,
demonstrating the importance of further local treatment if cure is the aim.
Large phase III trials of chemo-radiotherapy pre-surgery, and of chemotherapy
followed by radiotherapy or surgery, are in progress to help clarify this issue.

Chemotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer

Adjuvant chemotherapy
Thirty to 40% of patients with stage II NSCLC relapse after surgery only,
with systemic metastatic disease. A meta-analysis of adjuvant chemotherapy
trials in NSCLC showed a 5% improvement in 5-year survival for patients
treated with a cisplatin-based regimen after surgical resection. This benefit
held for patients across stages IB–IIIA. Recent results with platinum-based
doublet chemotherapy (e.g. cisplatin vinorelbine or carboplatin paclitaxel)
suggest particular benefit as adjuvant therapy after surgery for stages II–IIIA
disease.
Whilst neoadjuvant strategies offer potential downstaging of the disease,
increasing the likelihood of a complete resection and theoretical reduction
in the risk of tumour dissemination at surgery, no studies have yet shown
preoperative chemotherapy to be superior to post-operative adjuvant
therapy.

Conclusion
Chemotherapy for inoperable NSCLC now offers benefits similar to those
obtained with chemotherapy in SCLC, in terms of survival. Results of
adjuvant treatment also suggest that a survival benefit, comparable to that
observed in breast and colorectal cancers, can be achieved. Grounds for
the previous nihilistic view of NSCLC chemotherapy are diminishing, but
patients still need to be entered into clinical trials, wherever possible, in
order to build on this progress.

241

242

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Radiotherapy for non-small-cell
lung cancer
EBRT is used as the local treatment for thoracic disease in the majority of
unresectable NSCLC patients, and local tumour control rates and the duration correlate with the dose of radiotherapy given.

Radical radiotherapy
• Radical radiotherapy is indicated for:
• patients with stages I–II NSCLC who are unfit for surgery
• stages IIIA and IIIB disease that can be encompassed in a feasible
volume (determined by both the tumour volume and pulmonary
function of the patient) in patients with a good performance status.
•	Patients with inoperable NSCLC have a 20–30% chance of surviving
2 years after radical radiotherapy.
• The cost of radical treatment includes:
• frequent hospital attendances
• acute toxicities, e.g. lethargy, oesophagitis
• late toxicities, e.g. lung fibrosis.
•	Patient selection is crucial to minimize the risk of prolonged side effects
in patients destined to die of systemic disease within 12mo of diagnosis.
Dose and fractionation
• The standard international dose is 60–66Gy in 30–33 fractions
over 6wk.
•	Attempts to increase the tumour dose by giving an increased number of
fractions of size <2Gy, given over 6–7wk (hyperfractionation without
acceleration), have not shown any benefit.
•	However, the CHART regimen has shown significant benefits, compared
with conventional fractionation, and is recommended for use in the UK:
• 54Gy in 36 fractions over 12 days
• gave a 9% survival advantage at 2y, compared with 60Gy in 30
fractions, in a UK trial in stages I–III NSCLC
• costs of this treatment included inconvenience for patients and staff,
increased acute toxicity with grade 3 in 20%, but no increase in late
toxicity
• no trial has compared these regimes with shorter 4wk schedules (e.g.
55Gy in 20 fractions), which remain popular in the UK and have been
used successfully in combination with concurrent chemotherapy
(cisplatin and vinorelbine)
• CHART is logistically difficult to deliver (treatment 8 a.m., 2 p.m.,
8 p.m., including weekends) but is available in some UK centres
• CHARTWEL, a modification of this regimen to exclude weekends,
delivers 60Gy in 40 fractions over 17 days
• however, this regimen has shown no survival benefit when compared
with 66Gy in 33 daily fractions.

Radiotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer

Treatment volume
No randomized trials have examined what volume should be irradiated. The
standard, in most of the world, was previously the ° tumour and hilar and
mediastinal lymph nodes, with a 1–2cm margin. Retrospective comparisons
have not demonstrated any advantage over volumes encompassing the
tumour and radiologically involved lymph nodes only. Typically, now the
treatment volume is drawn on CT images, either fused with PET or using PET
images for guidance, limiting the treatment to the ° tumour and involved
lymph nodes only. The treatment volume is best estimated by 4D imaging.
Chemo-radiation
The Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Collaborative Group overview suggested
a 2% increase in 5y survival when cisplatin-based chemotherapy is added
to radical radiotherapy. The Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG)
88–08 study reinforces these conclusions, with a 4y survival advantage of
5% with combined therapy.
Chemotherapy delivered synchronously with radiotherapy has recently
been shown to improve survival in randomized trials, compared with
sequential treatment. A meta-analysis of six trials involving 1205 patients
with locally advanced NSCLC showed significant benefit with concomitant chemo-irradiation (3y survival of 23.8%, 5y survival of 15.1%),
compared with sequential therapy (3y survival of 18.1%, 5y survival of
10.6%). Similar benefits were reported for RTOG 9410, and concurrent
chemo-radiotherapy has become standard in the UK for good PS 0–1 with
stages II–III unresectable NSCLC.
This approach does add to the toxicity, in particular oesophagitis, and
these patients require careful review throughout the treatment, with at least
one in five requiring support with NG feeding.

Recent developments
• Long-term loco-regional control of NSCLC remains poor, even with
intensive regimens, e.g. CHART.
•	High risk of systemic relapse in patients in whom long-term control of
the loco-regional disease is achieved.
• With improved 3D planning of radiotherapy using conventional (2Gy/
fraction/day) fractionation, dose escalation with conformal therapy may
be safely achieved.
•	Hypofractionated high-dose radiotherapy (e.g. 66Gy/24 fractions)
shows promise in this setting:
• short-course treatment is less demanding on patients and treatment
facilities
• stereotactic radiotherapy, the logical extension of this approach,
shows even greater promise for small inoperable tumours (e.g.
54Gy/three fractions or 55Gy/five fractions), with local control of
>90% after 2y for stage I disease.
•	As local control of loco-regional disease improves, relapse with
metastatic disease becomes an increasing problem, in particular brain
metastases:
• trials of prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI) are under way in
patients receiving chemo-irradiation for stage III NSCLC.

243

244

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Post-operative radiotherapy
A meta-analysis of randomized trials of post-operative radiotherapy for
completely resected NSCLC has shown impaired survival following irradiation in patients with N0 and N1 disease. However, there is evidence that
radiotherapy affords an improvement in local control for patients with N2
disease. The best results have been reported with 50Gy in 25 daily fractions.

Palliative radiotherapy
For many patients with advanced NSCLC, radiation therapy is a key component in alleviating symptoms from thoracic disease, in particular:
• haemoptysis
• chest pain
• cough
• large airway obstruction or stridor
• SVCO.
Radiotherapy can also improve systemic symptoms, such as anorexia and
weight loss, and produces useful palliation for many metastatic sites, including lymph nodes, bone, brain, and soft tissue.
In the UK, MRC trials have shown equivalent survival and symptom control for patients with a poor performance status treated with one-, two-,
and ten-fraction regimes, establishing the shorter courses as the treatment
of choice for symptom control in advanced NSCLC, particularly in patients
with PS 2–3. However, these short schedules are associated with chest pain
and flu-like symptoms in up to 40% of patients. A transient reduction in peak
expiratory flow rates may occur. Most patients receiving the two-fraction
regimen suffer from at least moderate, but short-lived, oesophagitis.
Another MRC trial has shown that higher-dose palliative therapy (39Gy
in 13 daily fractions) offers a modest survival advantage for patients with
a good performance status with locally advanced NSCLC, compared with
two fractions, but at the cost of greater toxicity, in particular oesophagitis.
The selection of an appropriate radiotherapy regimen requires individual
assessment.

Outcomes of radiotherapy treatment
The key prognostic factors are the TNM staging and the patient’s performance status. When these are controlled for, treatment-related factors,
such as the chemotherapy and radiotherapy dose, can provide modest survival benefits.
Radical radiotherapy
• Stages I–II, 5y survival of 20–30%, significantly better with stereotactic
radiotherapy.
• Stage III, chemotherapy plus radiotherapy, 2y survival of 25%, 5y survival
of 15%.
Palliative radiotherapy
• Median survival in MRC trials of short-course radiotherapy of 6mo, 4mo
in patients with a poor performance status.
•	After high-dose palliative radiotherapy (39Gy/13 fractions)—median
survival of 9mo, 1y survival of 36%, 2y survival of 12%.

Small-cell lung cancer

Small-cell lung cancer
Introduction
• SCLC accounts for 15–20% of all lung cancers.
• Its treatment is quite distinct from that of NSCLC because:
• almost all SCLCs demonstrate rapid growth and early dissemination
• >90% have systemic disease at presentation
• surgery is inappropriate in the vast majority—<10% are operable
• chemotherapy is the key ° treatment and has an important impact
on survival.

Staging and prognostic factors
A much simplified staging system has been used for SCLC, as the vast
majority of patients were initially treated with chemotherapy, irrespective
of the disease extent. A two-stage system was drawn up by the Veterans
Administration Lung Group:
• limited-stage disease—tumour confined to one hemithorax and regional
lymph nodes and can be covered by tolerable radiotherapy fields
• extensive-stage disease—disease beyond these bounds.
Within these broad categories, subgroups may be defined, according to one
or more of the following prognostic factors:
• performance status
• sex (♀ have better prognosis)
• lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)
• alkaline phosphatase
• Serum sodium (Na+) (hyponatraemia carries a poor prognosis).
However, a recent review of the staging of SCLC has shown prognostic
value for the application of the current TNM classification (see M https://
cancerstaging.org to download the TNM staging), which is now recommended for all lung cancers.

245

246

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Chemotherapy for small-cell lung cancer
Prior to the introduction of systemic treatment with chemotherapy in the
1970s, the outlook for patients diagnosed with this disease was dreadful,
with a median survival of 6wk for patients with extensive disease and 3mo
for those with limited disease. Combination chemotherapy leads to an
objective response in the majority, with improved survival times, and is now
the standard ° treatment for both stages of disease.

Principles of treatment
•	Etoposide plus cisplatin or carboplatin (EP or ECarb, respectively) has
been established as the best first-line treatment (see Table 13.6).
• These regimens have demonstrated superior response rates and
tolerability, compared with older anthracycline regimens, e.g.
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine (CAV).
•	Etoposide platinum chemotherapy is compatible with concomitant
thoracic irradiation, which is now standard therapy for
non-metastatic SCLC.
• Standard chemotherapy treatment comprises 4–6 cycles of EP
or ECarb.
• No benefit from maintenance treatment or increased dose
intensification or high-dose chemotherapy.
• The disease is reassessed by CXR in each cycle and by CT scan at the
end of chemotherapy.
• During chemotherapy, the particular risks are:
• neutropenic sepsis—prophylactic broad-spectrum antibiotics, e.g.
ciprofloxacin, may reduce the risk of serious infection. Greatest risk
in patients with poor performance status
• DVT and thromboembolic disease.
• Objective response rate in 80% of all patients:
• complete responses in 30–40% of patients with limited-stage disease,
10–20% with extensive disease.
• Despite this, most patients relapse after chemotherapy only.
• Consolidation radiotherapy to the chest can reduce the risk of relapse
in some patients, particularly those with limited disease and complete
response to chemotherapy.
•	High risk of CNS relapse after chemotherapy, and this can be reduced
by PCI.

Specific problems of small-cell lung cancer
•	Poor performance status:
• unlike NSCLC, patients with PS 2–3 may benefit from chemotherapy,
if previously fit and deterioration is due to recent rapid tumour
progression.
• SVCO is relatively common with locally advanced right-sided central
tumours/mediastinal lymphadenopathy:
• initial treatment with chemotherapy is appropriate for most and
leads to prompt resolution of SVCO in the majority.
•	Paraneoplastic syndromes are not uncommon:
• e.g. SIADH, ectopic ACTH, neuromuscular syndromes.

Chemotherapy for small-cell lung cancer

•	Elderly patients:
• 25% of patients with SCLC are >70 years
• there is good evidence to support the use of ° chemotherapy in
these patients if there are no other contraindications to treatment.
• CNS disease at presentation—chemotherapy may be given as initial
treatment in fit patients or after initial cranial radiotherapy.

Second-line chemotherapy
This cancer can remain chemosensitive at relapse after ° chemotherapy
± radiotherapy. Treatment options with response rates of around 20%
include:
• CAV
• topotecan
• taxanes.
Despite the chemosensitivity of this disease, only limited progress has
been made with regard to long-term survival after relapse (see Table 13.7).
Currently, clinical trials are evaluating the potential benefits of, e.g.:
• drugs that interfere with autocrine growth factor loops and signal
transduction pathways
• angiogenesis inhibitors
• tumour vaccines.
Table 13.6 Commonly used combination regimens in SCLC
EP
ECarb
CAV

Etoposide

100mg/m2 IV days 1–3 q 3wk

Cisplatin

60–80mg/m2 IV day 1 q 3wk

Etoposide

100mg/m2 IV days1–3 q 3wk

Carboplatin

AUC 5–6 IV day 1 q 3wk

Cyclophosphamide

1000mg/m2 IV day 1 q 3wk

Doxorubicin

50mg/m2 IV day 1 q 3wk

Vincristine

2mg/m2 IV day 1 q 3wk

Table 13.7 Outcome of chemotherapy for SCLC
Stage of disease

Median survival (months)

1y survival (%)

3y survival (%)

Limited

18–24

50–70

20–30

Extensive

8–10

20

Relapseda

6

a

Limited to patients who remain fit to receive chemotherapy for relapsed disease.

247

248

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Radiotherapy for small-cell lung cancer
Background
• The ° treatment for most patients with SCLC is combination
chemotherapy:
• >90% have systemic disease (either overt or microscopic) at
presentation
• highly chemosensitive disease.
•	However, many patients with SCLC benefit from radiotherapy:
• highly radiosensitive disease
• post-chemotherapy irradiation of the thorax (TI) improves the
relapse-free and overall survival of patients with localized disease
• concomitant chemo-radiotherapy is now standard treatment for
non-metastatic SCLC, with significant improvement in survival rates
• palliative radiotherapy is an effective treatment in patients relapsing
after, resistant to, unfit for, or refusing chemotherapy.

Thoracic irradiation
• 60% of relapses after chemotherapy are in the thorax.
• TI reduces the risk of loco-regional recurrence by 50% and improves
survival by 5% at 3y in limited-stage disease.
• The optimum schedule remains uncertain (see Table 13.8).
• Conventionally, treatment is restricted to patients with limited-stage
disease who have a complete, or good partial, response to
chemotherapy.
• The target volume includes all sites of the disease at presentation.
• Mediastinal lymph nodes traditionally were irradiated, even if of normal
size, because of the high risk of microscopic involvement.
• Currently, the best results reported are with radiotherapy delivered
early, and concurrently, with chemotherapy, and directed at the ° and
involved lymph nodes only.
• Concurrent chemo-irradiation poses certain problems:
• no way of restricting treatment to chemotherapy responders
• increased toxicity, in particular, oesophagitis, which may require NG
tube feeding.
Table 13.8 Thoracic irradiation—examples of treatment regimens
Timing of radiotherapy

Dose (Gy)

Number of fractions

Fractions/day

Post-chemotherapy

50

25

1

40–45

15

1

45

30

2

50–66

25–33

1

Concomitant with cycle 1
or 2 of chemotherapy

Radiotherapy for small-cell lung cancer

Prophylactic cranial irradiation
• SCLC has a high propensity for brain metastases:
• 20% have brain involvement at diagnosis
• 80% have brain involvement at death.
• The blood–brain barrier limits access of chemotherapy to the CNS,
which is a so-called ‘sanctuary site’.
• The outlook for CNS disease is very poor:
• only 50% achieve palliation with treatment with chemotherapy or
radiotherapy
• the median survival is only 3mo.
• Because of these risks and the radiosensitivity of SCLC, prophylactic
cranial radiotherapy has been evaluated since the 1980s.
• Low-dose PCI halves the risk of brain metastases in patients in complete
remission after chemotherapy, with a 5% improvement in 3y survival.
•	PCI is recommended in patients for whom TI is appropriate, but it is
given at the end of chemotherapy in an effort to minimize CNS toxicity.
• The optimum treatment regimen is uncertain.
•	Examples include 25–30Gy/ten fractions.
• Following PCI, 30% of patients complain of somnolence 2–3mo after
treatment, which is self-limiting.

Palliative radiotherapy
•	A short course of irradiation to either the ° tumour or metastases can
provide useful symptom control, even in frail patients.
• The choice of dose and radiation schedule is similar to that used in
NSCLC, using the lowest effective dose and number of fractions.
• In most situations, a single fraction or up to five fractions of treatment
are appropriate and effective.

Recent advances in small-cell lung cancer management
•	PCI has now been shown to provide benefit in patients with both
limited- and extensive-stage disease.
• Dose escalation is being explored for TI, with 3D conformal
radiotherapy limited to the ° tumour and lymph nodes >1cm at
presentation.
• TI may also have benefits following chemotherapy for extensive-stage
disease.

249

250

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Surgery for small-cell lung cancer
Introduction
•	Historically, surgical resection has not generally been considered
for SCLC, as systemic relapse rates were high. However, the use of
neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapies has led to a change in BTS and NICE
guidelines.
• NICE guidelines (2011) suggest considering surgery in patients with
early-stage SCLC (T1–2a, N0, M0) disease.

Principles of surgery
The preoperative assessment, surgical techniques, and post-operative management of SCLC should follow the same pathways as for NSCLC.

Further reading on lung cancer
Aupérin A, Le Péchoux C, Rolland E, et al. (2010). Meta-analysis of concomitant versus sequential
radiochemotherapy in locally advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Onc 28, 2181–90.
Herbst RS, Heymach JV, Lippman SM (2008). Lung cancer. N Engl J Med 359, 1367–80.
Kwak EL, Bang YJ, Camidge DR, et al. (2010). Anaplastic lymphoma kinase inhibition in non-small cell
lung cancer. N Engl J Med 363, 1693–703.
Lim E, Baldwin D, Beckles M, et al.; British Thoracic Society; Society for Cardiothoracic Surgery in
Great Britain and Ireland (2010). Guidelines on the radical management of patients with lung
cancer. Thorax 65 Suppl 3, iii1–27.
Lynch TJ, Bell DW, Sordella R, et al. (2004). Activating mutations in the epidermal growth factor
receptor underlying responsiveness of non-small cell lung cancer to gefitinib. N Engl J Med 350,
2129–39.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (2011). Lung cancer: the diagnosis and treatment of
lung cancer. Clinical guideline 121. Available at: M http://guidance.nice.org.uk/cg121.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Collaborative Group (1995). Chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis using updated data on individual patients from 52 randomised clinical trials.
BMJ 311, 899–909.
Rueth NM, Andrade RS (2010). Is VATS lobectomy better: perioperatively, biologically and oncologically? Ann Thorac Surg 89, 2107–11.

Surgery for small-cell lung cancer

251

252

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Mesothelioma
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is an aggressive tumour arising from
the serosal lining of the chest and characterized by poor survival rates, irrespective of treatment.

Epidemiology
• Rare, 2543 cases in 2010 in the UK.
• Incidence expected to rise in the next decade and fall thereafter.
•	Peak age 60–70y.
• ♂:♀ ratio 5:1.

Aetiology
• Caused by asbestos exposure in the vast majority.
• 90% have an occupational history of exposure; high risk in, e.g. builders,
shipyard workers.
• Non-occupational exposure leads to increased risk in the partners of
these at-risk workers, e.g. washing their overalls.
•	All types of asbestos fibre are implicated.
•	Prolonged latent period after exposure, so that the clinical presentation
is often 30–40y later.
• Rarely caused by other agents:
• erionite fibres (Turkey)
• thorium dioxide.

Prevention
Recognition of the hazards of asbestos and improved protection of workers at risk should result in a falling incidence of mesothelioma after 2020.

Pathology
• Mesothelioma arises from the parietal or visceral pleura, grows diffusely
within the pleural space, commonly associated with pleural effusion, and
often leads to encasement of the lung by a solid tumour.
• The tumour invades directly into the lung and mediastinum and may
cross the diaphragm to involve the peritoneum.
• Metastatic spread to other organs, e.g. the liver in advanced disease.
• Malignant mesothelioma has three distinct histological subtypes:
• epithelioid (around 50%)
• sarcomatous
• mixed.
• Malignant tumours may be localized or diffuse and are more commonly
associated with asbestos exposure and symptoms such as chest pain and
dyspnoea.
• Differentiation from other intrathoracic malignancies, such as pulmonary
adenocarcinoma or metastatic pleural disease, requires the assistance of
an experienced pathologist.
• ° mesothelioma of the peritoneum is rare, associated with heavy
exposure and ingestion of asbestos.

Mesothelioma

Clinical presentation
• Late presentation is common, with only an insidious development of the
classic symptoms:
• non-pleuritic chest pain
• dyspnoea
• systemic symptoms of fatigue, weight loss, sweating, and fever.
•	Physical examination frequently demonstrates finger clubbing and signs
of pleural effusion or solid pleural tumour. Signs of advanced disease
may include:
• a palpable chest wall mass
• hoarse voice, vocal cord palsy
• SVCO
•	Horner’s syndrome
• ascites due to extension of the tumour into the peritoneum.
Occasionally, early disease, which is asymptomatic, is picked up on CXR
for another cause.

Investigations
• Laboratory results in mesothelioma are usually unremarkable.
• No serological tumour marker reproducibly identified.
• Radiological appearances are often non-specific:
• pleural effusion/thickening on CXR
• 20% have associated pulmonary fibrosis (asbestosis)
• CT scan demonstrates the extent of pleural mass and effusion, and
encasement of the lung
• MRI provides superior definition of the tissue planes, e.g. in
mediastinal or transdiaphragmatic extension.
•	Histological diagnosis should be obtained in the majority of cases, using
the least invasive technique:
• ultrasound- or CT-guided biopsy
• thoracoscopy and biopsy (80% positive)
• each of these procedures carries a small risk of implantation of the
tumour in the chest wall.

Staging
The TNM classification (see M https://cancerstaging.org to download the
TNM staging) is not commonly used, but staging is vital if patients are considered for surgery. The Brigham staging system (see Table 13.9) provides
an alternative straightforward method, based on key disease characteristics,
that stratifies survival.
Accurate preoperative pathological staging is best achieved by thoracoscopy for pleural evaluation, mediastinoscopy for mediastinal nodal involvement, and laparoscopy to rule out peritoneal seeding or diaphragmatic
involvement, when indicated.

Management
Without treatment, the average patient with MPM survives <1y from the
time of diagnosis. Patient selection is crucial, and all patients should be discussed at a thoracic MDT meeting.

253

254

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Table 13.9 Brigham staging system for MPM
Stage

Description

I

Disease completely resected within the capsule of the parietal pleura
without adenopathy; ipsilateral pleura, lung, pericardium, diaphragm,
or chest wall disease limited to previous biopsy sites

II

All of stage I, with positive resection margins and/or intrapleural
adenopathy

III

Local extension of disease into the chest wall or mediastinum, heart,
or through the diaphragm into the peritoneum; or with extra-pleural
lymph node involvement

IV

Distant metastatic disease

Surgery
• Resection may be considered for patients with stage I disease, who are
medically fit.
•	Patients with stage II disease and selected individuals with stage III
mesothelioma may be suitable for resection, as part of a multi-modality
therapy regimen if clear margins can be obtained.
• It has been suggested that only patients with epithelioid-type
mesothelioma be offered resection due to poor outcome of the
sarcomatoid and mixed varieties.
• For those suitable for resection, radical surgery with extra-pleural
pneumonectomy (EPP) is the standard procedure.
• Lung-sparing cytoreductive surgery may be an alternate option, but
long-term data are currently lacking.
•	Hyperthermic intraoperative pleural cisplatin may improve the interval
to recurrence and survival.
•	Parietal peritonectomy is now being considered for intraperitoneal
disease, although the benefit is uncertain.
Pleurodesis
Talc pleurodesis is effective in many patients in delaying the reaccumulation
of the pleural effusion.
Radiotherapy
• Short-course palliative radiotherapy for painful chest disease/masses.
Chemotherapy
• Objective responses in 10–20% of patients with advanced disease
treated with, e.g. cisplatin, carboplatin, ifosfamide, mitomycin.
• Improved results are reported with the anti-folate pemetrexed, in
combination with cisplatin or carboplatin (response rate of 20–40%),
with a median survival of 12mo.
Palliative care
Symptom control is often difficult, in particular, pain and dyspnoea, and
early involvement of specialist palliative care services may be beneficial.

Mesothelioma

Compensation and notification
Patients may be entitled to claim compensation in two ways:
• a claim for Industrial Injuries Disablement Benefit from the Department
of Social Security (via Benefits Agency)
• a common law claim for damages from the firm/firms where exposure
to asbestos occurred.
All deaths of patients with mesothelioma must be notified to the coroner
(procurator fiscal in Scotland).

Treatment outcome
• The overall median survival is poor—8–14mo.
• Better prognosis with epithelioid pathology.
• Single-centre results from Boston US in carefully selected patients
undergoing radical surgery, followed by chemotherapy and radiotherapy,
are better, particularly in patients in whom early disease is excised with
clear pathological margins:
• median survival of 17mo
• 2y survival of 36%
• 5y survival of 14%.

Further reading
British Thoracic Society Standards of Care Committee (2007). BTS statement on malignant mesothelioma in the UK, 2007. Thorax 62 Suppl 2, ii1–ii19.
Pistolesi M, Rusthoven J (2004). Malignant pleural mesothelioma. Chest 126, 1318–20.
Robinson BWS, Musk AW, Lake RA (2005). Malignant mesothelioma. Lancet 336, 379–408.
Sugarbaker DJ, Flores RM, Jaklitsch MT, et al. (1999). Resection margins, extrapleural nodal status and
cell type determine postoperative long-term survival in trimodality therapy of malignant pleural
mesothelioma: results in 183 patients. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 117, 54–63.
Sugarbaker DJ, Gill RR, Yeap BY, et al. (2013). Hyperthermic intraoperative pleural cisplatin chemotherapy extends interval to recurrence and survival among low-risk patients with malignant pleural
mesothelioma undergoing surgical macroscopic complete resection. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 145,
955–63.
Yan TD, Brun EA, Cerruto CA, Haveric N, Chang D, Sugarbaker PH (2007). Prognostic indicators
for patients undergoing cytoreductive surgery and perioperative intraperitoneal chemotherapy
for diffuse malignant peritoneal mesothelioma. Ann Surg Oncol 14, 41–9.

255

256

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Thymic tumours
Tumours derived from the thymus (thymomas) comprise 720% of all mediastinal tumours and are the commonest tumour in the anterior mediastinum (less common pathologies include lymphoma and teratoma).

Epidemiology
Thymomas occur at any age but are rare before the age of 20 and peak
between 40 and 60y, with similar frequency in both sexes. The incidence
varies somewhat in different countries, being more frequent in the Far East.
The average in Europe is around 0.5 new cases per year per 100 000.

Aetiology
The cause is unknown.

Pathology
Most thymomas are slow-growing ‘low-grade’ malignant tumours. It is
believed that they derive from epithelial elements, but the tumours retain
the capacity for the production of T-cells. The T-cells are generally of normal phenotype.
According to the relative abundance of epithelial and lymphocytic cells,
histological subgroups have been described:
• epithelial
• lymphocytic
• mixed.
These cellular characteristics have no clear influence on the prognosis. In
contrast, the gross appearance of the resected tumour is related to the
clinical prognosis. The presence or absence of an intact capsule is of key
importance, and local invasion remains the most consistent factor in predicting outcome.
The following classification is of practical benefit:
• encapsulated thymoma (50%)—benign cytology and biological
behaviour
• invasive thymoma (40%)—benign cytology, but capable of local invasion
and, rarely, distant metastasis
• thymic carcinoma (10%)—demonstrates cytological and biological
features of cancer.
However, recurrent disease can occur after complete excision of a histologically bland thymoma. Metastatic spread can involve the pleura, lung, lymph
nodes, and other viscera.

Clinical presentation
• 30% diagnosed with an asymptomatic mediastinal mass.
• 40% have local symptoms, e.g. chest pain, cough, dyspnoea, SVCO.
• 30% have paraneoplastic syndromes, most associated with an
immunological phenomenon.

Thymic tumours

• Myasthenia gravis is the commonest paraneoplastic effect; occurs in
15–25% of patients with thymoma:
• autoantibodies target acetylcholine receptor
• 10–25% of patients with myasthenia have a thymoma.
• Red cell aplasia occurs in 5% of thymomas:
• in 30%, low platelets or low white cell count (WCC) also
• 30–50% of patients with red cell aplasia have a thymoma.
•	Hypogammaglobulinaemia occurs in 5–10% of thymomas.

Investigations
• Imaging by CT or MRI is essential to stage and plan therapy.
• No specific tumour markers.
• CT-guided core biopsy preferred to FNA cytology.

Management and staging
Surgery
• 90% present with localized disease, for which surgery is the preferred
treatment.
• Thymectomy is performed through a median sternotomy, although
bilateral anterolateral thoracotomy, with transverse sternotomy (clam
shell approach), is better for advanced tumours.
• Video-assisted thoracoscopic approaches are increasingly used, but
long-term survival/recurrence data are lacking.
• Modern surgical techniques allow complete resection of invasive
thymomas, including lung resection, SVC removal, and reconstruction,
where applicable.
• Complete resection provides long-term survival in excess of 90% for
stages I and II disease.
• Incomplete resection provides less survival benefit in the order of
30–50%.
• No adjuvant therapy is indicated for stage I disease, but radiotherapy
may be of benefit in patients with stages II/III disease who have positive
margins.
Staging (Masaoka)
• Staging of the disease is based on the surgical findings and radiology:
• I—tumour confined within the intact capsule, with no microscopic
invasion
• II—macroscopic growth into the mediastinal fat tissue or pleura, or
microscopic capsular invasion
• III—macroscopic invasive growth into the surrounding organs,
pericardium, great vessels, or lung
• IV—disseminated disease
• IVa—pleural or pericardial metastasis
• IVb—lymph node or blood-borne metastasis.
Radiotherapy
•	Post-operative radiotherapy is recommended for stages II and III, where
excision has been incomplete, and for local recurrence of thymoma:
• 50–66Gy in 25–33 fractions.

257

258

Chapter 13

Thoracic malignancies

Chemotherapy
• Malignant thymoma is chemosensitive, with objective response rates in
advanced disease of 40–60%.
• Most regimens include an anthracycline and cisplatin, e.g. CAP
(cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and cisplatin).
• Indications for chemotherapy include:
• metastatic disease
• bulky recurrent disease
• recurrence post-radiotherapy
• preoperative treatment of locally advanced disease.

Treatment outcomes
• OS rates are good (see Table 13.10).
•	Patients with autoimmune disorders, such as myasthenia, are diagnosed
with relatively small tumours.
•	However, thymectomy leads to remission in paraneoplastic syndromes
in only 30–50%.
•	Patients with persistent symptoms, e.g. myasthenia, require
ongoing medical treatment with anti-cholinesterases and/or
immunosuppressants.
Table 13.10 Treatment outcomes for thymoma
Stage of disease

Recurrence rate (%)

10y survival (%)

I

4

88

II

14

70

III

26

57

IV

46

38

Further reading
Lee HS, Kim ST, Lee J (2007). A single institutional experience of thymic epithelial tumours over
11 years: clinical features and outcome and implications for future management. Br J Cancer
97, 22–8.
Tomaszek S, Wigle DA, Keshavjee S, Fischer S (2009). Thymomas: review of current clinical practice.
Ann Thorac Surg 87, 1973–80.

SURGERY FOR PULMONARY METASTATIC DISEASE

Surgery for pulmonary metastatic
disease (metastasectomy)
Resection of isolated pulmonary metastases has been in practice for sarcomas of soft tissue and bone for some 40y, but it is now increasingly
requested for other pathologies such as colorectal cancer. Perhaps surprisingly, there have been no clinical trials to evaluate the benefits of such an
approach. From the considerable historical data available, several principles
are clear:
• the best results are achieved after resection of solitary metastasis
following a long DFS
• for bone and soft tissue sarcoma, 5y survival rates of 34% and 25%,
respectively, are reported after the first metastasectomy
• all cases should be discussed at the relevant MDT meeting, and it is
mandatory to confirm that the ° tumour is currently controlled and the
pulmonary metastatic disease can be feasibly completely resected
• preoperative staging usually comprises CT of the chest and imaging of
the ° site and other potential metastatic sites, usually by FDG-PET
• wedge resection is the most frequently performed procedure, either
open or by videothoracoscopy
• pathologies currently considered for such procedures include
metastases from colorectal cancer, soft tissue and bone sarcomas, renal
cancer, germ cell malignancy, melanoma, and breast, head and neck,
lung, and gynaecological cancers
• multiple and bilateral metastatic deposits may be resected, but the
anticipated benefit of surgery declines, particularly when surgery
requires to be repeated for recurrent metastatic disease after a short
interval
•	Patients for whom surgery is felt to be unsafe because of comorbidities
or previous therapy, may be considered for nonsurgical radical therapy
with either stereotactic radiotherapy or RFA.

Further reading
Treasure T, Fiorentino F, Scarci M, Moller H, Utley M (2012). Pulmonary metastasectomy for sarcoma: a systematic review of reported outcomes in the context of Thames Cancer Registry data.
BMJ Open 2, e001736.

259

Chapter 14

Breast cancer
Introduction 262
Epidemiology 264
Genetics of breast cancer 266
Pathology 270
Breast cancer screening 274
Presentation and staging 278
Management of non-invasive (in situ) breast cancer 280
Management of early invasive breast cancer 282
Loco-regional radiotherapy 285
Adjuvant systemic therapy 286
Management of locally advanced breast cancer 290
Management of metastatic breast cancer 292
Management of male breast cancer 296
Prognosis 297

261

262

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Introduction
Much effort has been invested in this, the most common solid tumour
occurring in women. The study of breast cancer has rewarded us with lessons in the application of many aspects of oncology, including:
• population screening
• medical genetics
• organ conservation and reconstruction
• adjuvant therapy
• meta-analyses
• clinical guidelines.
The benefits of this industry are now visible, with a significant fall in breast
cancer deaths over the last 20y.

Introduction

263

264

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Epidemiology
Key facts about breast cancer
•	The commonest ♀ cancer in Europe and the US.
• 31% of all malignancies in women in the UK.
•	The incidence is increasing by 1% per year.
•	The rate of increase is increasing, especially in low-risk populations.
•	The lifetime risk in the UK is 1 in 8 women.
•	The risk of breast cancer correlates with the income per capita.
• In the UK, 49 961 new breast cancers diagnosed in 2010.
• Currently, 11 600 breast cancer deaths per year.
• Since the 1980s, UK breast cancer mortality has fallen by about 20%, in
response to improvements in diagnosis and treatment.
• ♂ breast cancer is rare—397 cases in 2010 in the UK.

Aetiology
Several risk factors have been identified by epidemiological studies.
Age
• Breast cancer is very rare before the age of 20y and rare below 30y.
•	The incidence of breast cancer doubles every 10y until the menopause.
• After 50y, the rate of increase slows and in some countries plateaus.
Geography
• 7-fold variation in the incidence between high- and low-risk countries.
• Low rates in the Far East.
• Migrants from low-incidence countries assume the risk in the host
country within two generations.
Age at menarche and menopause
• Early menarche and late menopause increase the risk.
•	Ovarian ablation before 35y reduces the risk of breast cancer by 60%.
• Menopause after the age of 55y doubles the risk.
Age at first pregnancy
•	Nulliparity and late age at first pregnancy increase the risk.
• A woman whose first pregnancy is at 30y has double the risk of breast
cancer, compared with first pregnancy at <20y.
Family history
• Genetic predisposition accounts for around 10% of ♀ breast cancers,
and 20% of ♂.
Exogenous oestrogens
•	Use of oral contraceptives for >4y before first pregnancy increases the
risk of pre-menopausal breast cancer.
•	The use of unopposed oestrogens in HRT for 10–15y is associated with
an increase in breast cancer.
• Combined HRT preparations also increase the risk, but the magnitude
of the effect is uncertain.
• Prenatal exposure to diethylstilboestrol increases the risk in women
over 40y of age.

Epidemiology

Diet
• Associations have been shown with high dietary fat intake, obesity, and
alcohol consumption.
Benign breast disease
• Previous breast surgery for severe atypical epithelial hyperplasia is
associated with a 4-fold increase in risk.
Radiation
• Exposure to ionizing radiation at an early age, e.g. treatment of
Hodgkin’s disease.
• Mammographic screening is associated with a decrease in breast
cancer deaths, but the effects of screening younger women (<50y) are
uncertain.
Male breast cancer
• Peak incidence 10y later than in women.
• It may occur in association with Klinefelter’s syndrome.

265

266

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Genetics of breast cancer
• 75% of ♀ breast cancer is due to the inheritance of a mutated copy of
either BRCA1 or BRCA2.
• Women who inherit a mutated copy of either gene have an elevated
lifetime risk of breast cancer—45–65% develop breast cancer by the
age of 70y.
• Particular risk of pre-menopausal breast cancer, often before the age
of 40y.
• Associated risk of ovarian cancer (greater with BRCA1).
• ♂ carriers are at risk of prostate cancer and, for BRCA2 carriers, breast
cancer.
• Some ethnic groups are at particular risk for carriage of these mutations
(estimated 2% of US Ashkenazi Jews).
•	Other genes contribute less often to familial breast cancer:
• hypothesized that ataxia–telangiectasia heterozygotes are at risk, but
this is as yet unproven
• risk associated with mutation in PTEN (Cowden disease), MSH1 or
MSH2 (HNPCC), and p53 (Li–Fraumeni syndrome).
•	The recent findings of the large-scale Collaborative Oncological
Gene-environment Study (COGS) have identified 41 new loci associated
with an overall risk of breast cancer, bringing the total of such loci to 76
at present.
• It is likely that these findings will lead to an improved assessment of
the risk of breast cancer in individual women through the estimation
of a polygenic risk score and should also assist in the management of
breast cancers by providing further genetic information to assist in the
subclassification of this heterogeneous disease.
The management of hereditary breast cancer is essentially that of
non-hereditary disease. Less clear is how to manage asymptomatic ♀
members of these families and the contralateral breast of the index cases.
Published guidelines define groups of women at moderate and high risk,
recommending referral to medical genetic clinics for the latter group for
counselling, advice on risks, consideration of testing for mutations of BRCA1
and BRCA2, and referral for appropriate further management. Women at
moderate risk are offered annual mammography and review in a breast
clinic between ages 40 and 50y.
Currently, the following options are open to women at moderate and
high risk.

Prophylactic surgery
• Bilateral s/c mastectomy (usually with immediate reconstruction)
reduces the incidence of breast cancer in these women, but its impact
on survival is uncertain. This reduces the risk of breast cancer by 95%
(not 100%).
• May be offered in conjunction with prophylactic oophorectomy.

Screening
• MRI has been shown to be superior to mammography in women under
50y at high risk of breast cancer because of their family history.

Genetics of breast cancer

• Annual MRI of both breasts recommended for:
• carriers of mutated BRCA1 or BRCA2 aged 30–50y
• carriers of mutated p53 aged >20y
• women with a 10y risk of breast cancer of >8% from age 30–39y
• women with a 10y risk of breast cancer of >20% from age 40–49y.
• Annual mammography of both breasts is also recommended for
carriers of mutated BRCA1 or BRCA2 or p53 aged 40–49y.

Breast cancer prevention trials
• Four clinical trials of tamoxifen have demonstrated that this drug
reduces the incidence of ER-positive breast cancer by about 50%.
•	NICE guidance on familial breast cancer in 2013 includes the use of
tamoxifen in the prevention of ER-positive breast cancer.

Risk assessment for women with a family history of breast
cancer (examples)
Women at population risk—<3% develop breast cancer aged 40–50y,
<17% lifetime risk:
• only one first- or second-degree relative with breast cancer diagnosed
aged <40y, and
• no family history of bilateral breast cancer, ovarian cancer, ♂ breast
cancer.
Women at moderate risk—3–8% develop breast cancer aged 40–50y,
17–30% lifetime risk:
• only one first-degree relative with breast cancer diagnosed <40y, or
• one first-degree relative with ♂ breast cancer, or
• one first-degree relative with bilateral breast cancer diagnosed
<50y, or
• two first-degree relatives with breast cancer at any age, or
• one first- or second-degree relative with breast cancer at any age and
one first- or second-degree relative with ovarian cancer, or
• three first- or second-degree relatives with breast cancer at any age.
Women at high risk—>8% develop breast cancer aged 40–50y, 30%
lifetime risk:
• two first-degree relatives with breast cancer diagnosed aged <50y, or
• three first- or second-degree relatives with breast cancer aged
<60y, or
• four first- or second-degree relatives with breast cancer at any age, or
• one relative with ovarian cancer and a first- or second-degree relative
on the same side with breast cancer aged <50y, or
• two relatives with ovarian cancer, or
• one relative with bilateral breast cancer aged <50y.

267

268

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Further reading
Bahcall OG (2013). iCOGS collection provides a collaborative model. Nat Genet 45, 343.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (2013). Familial breast cancer: classification and
care of people at risk of familial breast cancer and management of breast cancer and related risks
in people with a family history of breast cancer. Clinical guideline 164. London: NICE. Available
at: M http://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/cg164.
Ore S (2008). Who should have breast magnetic resonance imaging evaluation? J Clin Oncol 26,
703–11.
Turner NC, Jones AL (2008). Management of breast cancer–part I. BMJ 337, a421.
Turner NC, Jones AL (2008). Management of breast cancer—part II. BMJ 337, a540.

Genetics of breast cancer

269

270

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Pathology
• Breast cancer is commoner in the left breast.
• Around 50% arise in the upper outer quadrant.
•	The commonest pathology is ductal carcinoma.
• See Table 14.1 for histological types.

Ductal carcinoma in situ
• 90% of breast carcinomas arise in the ducts of the breast.
• Begins as an atypical proliferation of the ductal epithelium that
eventually fills and plugs the ducts with neoplastic cells.
• As long as the tumour remains within the confines of the ductal
basement membrane, it is classified as ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS).
• Localized DCIS is impalpable but often visible on mammography as an
area of microcalcification; the vast majority of DCIS therefore presents
through the breast screening programme.
•	Not all DCIS will inevitably progress, but the probability of development
of invasive cancer is estimated at 30–50%.
• Currently, trials are being set up to try to give a better understanding
to the natural history of DCIS and to establish biomarkers for disease
progression.

Lobular carcinoma in situ
•	These pre-invasive lesions carry a risk not only of ipsilateral invasive
lobular carcinoma, but also of contralateral breast cancer.
•	Typically are neither palpable nor contain microcalcification.

Invasive ductal carcinoma
•	This accounts for 75% of breast cancers.
•	The malignant cells are associated with a fibrous stroma that can be
dense (scirrhous carcinoma).
•	The tumour invades through the breast tissue into the lymphatics and
vascular spaces, to gain access to the regional nodes (axillary and, less
often, internal mammary) and systemic circulation.
• Systemic spread can involve almost any organ, but most commonly the
bone, lung or pleura, liver, skin, and CNS.
•	The histological grade (I–III) of the tumour is assessed from three
features and predicts the tumour behaviour. The features are:
• tubule formation
• nuclear pleomorphism
• mitotic frequency.
• ER and PR status is commonly assessed by immunocytochemistry.
•	Other biological markers (e.g. HER2) are of value both as a predictor of
prognosis and as a guide to therapy, assessed by immunocytochemistry
or FISH.
Oestrogen receptor-positive breast cancer
• 60–70% of breast cancers express the nuclear ER.
•	This dependence on natural sex hormones to control tumour growth
conveys a better prognosis, compared with ER-negative tumours
which have a higher risk of spread to lymph nodes and distant sites at
presentation.

Pathology

HER2-positive breast cancer
• Amplification of the growth factor receptor gene HER2 occurs in
25–30% of breast cancers.
• Associated with aggressive behaviour, high risk of lymph node
involvement, and haematogenous spread.
Triple negative breast cancer
•	These tumours do not express ER, PR, or HER2.
• Account for 15% of breast cancers.
• Commoner in pre-menopausal women and in association with BRCA1.
• Most express EGFR.
• Paradoxical high risk of early relapse, but relative sensitivity to
chemotherapy.

Ductal carcinoma of special type
A number of pathological variants are identified, with relatively good prognosis, namely medullary carcinoma, tubular carcinoma, and mucinous carcinoma. Paget’s disease of the breast is ductal carcinoma of the ducts with
involvement of the skin of the nipple and areola. All have an underlying
invasive ductal carcinoma.

Invasive lobular carcinoma
Lobular carcinomas account for 5–10% of breast cancers. About 20%
develop contralateral breast cancer. Unusual patterns of spread are recognized, including the propensity for spread to the peritoneum, meninges,
ovaries, and uterus.
Table 14.1 Histological types of breast malignancy
• Invasive ductal carcinoma:
• no special type
• combined with other type
• medullary carcinoma
• mucinous carcinoma
• Paget’s disease.
• Invasive lobular carcinoma.
• Mixed lobular and ductal carcinoma.
• Sarcoma (various).
• Lymphoma.
• Metastases (e.g. breast cancer, SCLC).

271

272

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Gene expression profiling
Three gene expression-based prognostic cancer tests are licensed for the
prediction of prognosis and treatment benefit for women with early-stage
breast cancer. Two use real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain
reaction (RT-PCR) to examine gene profiles of 21 and 70 genes; the third
uses DNA microarray technology to evaluate two genes. All require pathological review of specimens to check the tumour content and evaluate the
RNA quality. Such approaches should pave the way to the individualization
of therapy for women with breast cancer, but, at present, further clinical
trials are ongoing to clarify how best such assays be integrated into standard
clinical practice.

Pathology

273

274

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Breast cancer screening
•	There have been at least seven RCTs of mammographic screening over
the last 40y.
•	The Health Insurance Plan (HIP) study of New York and the Two
Counties Study from Sweden both showed a 30% reduction in mortality
in the >50-year-old age group who were screened with mammography.
• A meta-analysis of all the published trials confirms a significant benefit
for the over 50s.
•	None of the trials published so far have shown a mortality benefit for
women under the age of 50y.
•	Two meta-analyses report a 14%, but non-significant, reduction in
mortality in younger women.
• A recent review of the UK breast screening programme has clarified
concerns with regards to the number of patients treated for breast
cancer which would not have caused health problems.
• It is estimated that, for every 235 women invited for screening, one
breast cancer death will be prevented, representing 43 breast cancer
deaths prevented per 10 000 women aged 50 invited to screening for
the next 20y.
• Against this, 19% of breast cancers diagnosed in women invited for
screening would not have caused problems if left undiagnosed and
untreated (129 per 10 000 women).
• It is generally agreed that the benefits of screening outweigh the harms.

Imaging modality
•	The aim of screening for breast cancer is to identify pre-invasive disease
or invasive disease before dissemination (through the lymphatics or
blood).
•	No evidence that simple breast self-examination is an effective means of
screening for breast cancer.
• X-ray mammography is the most sensitive technique for detecting
breast cancer and is also the most specific.
• Mammography is most sensitive, once involution of the breast tissue has
occurred (i.e. post-menopausal women).
• Mammography is less sensitive in women with dense breasts—i.e. those
with predominantly glandular tissue or residual stromal tissue.
• Breast ultrasound, useful for assessment of focal abnormalities, is also
useful in detecting impalpable lesions.
•	Ultrasound examination of axillary lymph nodes may reveal abnormal
nodes in the presence of suspected breast cancer.
•	Telediaphanography (infrared scanning of the breast tissue) has both
low sensitivity and low specificity for malignancy and is not used
routinely.
• MRI with dynamic IV contrast is a very sensitive technique, but variable
specificity has been reported. It has a role in young women with a family
history of breast cancer.

Breast cancer screening

Mammographic technique
•	The breast is compressed to flatten the breast tissue to reduce
movement, overlapping shadows, and radiation dose.
•	The uniform thickness of the tissue improves the image quality and
contrast.
• Low-energy radiation is passed through the breast, resulting in a
high-contrast image.
•	The image is digitally recorded, with display on a high-resolution
computer screen.
•	Two views of each breast are performed—one in the lateral oblique
position diagonally across the chest, the other in the cranio-caudal
position.
• Compression of breast tissue lasts only a few seconds, but 7% of
women find the examination very painful, and a large proportion find it
uncomfortable.

Radiation dose
• Low radiation dose (72mGy per examination).
•	The radiation risk is 1–2 excess cancers per million women screened
after a latent period of 10y in the post-menopausal age group but is
higher in women under 30y.
•	Dose to the breast 75 times that of a CXR.

Organization of the UK breast screening programme
In the UK, women aged 50–70y are invited, through their GP, to attend
either a breast screening centre or a mobile van for mammography every
3y. Women aged over 70y are not routinely called for screening but are
encouraged to make their own appointments at breast screening units
every 3y.
Currently, the age group for screening is being extended to 47–73y
between 2010 and 2016 in England.
The mammograms are read by a consultant radiologist (double reading is now the usual practice). If an abnormality is seen that is thought to
be suspicious, the woman is recalled to an assessment clinic at the breast
screening centre. A clinical examination is performed at the recall visit, with
further X-rays, an ultrasound examination, and a core biopsy, if appropriate. Women diagnosed with cancer are referred promptly to a breast surgeon who will arrange appropriate treatment.
• An average of 77% of women accept the invitation to be screened.
• 4% of women are recalled for further tests.
• 7.8 cancers per 1000 women screened are found.
• A rigorous quality control system monitors the performance in all breast
screening centres annually.

275

276

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Interval cancers
These are cancers that occur in the interval between two screening episodes. They fall into five categories:
• true interval cancer—appears in the 3y interval and was not present on
the previous screening mammogram
• false negative—the lesion was present on the previous screening
mammogram
• technical—cancer was not on the film due to its position
• mammographically occult—cancer is not visualized on either the
screening mammogram or at the time of diagnosis
• unclassifiable—no mammogram taken at the time of diagnosis.
There are an estimated 5.5 interval cancers per 10 000 women screened
in the first year after screening, 11.3 in the second, and 12.2 in the third.
• Many European countries offer screening every 2y.

Screening for high-risk groups
• Women at moderate to high risk of breast cancer because of their
family history should be offered annual breast MRI between ages 40
and 50y.

Features of screen-detected breast cancer
The reduction in breast cancer deaths resulting from mammographic
screening is attributed to:
• the diagnosis and effective treatment of asymptomatic pre-invasive
disease (DCIS)
• the diagnosis and effective treatment of early invasive breast cancer,
which would otherwise not present until systemic spread had occurred.
A number of studies have found good evidence to support this,
including the following observations:
• 10–20% of screen-detected lesions are non-invasive
• >30% of screen-detected invasive cancers are <10mm
• <20% are grade 3
• 70–80% node-negative.

Further reading
Independent UK Panel on Breast Cancer Screening (2012). The benefits and harms of breast cancer
screening: an independent review. Lancet 380, 1778–86.
Moss SM, Cuckle H, Evans A, Johns L, Waller M, Bobrow L; Trial Management Group (2006).
Effect of mammographic screening from age 40 years on breast cancer mortality at 10 years’
follow-up: a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 368, 2053–60.
NHS Breast Screening Programme. Available at: M http://www.cancerscreening.nhs.uk/breastscreen/index.html (accessed November 2012).
Nyström L, Andersson I, Bjurstam N, Frisell J, Nordenskjöld B, Rutqvist LE (2002). Long-term effects
of mammography screening: updated overview of the Swedish randomised trials. Lancet 359,
909–19.
Van Goethem M, Tjalma W, Schelfont K (2006). Magnetic resonance imaging in breast cancer. Eur J
Surg Oncol 32, 901–10.

Breast cancer screening

277

278

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Presentation and staging
The most common presentations of breast cancer include the following
(see Table 14.2):
• abnormal screening mammogram:
• now accounts for around 25% of cases
• microcalcification, mass lesion, distortion
• breast lump or thickening
• axillary tumour
• breast skin changes—dimpling, puckering, erythema
• nipple changes—inversion, discharge, rash (Paget’s disease)
• persistent breast tenderness or pain
• infrequently, symptoms from metastatic disease, e.g. bone pain, spinal
cord compression
• worrying symptoms are highlighted by the GP’s ‘red flag’ referral letter
(breast lump, ulceration or retraction of the skin, eczema or retraction
of the nipple) and should be seen within 2wk.

Investigations
The diagnosis of breast cancer is made by ‘triple assessment’:
• full clinical examination:
• including calliper measurement of any lump in either breast, and
clinical assessment of the tumour, including fixity to the adjacent skin
and pectoral muscle
• lymphadenopathy, in particular the axillae and SCF (although clinical
assessment of the axillary lymph nodes correlates poorly with
the pathological spread to the nodes). If nodes are palpable, FNA
cytology should be done with ultrasound guidance
• bilateral mammography, usually combined with ultrasound examination
of the breast lesion and axilla
• core biopsy of suspicious breast lesions:
• impalpable lesions will require stereotactic or ultrasound-guided
FNA or biopsy
• core biopsy is the preferred diagnostic test, avoiding the risk of false
positive cytology and allowing the differentiation between CIS and
invasive cancer in the majority. Core biopsy can also provide valuable
prognostic information, such as the tumour grade and receptor
status, which may be valuable in planning treatment.
This combined approach to assessment has >90% sensitivity and specificity.
• In a few cases where there is still uncertainty, excision biopsy of the
breast lesion may be required. This is now unusual.
• Preoperative assessment of the axilla by ultrasound-guided FNA
cytology of enlarged or abnormal lymph nodes is recommended, to
allow appropriate axillary treatment.
•	No serum tumour markers have been found to be useful.
• In the absence of locally advanced disease (see Table 14.2) or
symptoms/signs of metastatic disease, routine radiological staging
investigations, such as CXR, bone scan, or CT scan, have not been
found to be of benefit.

Presentation and staging

TNM staging system
Changes have been made in the staging system to take account of improvements in the pathological assessment of this disease. Pathological assessment of the extent of disease may differ considerably from clinical staging.
See M https://cancerstaging.org to download the TNM staging.
Table 14.2 Indications for referral to breast clinic
• Screen-detected breast cancer.
• Breast lump:
• any new discrete lump
• new lump in pre-existing nodularity
• asymmetrical nodularity persisting after menstruation
• abscess/inflammation which does not settle after one course of
antibiotics
• persistent or recurrent cyst.
• Pain:
• associated with a lump
• intractable pain that interferes with the patient’s life and fails to respond
to simple measures (well-supporting bra, simple analgesics, abstention
from caffeine, evening primrose oil)
• unilateral persistent pain in post-menopausal women.
• Nipple discharge:
• in any woman aged >50y
• in younger women if bloodstained, persistent single duct, or bilateral,
sufficient to stain clothes.
• Nipple retraction, distortion, or eczema.
• Change in breast contour.

279

280

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Management of non-invasive (in situ)
breast cancer
DCIS and lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) are rarely symptomatic, although
extensive pre-invasive disease may present with a mass or thickening of
breast tissue. The former is often diagnosed during screening.

Management options
Simple mastectomy
• In situ breast cancer was rarely diagnosed before the advent of
mammographic screening.
•	The standard treatment until the 1980s was mastectomy.
• Following mastectomy, relapse rates are very low (2–3%).
• Loco-regional recurrence and metastatic disease are attributed to
undiagnosed micro-invasive cancer.
• Axillary surgery/staging is not routinely indicated because of the low
risk of positive nodes. If the DCIS is multifocal and widespread, sentinel
lymph node biopsy (SLNB) should be offered.
• Mastectomy remains the standard treatment for large in situ cancers and
for multifocal disease (with breast reconstruction, if desired).
Wide excision alone
• With the increased diagnosis of small localized non-invasive cancers by
mammographic screening, breast-conserving surgery has been adopted
for the majority. Because the lesion is usually screen-detected and
impalpable, the lesion (often microcalcification) is localized first by the
radiologist. A specimen X-ray is essential to ensure complete excision of
the abnormality.
• Cavity wall shavings to exclude residual disease are increasingly routine.
•	However, 20–30% develop local recurrence within 5y.
•	The highest risk of recurrence is with high-grade DCIS and excision
margin involved or <1mm clear—excision margin of at least 2mm is
now recommended.
•	Half of the recurrences are non-invasive, but the rest contains invasive
cancer.
Wide excision and post-operative radiotherapy
•	Three large randomized studies have now confirmed the benefit of
radiotherapy in this setting.
•	The whole breast is irradiated.
•	Risk of recurrence of <10% at 5y.
•	The majority of patients are treated with radiotherapy following
breast-conserving surgery for DCIS, with the exception of patients with
small foci of low-grade DCIS excised with wide resection margins.
Adjuvant hormone therapy
•	Results of two large clinical trials are contradictory.
•	Tamoxifen 20mg daily, taken for 5y, reduces the frequency of recurrence
of DCIS by about 30%, but there is uncertainty with regard to the
recurrence of invasive cancer.
• Clinical trials with aromatase inhibitors are ongoing.

MANAGEMENT OF NON-INVASIVE (IN SITU) BREAST CANCER

Most breast specialists now view LCIS as a marker of increased risk for
developing breast cancer, rather than as a precursor lesion like DCIS. It
is generally managed by excision only, and clear resection margins are not
generally required for these reasons. All patients with a diagnosis of LCIS,
whether on core biopsy or excision biopsy, are followed up with mammographic surveillance.
For all patients with early breast cancer, the key to selection of the
optimum treatment is multidisciplinary discussion, including radiology,
pathology, surgery, and oncology input. Appropriate treatment options
can then be presented to the patient to help them decide their individual
preference.

Further reading
Barnes NLP, Bundred NJ (2007). Treatment of ductal carcinoma in situ. In: Dixon JM, ed. Breast
surgery, 3rd edn. Edinburgh: Elsevier, pp. 149–66.
Van la Parra RF, Ernst MF, Barneveld PC, Broekman JM, Rutten MJ, Bosscha K (2008). The value of
sentinel lymph node biopsy in ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and DCIS with microinvasion of the
breast. Eur J Surg Oncol 34, 631–5.

281

282

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Management of early invasive
breast cancer
Early breast cancer is defined as disease that can be completely removed
by surgery, i.e. T1–3, N0–1 tumours. The management of this disease comprises the following:
• surgical treatment of the breast and axilla
• pathological assessment and staging to direct adjuvant therapy
• adjuvant therapy:
• chemotherapy
• radiotherapy
• endocrine therapy
• follow-up.
Again, multidisciplinary discussion and planning of treatment are essential to
optimize treatment outcomes.
• Consensus guidelines do not recommend routine staging investigations
such as CXR, liver ultrasound, bone scan, or CT imaging of the chest
and abdomen.
•	However, individuals at high risk of metastatic disease should be
identified by the MDT and imaged accordingly.
• Similarly, breast MRI can improve loco-regional staging in selected cases.

Breast surgery
• All patients require complete removal of the ° tumour by either wide
local excision or mastectomy.
•	Halsted mastectomy was the operation most extensively applied to
breast cancer patients during the first half of the twentieth century, but
it has gradually been replaced by a variety of less radical operations.
• Simple mastectomy and axillary node dissection (AND) is a less mutilating
operation, preserving the pectoralis major muscle and its neurovascular
bundle. Seroma and numbness of the axillary skin are common sequelae.
Lymphoedema may also be seen in around 16–28% of cases.
• Quadrantectomy, introduced at the beginning of the 1970s, is a
breast-conserving operation that removes the ° cancer with a margin
of 2.0cm of normal breast tissue. Infrequently performed now because
of poor cosmesis.
• Wide local excision removes the tumour mass with a limited margin
of normal tissue (0.5–1cm)—this is now the most commonly
performed procedure for early breast cancers but must be followed by
radiotherapy to prevent local recurrence.
• Breast-conserving surgery alone was followed by local recurrence of
breast cancer in up to 30% of patients.
• Several large randomized trials comparing breast-conserving surgery
followed by breast radiotherapy with mastectomy alone have
demonstrated similar local control rates and survival.
• Wide local excision, followed by breast irradiation, is the preferred
treatment for the majority of T1–2 breast cancers.
• A wide variety of specialist oncoplastic surgical techniques can be used
for resecting tumours where there is a relatively high tumour-to-breast

Management of early invasive breast cancer

volume and can optimize aesthetic outcomes, following
breast-conserving surgery. These techniques have been demonstrated
to be oncologically safe, with local recurrence rates comparable to
those of ‘conventional’ breast-conserving surgery.
• Breast conservation may not be appropriate, e.g.:
• multifocal disease
• large tumour in a small breast
• where breast irradiation would be contraindicated
• recurrent tumour after previous breast-conserving surgery and
radiotherapy.
• Some patients simply prefer mastectomy, not least because of the
possible avoidance of radiotherapy (not always).
• Irrespective of the choice of local treatment, it should result in a local
recurrence rate of <10% after 10y follow-up.
• Patients where breast-conserving surgery is not technically possible,
due to tumour size, may be candidates for neoadjuvant systemic
therapy. Chemotherapy has been shown to be effective in downstaging
tumours and increasing rates of breast-conserving surgery when given
preoperatively. It has also been shown to be equally as effective as
adjuvant treatment, in terms of DFS and OS.
• Breast reconstruction can be offered after mastectomy, either at the
time of ° surgery or at a later date—transverse rectus abdominis
muscle (TRAM) flap, latissimus dorsi flap, and implants all have a role.
These are well described by Cordeiro (2008). Generally, ° (immediate)
reconstruction is best carried out either by a plastic surgeon or
increasingly by a full-time oncoplastic breast surgeon.
• Patients with Paget’s disease are usually best served with a mastectomy,
due to the risk of occult in situ or invasive disease within the breast and
the high risk of in-breast recurrence following breast conservation.

Axillary surgery
• Clinical assessment of axillary nodes is inaccurate; palpable mobile
lymphadenopathy is associated with reactive lymph node changes as
commonly as metastasis.
• At least 30% of positive nodes are impalpable.
•	Ultrasound examination of the axilla and FNA cytology of abnormal
nodes improves the accuracy of preoperative assessment.
• Aims of axillary surgery:
• to provide pathological staging of axillary lymph nodes
• to clear the axilla of disease in order to reduce the risk of
uncontrolled axillary tumour.
• Axillary clearance:
• completes staging of the axilla
• provides regional control of the disease, unless the nodes are fixed
or extracapsular spread of cancer beyond the lymph node
• problem of overtreatment, particularly for small low-grade
cancers with low probability of positive nodes—particularly in
screen-detected disease.
• side effects—lymphoedema, arm pain, stiff shoulder, sensory deficit.
Must preserve the long thoracic nerve and thoracodorsal nerve.

283

284

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

• Sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB):
• the aim is the identification and removal of the first draining lymph
node for careful pathological examination
• should allow node-negative patients to avoid axillary clearance
• sentinel node-positive patients may then be treated by axillary
clearance (usually) or axillary radiotherapy (less often)
• dye and radiolabelled colloid injected in the peri-areolar region
(usually both techniques together are used)
• any blue-stained node or nodes with radioactivity count >10 times
the background are excised (there may be >1 sentinel node)
• several trials have demonstrated the advantages of SLNB over
axillary node sampling and clearance. There is less morbidity, but
there is a definite learning curve. SLNB is now routinely used in
the management of women with breast cancer with clinically and
radiologically negative axillae
• the role of frozen sections, touch imprint cytology, or molecular
methods to assess the sentinel lymph node intraoperatively are
currently being evaluated
• the prognostic impact of isolated tumour cells (<0.2mm) and
micrometastases (>0.2mm and <2mm) in the sentinel node is
controversial—the former is currently considered node-‘negative’,
and the latter node-‘positive’ and may require chemotherapy
• the recent American College of Surgeons Oncology Group
randomized trial examined the role of completion AND following
positive SLNB and found no additional survival or regional
recurrence benefit in women undergoing AND. However, this
trial is controversial due to the debate about the extent of axillary
radiotherapy used. A more recent European trial examined the
same issue in women with sentinel lymph node micrometastases
and similarly found no benefit from completion AND. This remains
a controversial issue, and the UK POSNOC trial is currently being
established to attempt to provide further data on the management
of the positive sentinel node.

Further reading
Cordeiro PG (2008). Breast reconstruction after surgery for breast cancer. N Eng J Med 359,
1590–601.
Fitoussi AD, Berry MG, Fama F, et al. (2010). Oncoplastic breast surgery for cancer: analysis of 540
consecutive cases. Plast Reconstr Surg 125, 454–62.
Galimberti V, Cole BF, Zurrida S, et al. (2013). Axillary dissection versus no axillary dissection in
patients with sentinel-node micrometastases (IBCSG 23-01): a phase 3 randomised controlled
trial. Lancet Oncol 14, 297–305.
Giuliano AE, Hunt KK, Ballman KV, et al. (2011). Axillary dissection vs no axillary dissection in women
with invasive breast cancer and sentinel node metastasis. A randomised clinical trial. JAMA 305,
569–75.
Rastogi P, Anderson SJ, Bear HD, et al. (2008). Preoperative chemotherapy: updates on National
Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project Protocols B-18 and B-27. J Clin Oncol 26, 778–85.
Salem AA, Douglas-Jones AG, Sweetland HM, Mansel RE (2006). Intraoperative evaluation of axillary
sentinel lymph nodes using touch imprint cytology and immunohistochemistry. Part II. Results. Eur
J Surg Oncol 32, 484–7.
Zavagno G, Del Bianco P, Koussis H, et al. (2008). Clinical impact of false-negative sentinel lymph
nodes in breast cancer. Eur J Surg Oncol 34, 620–5.

Loco-regional radiotherapy

Loco-regional radiotherapy
• Breast irradiation reduces the risk of local recurrence after
breast-conserving surgery from about 30% to <10% at 10y.
• In addition to the 75% reduction in the local recurrence rate, it is
estimated that, for every four local recurrences prevented, one
cancer-related death at 10y is avoided.
• Breast irradiation is recommended for all patients after wide local
excision for invasive breast cancer.
•	The whole breast is treated with tangential fields to a dose of 40Gy
in 15 fractions (or an equivalent dose fractionation regimen).
• Care taken to minimize the volume of the lung and heart irradiated;
most centres now using CT planning.
• Boost of 10–15Gy is commonly delivered to the tumour bed, using
electrons or 192Ir implant.
• Post-operative irradiation of the breast now accounts for a large
proportion of the work of most radiotherapy departments, and
efforts are being made to reduce this.
•	Risk-adjusted strategies are under investigation, e.g. no radiotherapy
in women >70y who have undergone wide local excision for
ER-positive T1, N0 breast cancer.
• Accelerated partial breast irradiation, e.g. high-dose-rate
brachytherapy, IMRT, or IORT are also being assessed in clinical
trials.
• Post-mastectomy radiotherapy to the chest wall reduces the risk of
loco-regional recurrence:
• recommended for patients with four or more positive axillary nodes
and for patients with T3 disease
• there is a modest survival benefit
• trials are ongoing to determine the benefits of post-mastectomy
radiotherapy in patients with 1–3 positive lymph nodes.
• Axillary radiotherapy:
• certainly indicated after a lymph node sampling that is positive
• generally should be avoided after axillary clearance because of the
high risk of lymphoedema and brachial plexopathy
• the SCF may be irradiated after axillary clearance if four or more
nodes positive.
In general, radiotherapy should begin as soon as possible after surgery.
However, enhanced normal tissue damage can result when radiotherapy
and adjuvant chemotherapy are given together, and radiotherapy is often
postponed until completion of chemotherapy.

285

286

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Adjuvant systemic therapy
Despite effective local therapy with surgery and radiotherapy, many
women with ‘early breast cancer’ harbour occult micrometastases, and, if
untreated, these give rise to overt metastatic disease, which leads to the
eventual death of the patient. There is now a large body of evidence that
effective systemic treatment directed against micrometastatic disease at the
time of diagnosis of breast cancer conveys a significant survival benefit in
the majority of women.
•	The risk of micrometastatic disease correlates well with the recognized
prognostic factors, simply summarized by the Nottingham prognostic
index (NPI).
• Similarly, the potential gains from systemic therapy, in terms of
improved survival, are greatest in patients with poor prognosis.
•	There have been many trials amongst women with operable breast
cancer, examining the effects of systemic treatment, either endocrine
manoeuvres or chemotherapy or both, on the survival of these patients.
•	The basis of all these therapies is the reduction or eradication of
microscopic systemic metastatic disease in women in whom all
macroscopic local tumour has been effectively removed.
• In 1992, the Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group
published an overview of 133 randomized trials involving 75 000 women
with early breast cancer.
•	This has had major impact, setting standards of care for adjuvant
therapy for this disease, with regular revisions published to keep pace
with clinical research.
• It was most recently updated in 2011, with a meta-analysis of 100 000
women treated within 123 adjuvant chemotherapy trials.

Adjuvant chemotherapy
(See Table 14.3.)
Combination chemotherapy reduces recurrence rates and mortality by
approximately one-third in all groups of women. This results in an absolute
gain in DFS and OS which is greatest in women at high risk.
• Age <50y:
• node-negative, 5.7% increase in 10y survival
• node-positive, 12.4% increase in 10y survival.
• Age 50–69y:
• node-negative, 6.4% increase in 10y survival
• node-positive, 2.3% increase in 10y survival.
• Chemotherapy should therefore be considered in all, but very good
prognosis in pre-menopausal breast cancer and in post-menopausal
women with intermediate or poor prognosis breast cancer.
• In the 1980–90s, ‘standard’ adjuvant regimens included 6mo of CMF
(cyclophosphamide, MTX, fluorouracil) or 12wk of AC (Adriamycin®
(doxorubicin), cyclophosphamide).
• Similar benefits from the shorter anthracycline regimen, but this was
unsuitable for some patients with, e.g. past history of cardiac disease.
• In 2006, positive results established the epirubicin CMF regimen as
the new standard for the UK, with a 7% improvement in 5y survival,
compared with 6mo treatment with CMF (82% versus 75%).

Adjuvant systemic therapy

• Similar benefits were seen with six 4wk cycles of CAF or CEF.
• Addition of a taxane to anthracycline adjuvant chemotherapy also
provides further modest benefit.
•	HER2-positive breast cancer has a relatively poor prognosis, despite
adjuvant chemotherapy, but several large cooperative trials have
demonstrated significant survival benefits when the monoclonal
antibody trastuzumab is given, in addition to adjuvant chemotherapy.
• Clinical trials with trastuzumab have helped to address some questions,
including:
• the optimum duration of adjuvant therapy appears to be 12mo
• the optimal timing is to deliver trastuzumab after anthracycline
chemotherapy is complete, but trastuzumab can be given along with
non-cardiotoxic cytotoxics, e.g. docetaxel
• cardiotoxicity with anthracyclines can be avoided using regimens such
as carboplatin/docetaxel/trastuzumab.
• Estimates of benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy with different
regimens may be calculated for individual patients, available via M www.
adjuvantonline.com.
Table 14.3 Examples of adjuvant chemotherapy regimens
CMF six cycles over 24wk
Cyclophosphamide

100mg/m2 PO or

Days 1–14

q 4wk

600mg/m2 IV

Days 1 and 8

q 4wk

MTX

40mg/m2 IV

Fluorouracil

600mg/m2 IV

Days 1 and 8

q 4wk

Doxorubicin

60mg/m2

Day 1

q 3wk

Cyclophosphamide

600mg/m2

Day 1

Epirubicin then

100mg/m2

q 3wk

4 cycles

CMF

As above

q 4wk

4 cycles

Fluorouracil

500mg/m2 IV

Days 1 and 8

q 4wk

Epirubicin

60mg/m2 IV

Days 1 and 8

q 4wk

Cyclophosphamide

75mg/m2 PO

Days 1–14

q 4wk

AC four cycles over 12wk

EpiCMF eight cycles over 28wk

FEC six cycles over 24wk

FEC three cycles, followed by docetaxel three cycles over 18wk
FEC as above, followed by:
Docetaxel

100mg/m2

Day 1

q 3wk

Docetaxel

75m2

Day 1

q 3wk

Doxorubicin

75mg/m2

Day 1

Cyclophosphamide

500mg/m2

Day 1

TAC 6 cycles over 18wk

287

288

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Adjuvant endocrine therapy
• 60% of breast cancers are ER-positive.
• Adjuvant hormone therapy confers survival benefits in these patients, in
some cases, greater than with chemotherapy.
•	Toxicity is less than for chemotherapy, mainly menopausal symptoms.
•	No benefit in ER-negative breast cancer.
• For pre-menopausal women, ovarian ablation after resection
of early breast cancer provides a 10.6% improvement in 10y
survival—node-negative 6.8%, node-positive 13%.
• Adjuvant tamoxifen, 20mg daily for 5y, improves survival in both pre-and
post-menopausal women:
• 10y survival improved by 5% in node-negative, 11% in node-positive
patients
• reduced risk of contralateral breast cancer and osteoporosis
• however, risk of thromboembolic disease and increased incidence of
endometrial cancer (× 2.5)
• recent results show continued benefit, in terms of reduced
breast cancer recurrence rates, with 10y of tamoxifen, compared
with 5y. These benefits clearly outweigh the increased risks of
thromboembolic disease and endometrial carcinoma. Prolonged
therapy is most appropriate in young pre-menopausal women with
ER-positive cancer.
• Several clinical trials have shown aromatase inhibitors to be superior to
tamoxifen as adjuvant therapy in post-menopausal women:
• improved relapse-free survival
• reduced risk of thromboembolic disease and endometrial cancer
• however, the optimum duration of therapy remains uncertain.
• Endocrine therapy may result in long-term health problems in breast
cancer survivors, e.g. osteoporosis, and efforts to prevent these
are under investigation (routine bone densitometry, prophylactic
bisphosphonate therapy).
• Interaction with chemotherapy:
• tamoxifen, given simultaneously with chemotherapy, reduces its
benefit
• adjuvant hormone therapy should only be commenced after
completion of chemotherapy.

Neoadjuvant therapy
° chemotherapy or hormone therapy for operable breast cancer provides early systemic treatment and allows assessment of the response to
treatment; by definition, this is impossible with adjuvant therapy. Its disadvantages are the delay in definitive local surgery and the risk of overtreatment with chemotherapy in the absence of pathological staging (e.g.
post-menopausal, ER-positive, node-negative tumour).
Several large randomized trials (e.g. NSABP-B18 and B27) have shown
no difference in survival when pre- and post-operative chemotherapy were
compared. Preoperative treatment can downstage the ° tumour and, in
some women, facilitates breast-conserving surgery where mastectomy
would otherwise be required.
Adjuvant and neoadjuvant therapy are compared in Table 14.4.

Adjuvant systemic therapy

Table 14.4 Comparison of adjuvant and neoadjuvant therapy
Adjuvant therapy

Neoadjuvant therapy

Advantages

Pathological staging available
for patient selection
Immediate surgical removal of
all macroscopic disease

Tumour response is visible to
both clinicians and patients
Reduction in tumour
volume can facilitate breast
conservation
Lack of response gives
opportunity to change
chemotherapy
Response to chemotherapy
is a predictor of long-term
outcomes

Disadvantages

No visible benefit in individual
patients
No means of assessing efficacy
of treatment regimen in
individual patients
Mastectomy required for many
tumours >3cm in diameter

Risk of overtreatment,
particularly in low-risk
post-menopausal women
Disease progression may
occur prior to surgery (clinical
trials have shown this is a rare
event)

Further reading
Davies C, Pan H, Godwin J, et al. (2013). Long-term effects of continuing adjuvant tamoxifen to
10 years versus stopping at 5 year after diagnosis of oestrogen receptor-positive breast cancer: ATLAS, a randomized trial. Lancet 381, 805–16.
Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group (1992). Systemic treatment of early breast cancer
by hormonal, cytotoxic or immune therapy—Parts I and II. Lancet 339, 1–15, 71–85.
Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group (1998). Tamoxifen for early breast cancer: an
overview of the randomized trials. Lancet 351, 1451–67.
Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group (1998). Polychemotherapy for early breast cancer: an overview of the randomized trials. Lancet 352, 930–42.
Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group (2000). Favourable and unfavourable effect on
long-term survival of radiotherapy for early breast cancer: an overview of the randomized trials.
Lancet 355, 1757–70.
Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group (2005). Effects of chemotherapy and hormonal
therapy for early breast cancer on recurrence and 15 year survival: an overview of the randomized trials. Lancet 365, 1687–717.
Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group (2011). Effect of radiotherapy after breast conserving surgery on 10 year recurrence and 15 year breast cancer death: meta-analysis of individual
patient data for 10,801 women in 17 randomised trials. Lancet 378, 1707–16.
Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group (2012). Comparisons between different polychemotherapy regimens for early breast cancer: meta-analyses of long-term outcome among
100,000 women in 123 randomised trials. Lancet 379, 432–44.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) (2009). Early and locally advanced breast
cancer: diagnosis and treatment. Clinical guideline 80. London: NICE. Available at: M http://www.
nice.org.uk/guidance/cg80.

289

290

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Management of locally advanced
breast cancer
Locally advanced disease is defined by the presence of infiltration of the
skin or the chest wall or fixed axillary nodes, i.e.:
• T4a–d
• N2–3.
The probability of metastatic disease is high (>70%), but long-term survival
is possible, and the median survival of these patients exceeds 2y.
At presentation, in addition to mammography and core biopsy, staging
investigations should include:
• CXR
• isotope bone scan
• liver ultrasound or CT scan—increasingly MRI is used for staging.
Local control of the tumour and the prevention of tumour fungation are
of major importance to the quality of life of these women, irrespective of
the presence of metastases. A combination of ° systemic treatment and
radiotherapy is commonly used.
Many of these patients are elderly and have indolent ER-positive disease
that responds well to endocrine therapy. First-line therapy in this group
should be with one of the aromatase inhibitors (anastrozole, letrozole,
or exemestane), which have been shown to be superior to tamoxifen in
advanced breast cancer. Following maximal response, radical radiotherapy
is delivered to the breast, axilla, and SCF.
Younger patients and patients with ER-negative disease are treated with
° chemotherapy, usually an anthracycline-based combination. In some
patients with a good response to systemic treatment, surgery may be feasible, followed by loco-regional radiotherapy. Hormone therapy is started
after chemotherapy for ER-positive tumours:
• pre-menopausal—ovarian suppression (LHRH agonist) and tamoxifen
• post-menopausal—aromatase inhibitor.
Promising results have been reported in HER2+ locally advanced breast
cancer treated with ° chemotherapy plus trastuzumab.

Management of locally advanced breast cancer

291

292

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Management of metastatic breast cancer
Between 15% and 20% of patients present with metastatic breast cancer,
and currently around 50% of patients with operable breast cancer relapse
with metastatic disease. Despite advances in the systemic treatment of
breast cancer, metastatic breast cancer is incurable with current therapies.
The principles of its management include the following:
• the aim of treatment is palliation
• however, 20% survive 5y, so key aims also include the extension of life
and maintenance of its quality
• ER-positive bone disease commonly demonstrates an indolent growth,
with prolonged survival
• ER-negative visceral disease has worse prognosis
• response to chemotherapy may be quicker than to hormone therapy,
response to hormones often more durable
• common sites of spread include the lung and pleura, liver, bone, brain,
lymph nodes, and skin
• rarer sites include the peritoneum (lobular carcinoma), choroid, and
pituitary.

Endocrine therapy
Treatment with tamoxifen, ovarian ablation, progestins, or aromatase inhibitors will provide an objective response or prevent disease progression in
50–60% of those with ER-positive tumours. It is preferred over chemotherapy in older patients and for non-visceral metastatic disease.
Disease that responds to endocrine therapy and then progresses has a
25% response rate with second-line treatment; the response rate to a third
agent is 10–15%. Randomized studies now suggest that the first-line treatment with the best response rate and longest progression-free interval is
not tamoxifen, but:
• pre-menopausal—ovarian suppression (LHRH agonist) plus tamoxifen
• post-menopausal—aromatase inhibitor (anastrozole, letrozole, or
exemestane)
• these treatments are also effective in patients who relapse during or
after adjuvant tamoxifen
• subsequent second-, third-, and fourth-line therapy with agents to which
the patient has not been exposed previously can be of benefit:
• megestrol acetate (progestin)
• fulvestrant (anti-oestrogen).

Chemotherapy
(See Table 14.5.)
Advanced breast cancer is moderately chemosensitive. Active agents
include:
• anthracyclines (doxorubicin, epirubicin)
• alkylating agents (cyclophosphamide)
• anti-metabolites (fluorouracil, capecitabine, MTX, gemcitabine)
• taxanes (docetaxel, paclitaxel)
• vincas (vinorelbine)
• platinum complexes (carboplatin, cisplatin).

Management of metastatic breast cancer

Table 14.5 Examples of chemotherapy regimens for advanced
breast cancer
FAC
Fluorouracil

500mg/m2

Doxorubicin

50mg/m2

Cyclophosphamide

500mg/m2

3-weekly

EC
Epirubicin

75mg/m2

Cyclophosphamide

600mg/m2

3-weekly

Taxanes
Docetaxel

75–100mg/m2

3-weekly

175mg/m2, or

3-weekly

90mg/m2

Weekly

Vinorelbine

25mg/m2 days 1 and 8

3-weekly

Capecitabine

1250mg/m2 PO bd

3-weekly

Trastuzumab

4mg/m2 loading dose

Wk 1

2mg/m2

Wk 2 onwards, weekly

or
Paclitaxel
Other agents

or
8mg/m2 loading dose

Wk 1

6mg/m2 weekly

Wk 4 onwards, 3-weekly

Vinorelbine, capecitabine, and trastuzumab may be used as a single agent or in combination, e.g.
with paclitaxel or docetaxel.

Combination chemotherapy is the preferred treatment for patients with
visceral metastatic disease:
• the liver and lung, rather than soft tissue, pleura, and bone
• ER-negative tumours.
Combinations, such as FAC (fluorouracil, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide),
produce response rates of 40–60%, with a median TTP of around 8mo.
Despite the toxicity of such combinations (alopecia, nausea, mucositis, lethargy, myelosuppression), clinical trials have shown that the QoL of women
improves, as they respond to treatment. Patients who have previously
received anthracycline-based adjuvant chemotherapy may be treated with a
taxane instead when they develop metastatic disease.
Following disease progression, 25–50% of women respond to second-line
chemotherapy, e.g. with a taxane. In patients who remain fit for further
chemotherapy, third- and fourth-line treatments may result in tumour
response. Treatment options include capecitabine, vinorelbine, gemcitabine, and eribulin (a novel spindle poison).

293

294

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Although phase II studies have suggested that high-dose chemotherapy
may produce durable remissions from metastatic breast cancer, no survival
benefit has yet been proven for such treatment.

Targeted therapy
Trastuzumab
Between 25% and 30% of breast cancers overexpress HER2, a growth
factor receptor associated with poor-prognosis disease. Trastuzumab is a
recombinant mAb against HER2, administered IV weekly or 3-weekly. This
drug has significant benefits in the treatment of HER2-positive advanced
breast cancer, either as a single agent after failure of other chemotherapy
regimens (response rate of 10%) or, more effectively, in combination with
chemotherapy. When trastuzumab is given in combination with taxanes in
the first-line treatment of metastatic breast cancer, it improves both the
response rate and survival time. However, a combination with anthracyclines is contraindicated because of cardiotoxicity. Similar promising results
are reported with trastuzumab in combination with other cytotoxics, e.g.
capecitabine.
Lapatinib
In patients refractory to trastuzumab, the receptor TKI lapatinib, which
inhibits EGFR and HER2, has shown positive results, in combination with
capecitabine.
Other agents
A variety of growth factor receptor TKIs and anti-angiogenesis agents are
under investigation in the setting of metastatic breast cancer refractory to
conventional endocrine therapy. The mTOR inhibitor everolimus, given in
combination with exemestane, improves the progression-free interval, compared with exemestane alone, in patients with hormone receptor-positive
advanced breast cancer previously treated with non-steroidal aromatase
inhibitors.

Radiotherapy
Low-dose radiotherapy (e.g. 20Gy/five fractions) provides effective
palliation for:
• painful bone metastases
• soft tissue disease
• spread to the brain or choroid.

Bisphosphonates
These drugs have important roles in patients with bone metastases from
breast cancer:
• treatment and prevention of malignant hypercalcaemia
• healing of osteolytic metastases
• reducing bone pain
• delaying the progression of bone disease, with reduced requirement for
radiotherapy and reduced fractures.
Prolonged treatment is recommended, starting from the time of diagnosis
of bone metastases and continuing even in the face of progressive disease.

Management of metastatic breast cancer

Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) is a rare, but serious, toxicity of bisphosphonates, particularly when given continuously over a long period for metastatic disease, and may be precipitated by dental extractions. Ongoing trials
are exploring:
• prophylactic treatment with these agents, hoping to prevent the
future development of bone metastases in women with high-risk early
breast cancer
• monitoring biomarkers of bone turnover, such as collagen cross-links, to
determine the optimum frequency/dose/duration of therapy.
Bisphosphonates for bone metastases from breast cancer
• Zoledronate, 4mg—15min IV infusion, 4-weekly.
• Pamidronate disodium, 90mg—2h IV infusion, 4-weekly.
• Ibandronic acid, 6mg—2h IV infusion, 4-weekly.
• Ibandronic acid, 50mg—PO daily.
• Sodium clodronate, 1600mg—PO daily.

Further reading
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) (2009). Advanced breast cancer: diagnosis
and treatment. Clinical guideline 81. London: NICE.

295

296

Chapter 14

Breast cancer

Management of male breast cancer
♂ breast cancer is rare, accounting for only 1% of all breast cancers.
Although frequently diagnosed with advanced disease in older patients
(median age 60–70y), stage for stage, the prognosis is similar to women.
The pathology is the same, although 85% demonstrate ER positivity, and
HER2 overexpression is uncommon (probably only 5%). Presentation is
most commonly with a subareolar solid mass, nipple retraction, or bleeding
from the nipple.
Staging of ♂ breast cancer mirrors the TNM system described earlier,
and, for many patients, the appropriate ° treatment is mastectomy and
either SLNB or axillary clearance. Post-mastectomy radiotherapy is recommended for local disease control in patients with large ° tumours (T3 or
4) and/or involved lymph nodes (N2 or 3).
Adjuvant tamoxifen is given to all men with ER-positive breast cancer for
5y, and adjuvant chemotherapy should be considered, again in similar fashion as in women, most frequently using anthracycline combinations (FAC
or FEC). No proven benefit has been shown with other adjuvant endocrine
therapies, in particular aromatase inhibitors.
The treatment of metastatic breast cancer in men is determined by the
presence or absence of ERs and the sites of disease, in particular whether
these are bone/soft tissue only or visceral, the latter potentially requiring initial chemotherapy for a prompt response. A number of endocrine
therapies have shown benefit in men who develop progressive disease after
initial response to tamoxifen, and these include LHRH agonists, progestins,
androgens, and aromatase inhibitors. The range of cytotoxic therapies
appropriate for visceral metastases and for metastatic disease progressing
after endocrine therapy is identical to that used in women. In men with
breast cancer which overexpresses HER2, trastuzumab therapy should also
be considered.

Prognosis

Prognosis
Table 14.6 summarizes the 10y survival rates, according to the stage of the
disease at presentation. Although many women with metastatic breast disease survive 5y, despite progress in all aspects of treatment, this stage of
the disease remains incurable.
Table 14.6 Treatment outcomes: breast cancer survival rates
Stage

10y survival (%)a

0

>95

I

75–95

IIA

45–85

IIB

40–80

IIIA

10–60

IIIB

0–35

IIIC

0–30

IV

0.5

Wide range of survival rates, individual prognosis determined by the TNM stage, grade, ER
status, and treatment, e.g. chemotherapy.
a

297

Chapter 15

Colorectal cancer
Introduction 300
Colorectal cancer: surgery 302
Adjuvant chemotherapy of colorectal cancer 304
Chemotherapy for advanced colorectal cancer 306
Radiotherapy in colorectal cancer 310

299

300

Chapter 15

Colorectal cancer

Introduction
• Colorectal cancer is the fourth commonest cancer worldwide.
• Affects men and women almost equally.
•	Environmental factors (diet) play a major role in the aetiology of the
disease.
• A minority of cases (<8%) are associated with genetic predisposition
syndromes such as FAP and HNPCC.
• Almost always adenocarcinoma.
• Loco-regional lymph nodes tend to be involved before the development
of disseminated disease.
• In rectal cancer, there is also a propensity for the tumour to infiltrate
laterally into the peri-rectal fat and lymph nodes.

Introduction

301

302

Chapter 15

Colorectal cancer

Colorectal cancer: surgery
• Surgery is the mainstay of curative therapy for colorectal cancer.
• Curative resection requires excision of the ° tumour and its lymphatic
drainage, with an enveloping margin of normal tissue.

Preoperative preparation
•	The precise site and local extent of the tumour should be known before
laparotomy or laparoscopic resection. In the latter, the site of the
tumour must be carefully marked with ink via the colonoscope before
laparoscopic resection; knowledge of distant spread is helpful.
• Full colonoscopy or proctosigmoidoscopy and air-contrast barium
enema (in the absence of obstruction or perforation) are required.
•	The liver is imaged with CT and/or ultrasound examination; CT
and endo-anal ultrasound imaging of the pelvis may offer additional
information of the depth of invasion of rectal cancers. MRI of the pelvis
to stage rectal cancer is useful and considered mandatory in some
institutions.
•	Perioperative antibiotics and thromboembolic prophylaxis are
mandatory.

Principles in primary resection
•	The bowel segment and its lymphatic field are excised intact.
• If an anastomosis is planned, it is fashioned without tension, ensuring a
good lumen, secure apposition, and good blood supply.
• Minimally invasive colon cancer surgery is now commonplace. Whilst
there is a distinct learning curve, the benefits in the short term are
proven, and long-term data show no adverse impact on survival.

Rectal cancer
•	Total excision of the mesorectum (TME) is considered essential.
This involves removal of the rectum itself, together with a sleeve of
surrounding tissue contained within the mesorectal fascia. This has been
shown to reduce local relapse rates.
• A proximal limit of 5cm clearance and a distal limit of 2cm clearance are
adequate. There is now increasing evidence that rectal cancer surgery
should be done in high-volume units by specialists.

Post-operative care
•	There is now clear evidence that the routine use of the enhanced
recovery programme leads to speedier recovery and (perhaps) fewer
post-operative complications.

Local excision
•	Preoperative assessment with MRI and endo-anal ultrasound is essential.
• 5% of rectal cancers may be removed by non-radical transanal surgery.
In specialized centres, transanal endoscopic microsurgery has a role in
very selected patients.
•	Particularly appropriate in small, low, well-differentiated cancers on the
posterior wall.

Colorectal cancer: surgery

• If the pathologist reports incomplete excision, spread through the rectal
wall, or poorly differentiated carcinoma, radical surgery may be required
to obtain local extirpation of the tumour, if the patient is fit.

Surgery of recurrent cancer
• Local recurrence occurs most commonly in rectal cancer, usually
outside the bowel lumen. This is less common with adequate TME.
If investigations suggest that a recurrence is isolated and potentially
resectable, further surgery should be considered.
•	Patients with metastases confined to the liver that are potentially
resectable should be carefully considered in the context of an MDT
which includes a hepatobiliary surgeon, as there is up to 30% chance
of cure in carefully selected cases. Laparoscopic liver resection of 2° is
routine in specialized centres.
• Repeat liver resection of further colorectal 2° is helpful in selected
patients. In a few centres, this is also being done laparoscopically.
• Resection of other ‘solitary sites’, such as the lung, may also have
long-term benefits.

Further reading
Baatrup G, Elbrand H, Hesselfeldt P (2007). Rectal adenocarcinoma and transanal endoscopic microsurgery. Int J Colorectal Dis 22, 1347–52.
Colon Cancer Laparoscopic or Open Resection Study Group (2009). Survival after laparoscopic
surgery versus open surgery for colon cancer: long-term outcome of a randomised clinical trial.
Lancet Oncol 10, 44–52.
den Dulk M, van de Velde CJ (2008). Time to focus on the quality of colon cancer surgery. Lancet
Oncol 9, 815–16.
Hendry PO, Hausel J, Nygnen J, et al. (2009). Determinant of outcome after colorectal resection
within an enhanced recovery programme. Br J Surg 96, 197–205.
Hogan AM, Kennelly R, Winter DC (2009). Volume–outcome analysis in rectal cancer: a plea for
enquiry, evidence and evaluation. Eur J Surg Oncol 35, 111–12.
Liang Y, Li G, Chen P, Yu J (2008). Laparoscopic versus open colorectal resection for cancer: a
meta-analysis of results of randomized controlled trials on recurrence. Eur J Surg Oncol 34,
1217–24.
Tythenleigh MG, Warren BF, Mortensen NJ (2008). Management of early rectal cancer. Br J Surg
95, 409–23.

303

304

Chapter 15

Colorectal cancer

Adjuvant chemotherapy of
colorectal cancer
Rationale
Half of the patients undergoing apparently curative resection of bowel cancer are destined to relapse and eventually die with either locally recurrent or
distant metastatic disease. This is due to the presence of residual micrometastases, invisible at the time of surgery. The aim of adjuvant chemotherapy
is to eradicate these micrometastases and thereby prevent future relapse.

Indications
Adjuvant chemotherapy is an exercise in risk reduction. Questions to be
considered, after a potentially curative operation, are the following:
• what is the probability of micrometastases?
• will adjuvant therapy prevent/delay relapse?
• what are the side effects?
MDT discussion is essential.
The risk that the patient has micrometastases is estimated after surgery
by examining the pathological features of the ° cancer.
•	Dukes’ C cancers, which have spread to the nearby lymph nodes, carry
a much higher risk (around 50%). There is good evidence that this risk
is reduced by adjuvant chemotherapy, which is now offered routinely in
most centres, unless there is a strong contraindication.
•	Dukes’ B cancers, which have breached the muscle layers, but not
spread to lymph nodes, carry an intermediate risk of around 30%.
There is evidence to support the use of adjuvant chemotherapy in these
patients, but this is an area of ongoing controversy. Research efforts are
being made to provide tests which can better delineate the risk–benefit
equation in this group.
• Rectal cancer, which accounts for nearly 40% of bowel cancers, presents
some special considerations. A relative lack of a barrier to lateral spread
and increased technical difficulty of surgery in the pelvis combine to
make local recurrence a particular problem. Radiotherapy, targeted
to the pelvis either before or after surgery, reduces local recurrence
rates. Adjuvant therapy for rectal cancer may therefore include both
radiotherapy and chemotherapy aimed, respectively, at local and
systemic micrometastases.

Chemotherapy used in adjuvant setting
•	Until recently, the standard was fluorouracil, given in combination
with FA, by bolus IV injection for a total period of 6mo. A variety of
alternative regimens are used in different countries and institutions.
•	Oxaliplatin is a platinum analogue which, when added to fluorouracil and
FA, has been shown to result in superior survival at the cost of some
(mainly short-lived) extra toxicity. This regimen (FOLFOX) has become
a standard in many countries in those patients who are deemed suitable
for such therapy. More recently, the addition of oxaliplatin has been
questioned, especially in the more elderly patients, and the standard of
care is thus highly variable.

Adjuvant chemotherapy of colorectal cancer

• Capecitabine (which is an oral pro-drug of fluorouracil) has been shown
to be active in the adjuvant setting and has replaced IV chemotherapy in
some institutions. The dosing and potential combinations with oxaliplatin
(XELOX) have also been tested and shown to be equivalent in efficacy
to FOLFOX, but with a slightly different toxicity profile.
• Studies investigating the addition of agents that target EGFR or VEGF
receptor have failed to show real benefits, and these agents are not
indicated in the adjuvant setting.
• Fluorouracil (and capecitabine) is also a radiosensitizer. For patients with
rectal cancer, pre- or post-operative pelvic radiotherapy is sometimes
given concurrently with chemotherapy, to harness this effect. This
may be followed by a more prolonged course of standard adjuvant
chemotherapy, aimed at distant micrometastases.

Side effects
The clinical activity of fluorouracil and its side effects are both critically
dependent upon the dose and schedules used and vary considerably from
patient to patient. The side effect profile should, for most patients, be quite
easily tolerable and consistent with continuing normal activity, including
work. Treatment is feasible, even in the elderly. Capecitabine is associated
with a higher incidence of hand–foot syndrome, but this can usually be managed by judicious dose reductions.
Common side effects
• Nausea and vomiting.
•	Oral mucositis.
•	Diarrhoea.
• Red, painful palms and soles (hand–foot syndrome).
•	Peripheral neuropathy (when oxaliplatin is included).

305

306

Chapter 15

Colorectal cancer

Chemotherapy for advanced
colorectal cancer
•	Defined as disease that is outwith the possibility of curative resection.
• Mostly, this is defined by the presence of metastatic disease which is
unresectable.
•	Poor prognosis and, in most cases, the aim of therapy is palliation,
although prolongation of survival has been achieved by application of
modern chemotherapy agents.
•	The median survival time for such patients without further therapy is of
the order of 6mo.
• In most cases, therapy is based on chemotherapy, but this does not
preclude the use of combined modalities such as localized radiotherapy
or ablative techniques for liver metastases.
• A small proportion of patients have so-called pauci-metastatic disease,
in other words, disease that is potentially resectable or could be made
so by volume reduction using chemotherapy (downstaging). These highly
selected patients should be identified and treated within an MDT setting,
with a view to surgical resection and potential cure of the disease.
•	There are multiple choices of chemotherapy combined with targeted
therapies, but no consensus has been reached as to the optimal pathway
of care. This has led to a profusion of clinical guidelines, with marked
variation in practice across the globe.

First-line chemotherapy
(See Table 15.1.)
Fluorouracil is still the most widely used single agent. There is no consensus as to the optimal dosing and scheduling of this drug. However, most
authorities now accept that infusional regimens result in better response
with less toxicity. Biochemical modulation by the use of concurrent FA (leucovorin) also seems to improve response rates. Response rates of between
10% and 50% have been quoted for regimens combining fluorouracil/FA.
This variability is probably a reflection of patient selection as much as the
efficiency of the chemotherapy employed. Various regimens have been able
to demonstrate survival improvements of about 6mo over patients treated
with best supportive care alone. Different regimens have differences in the
toxicity profile, with boluses tending to cause more marrow toxicity, and
protracted infusions causing more diarrhoea and hand–foot syndrome (see
Table 15.2).
Oxaliplatin is a platinum analogue that is active in colorectal cancer.
Synergy with fluoropyrimidines has been demonstrated in clinical trials.
Combination studies with fluorouracil-based regimens (so-called FOLFOX
regimens, known as XELOX when capecitabine is used in the place of fluorouracil/FA) versus the same regimen without oxaliplatin have confirmed a
higher response, with some studies also showing survival benefits. A striking
feature of these studies is the numbers of patients who are ‘downstaged’ by
the combination therapy and then go on to have salvage surgery, with some
achieving long-term remission. Even though there are no prospective studies, this combination is often used in patients with pauci-metastatic disease.

Oxal 85mg/m2

FOLFOX/XELOX—substitute
capecitabine for FU/FA

IVI, intravenous infusion.

FOLFIRI/XELIRI

FA 400mg/m2
bolus

FA 400mg/m2
bolus

PO

Irino 130–180mg/m2

IV bolus and
infusion

Route

FOLFIRI/XELIRI—substitute
capecitabine for FU/FA

Highly variable

5-FU–leucovorin

Capecitabine

Dose

Regimen

fluorouracil
400–500mg/
m2bolus

fluorouracil
400-500mg/m2
over 2h
fluorouracil 600mg/m2
as 22h IVI

fluorouracil
2400–3000mg/m2 IVI
over 46h

Table 15.1 Commonly used regimens in first-line treatment of advanced colorectal cancer

14 days XELOX

2 days FOLFOX

14 days

Variable

Dose interval

3wk

2wk

3wk

Variable

Repeat

Chemotherapy for advanced colorectal cancer

307

308

Chapter 15

Colorectal cancer

Table 15.2 Second-line chemotherapy
FU/leuc

FOLFOX

FOLFIRI

Capecitabine

Nausea/vomiting

+

+

+

+

Diarrhoea

+++

++

+++

++

Mucositis

+++

+

+

+

Myelosuppression

++

+

+++

+

Alopecia

–

–

+

–

Hand–foot syndrome

+

–

++

+++

In the last few years, the introduction of a number of new agents into this
therapy area has dramatically changed how this disease is treated.
Irinotecan is a topoisomerase inhibitor. The drug has shown single-agent
activity in first- and second-line use. In combination with FU/FA (commonly
known as FOLFIRI, or XELIRI when capecitabine replaces the FU/FA components), first-line trials confirmed improved response and overall survival,
such that this combination became an accepted standard of care. However,
the combination does have the potential to cause severe toxicity such as
diarrhoea and neutropenia. As a result, there is no current consensus as to
the optimal regimen for therapy of advanced colorectal cancer.
Capecitabine is an orally administered pro-drug of fluorouracil. In advanced
colorectal cancer, it has shown improved response over a fluorouracil regimen
and equivalent survival. The convenience to the patient of replacing infusional
regimens of fluorouracil with oral medication is an important factor. Studies
combining capecitabine with irinotecan or oxaliplatin have shown favourable results, and the drug is now considered as part of the standard of
care in most countries. Although other oral fluoropyrimidines have been
developed, none are as widely used as capecitabine.
Bevacizumab is an agent which targets the vascular supply of the cancer.
It has shown very modest single-agent activity, but, when combined with
FOLFIRI or FOLFOX-like regimens, there is a clear additional benefit. This
agent has been licensed in this indication in many countries, but its use is still
somewhat controversial. It does produce some specific side effects such
as hypertension and clotting issues. There is no evidence that the benefits
of bevacizumab are limited to subsets of patients, and, despite extensive
research, no biomarkers which define activity have been discovered.
Cetuximab is a mAb that targets the EGFR. The drug has shown activity
both as a single agent and in combination with cytotoxic drugs, particularly
irinotecan. Although now considered part of the standard of care, there
remains controversy over its place. In particular, the relative benefits of
bevacizumab versus cetuximab are unclear, and it is increasingly becoming
the norm that patients will be exposed to all agents at some time in the
course of their treatment time. Cetuximab has two unique attributes which
help define its place in therapy.
First, it produces an acneiform rash which occurs in at least 30% of people.
Interestingly, the severity of the rash correlates with the beneficial effect.

Chemotherapy for advanced colorectal cancer

Second, the drug benefits only those patients who have K-ras wild-type
tumours. So molecular selection is used by analysis of the tumour tissue, so
that those who have K-ras mutations in their cancer are not exposed to an
ineffectual therapy.
Combinations of the agents listed above have been tested in a large
number of clinical trials. Consensus exists that combination therapy offers
higher response rates at the cost of some increase in subjective toxicity.
Since, in most cases, the aim of therapy is palliation, a number of important
issues arise:
• which combination is best?
• which sequence of agents?
• continuous or intermittent exposure to treatment?
• how to best combine the targeted drugs?
• which regimen is best to downstage patients who may be candidates for
resection of metastases?
These and other questions will form the basis of clinical research in this area
for some time to come.

Second-line chemotherapy
Irinotecan was the first agent to show real activity in patients who had
relapsed, following fluorouracil, or progressed whilst on this therapy.
Various combinations of irinotecan with fluorouracil (known as FOLFIRI)
are widely used. No consensus exists as to the optimal combination doses
or schedules.
Oxaliplatin has not been tested as extensively as a single agent in
second-line therapy. However, the addition of oxaliplatin into a regimen
of fluorouracil, where the patient has ‘failed’, has shown activity. Likewise,
there are a number of regimens which collectively are known as FOLFOX.
Once more, there is no real consensus as to the best doses and schedules.
The optimal sequencing of these regimens is also not clear. The common
practice is to start therapy with a FOLFOX-like regimen and replace this
with FOLFIRI when the tumour is no longer responsive, or the vice versa
sequence of regimens.
Regorafenib is a novel agent which acts by inhibiting multiple TKs in the
oncogenic pathways of colorectal cancer. It has recently shown survival
benefit in so-called ‘last line’ patients, i.e. those that have exhausted the
agents described earlier. It is undergoing regulatory review in various countries at present, and its place in standard of care is not yet defined.

309

310

Chapter 15

Colorectal cancer

Radiotherapy in colorectal cancer
• In colonic cancer, radiotherapy is limited to the palliative situation in
most circumstances.
•	The rectum is immobile and fixed within the pelvis, and therefore a
suitable target for radiotherapy.
• Radiotherapy has been used in both the preoperative and
post-operative setting in this disease.
• In the preoperative situation, there is a group of patients (10–15%) who
present with large fixed or tethered tumours that are non-resectable.
Only half of this group will have distant metastases at presentation.
The conversion rate to resectability is 35–75%, with a dose of 50–60Gy
given over a 5wk period.

Chapter 16

Anal cancer
Introduction 312
Anal squamous cell carcinoma 314
Rarer tumours 316
Practical points 316

311

312

Chapter 16

Anal cancer

Introduction
• 3–5% of all large bowel malignancies.
• Most anal tumours arise from the epidermal elements of the anal canal
lining (squamous cell—85% of anal tumours), although some arise from
the glandular mucosa of the uppermost part of the anal canal or from
the anal ducts and glands (adenocarcinomas—10% of anal tumours).
• Malignant melanoma of the anus is very rare (<5% of anal tumours) and
carries a poor prognosis.

Introduction

313

314

Chapter 16

Anal cancer

Anal squamous cell carcinoma
Epidemiology
• Rare cancer, around 250 UK cases per annum.
• ♂:♀ ratio 1:3.
•	Usually >50y.
• Areas with a high incidence of anal cancer also tend to have a high
incidence of cervical, vulval, and penile tumours.

Aetiology
•	HPV infection.
• Receptive anal intercourse.
• Sexually transmitted disease, >10 sexual partners.
• Previous cervical, vulval, or vaginal cancer.
• Immunosuppression after solid organ transplant.
•	Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
• Cigarette smoking.

Pathology and natural history
• Included within the category of epidermoid tumours are:
• SCCs
• basaloid (or cloacogenic) carcinomas
• mucoepidermoid cancers.
•	The anal sphincter and recto-vaginal septum, the perineal body, and the
vagina are common sites of direct invasion.
• Lymph node spread occurs initially to the peri-rectal group of nodes
and thereafter to the inguinal, haemorrhoidal, and lateral pelvic
lymph nodes.
• 10% of patients will present with inguinal lymph node involvement, but
this rises to 730% when the ° tumour is >5cm in diameter.
• Blood-borne spread tends to occur late and is usually associated with
advanced local disease. The most common sites of metastases are the
liver, lung, and bones.

Clinical presentation
• Symptoms of epidermoid anal cancer:
• pain
• bleeding
• itch
• discharge
• mass.
• Later symptoms:
• faecal incontinence
• ano-vaginal fistula.
Approximately one-third of patients with anal carcinoma have enlarged
inguinal lymph nodes on presentation, but less than half this number has
metastatic nodes. Often the nodes are secondarily infected or reactive.

Anal squamous cell carcinoma

Investigation and staging
• Careful examination under anaesthetic, with biospy of the lesion,
documentation of the length, site, and extent of ° tumours.
• FNA cytology—enlarged inguinal lymph nodes.
• CT or MRI scan—abdomen and pelvis.
• Staging commonly uses the TNM system (see M https://cancerstaging.
org to download the TNM staging).

Management
Over the last 20y, treatment of this cancer has moved from surgery (abdominoperineal resection) to organ-conserving therapy, and chemo-irradiation is
now a standard treatment for the majority (T2–4, and all node-positive
patients).
Randomized trials, such as ACT 1 (Anal Cancer Trial), have demonstrated a 20% improvement in local control with chemo-irradiation, compared with radiotherapy alone.
• Most recurrence is loco-regional.
• Small lesions at the anal margin may still best be treated by local excision
alone, obviating the need for protracted courses of non-surgical therapy.
The most recent development is SLNB of the inguinal nodes, and it has
been well demonstrated in a recent German study to be efficient and
practical.
• An important role for the surgeon is in treatment after failure of °
non-surgical therapy, either early or late. The appearance of the ° site
can be misleading after radiotherapy. A proportion of patients develop
complications, such as radio-necrosis, fistula, or incontinence, following
radical radiation or combined therapy.

Treatment outcomes
• 60–70% 5y survival.
• 70–80% anal preservation.
•	The prognosis depends on the tumour size, lymph node status
(node-positive—50% 5y survival).

Further reading
Gretschel S, Warnick P, Bembenek A, et al. (2008). Lymphatic mapping and sentinel lymph node
biopsy in epidermoid carcinoma of the anal canal. Eur J Surg Oncol 34, 890–4.

315

316

Chapter 16

Anal cancer

Rarer tumours
Adenocarcinoma
Adenocarcinoma in the anal canal is usually a very low rectal cancer that
has spread downwards to involve the canal, but true adenocarcinoma of
the anal canal does occur, probably arising from the anal glands that arise
around the dentate line and pass radially outwards into the sphincter muscles. This is a very rare tumour; although it is radiosensitive, it is still usually
treated by radical surgery.

Malignant melanoma
This tumour is excessively rare, accounting for just 1% of anal canal malignant tumours. The lesion may mimic a thrombosed external pile due to
its colour, although amelanotic tumours also occur. It has an even worse
prognosis than at other sites. As the chances of cure are minimal, radical
surgery as ° treatment has been all but abandoned.

Practical points
• Rectal bleeding and anal pain are common—a high degree of suspicion
is required to diagnose anal cancer correctly.
• Multifocal anal and genital disease may coexist—be sure to examine the
anal and genital areas.
•	Examination under anaesthetic is essential for adequate staging and also
permits a generous biopsy.
• Biopsy or needle aspiration of enlarged inguinal lymph nodes is essential
prior to treatment.
• Local excision may be appropriate for small anal margin cancers.
• Chemo-irradiation is the treatment of choice for most anal squamous
carcinomas.

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal
cancer
Oesophageal 318
Gastric 324
Small Intestinal 330
Hepatic 336
Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma 344
Liver metastases 350
Treatment of colorectal liver metastases 352
Pancreatic: ductal adenocarcinoma 358
Pancreatic: pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours 364
Ampullary carcinoma 368
Gall bladder 372
Biliary tract 376

317

318

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Oesophageal
Epidemiology
• Ninth commonest cancer in Western countries. including the UK where
it accounts for 3% of new cancer cases.
• 72.5 times as common in ♂, compared with ♀.
• The incidence increases with age, with an 8-fold increase between the
age ranges of 45–54y and 65–74y.
• Highest rates are seen in South Africa and China.
• In the UK, in 2010, 8477 people were diagnosed with oesophageal
cancer, and 7610 died of the disease.
• Accounts for 75% of cancer-related deaths in Western countries.

Aetiology
• Aetiological factors vary with geographical region and with histological
subtype.
•	Risk factors for SCCs include smoking, excess alcohol consumption,
dietary factors (nitrate-containing preserved foods, low levels
of antioxidants), betel nut chewing; achalasia, lye strictures,
Paterson–Brown–Kelly syndrome (Plummer–Vinson syndrome), tylosis
palmaris, HPV infection, mediastinal radiotherapy, and consumption of
very hot drinks.
•	Risk factors for adenocarcinomas include gastro-oesophageal reflux
disease, Barrett’s oesophagus (especially high-grade dysplasia), achalasia,
and obesity. Heavy smoking, alcohol, and a poor diet are weakly
associated, as are scleroderma, achalasia, and lye strictures.
• Currently, no definite genetic predisposition to oesophageal carcinoma
is recognized.

Pathology
• The two main types of tumour are SCC and adenocarcinoma, with the
former affecting the proximal two-thirds, and the latter the middle and
distal oesophagus.
• Historically, SCCs were the predominant histological subtype, but
there has been a decline in the number of these patients. Squamous
carcinoma is the commoner tumour type in the middle and Far East and
in Africa.
• There has been a striking rise in incidence of adenocarcinoma of the
lower oesophagus and GOJ, and this is now the commonest subtype in
the UK. It is also more prevalent than squamous carcinoma in Western
Europe and the US.
• Adenocarcinomas arising around the oesophago-gastric junction are
regarded as a separate entity, and their behaviour is more aggressive
than more proximal oesophageal adenocarcinomas. They are classified,
as shown in Table 17.1.
•	Rarer histological subtypes include leiomyosarcoma and GIST.

Oesophageal

Table 17.1 Siewart classification of junctional tumours
Type I

Distal oesophageal

Centre of tumour lies 1–5cm above the
anatomic cardia

Type II

Cardia of stomach

Centre of stomach from 1cm above to 2cm
below the anatomic cardia

Type III

Proximal stomach

Centre of tumour lies 2–5cm below the
anatomic cardia

Adapted from Siewert JR, Feith M, Werner M, Stein HJ (2000). Adenocarcinoma of the
esophagogastric junction: results of surgical therapy based on anatomical/topographic
classification in 1,002 consecutive patients. Ann Surg; 232: 353–361, with permission from
Lippincott Williams & Wilkins.

Presentation
• The typical history is of progressive dysphagia, initially to solids and later
liquids. Patients may report regurgitation of food. Dysphagia is one of
the upper GI alarm symptoms, and British Society of Gastroenterology
(BSG) guidelines advise that patients require urgent referral (within
2wk) for investigation; 25% of patients with true dysphagia will have an
underlying oesophageal carcinoma.
• Often associated with weight loss, anorexia, and emaciation that are
frequently of rapid onset.
• Other symptoms include odynophagia (painful swallowing), hoarseness
(recurrent laryngeal nerve invasion), chest pain due to bolus impaction,
respiratory symptoms (aspiration or tracheo-oesophageal fistula (TOF)),
and halitosis due to residual food matter.
•	Examination is usually non-contributory for early disease, but cervical
lymph nodes, weight loss, anaemia, and hepatomegaly may be seen with
advanced disease.

Diagnosis
•	Endoscopy and biopsy are the investigation of choice, as they allow direct
visualization of the tumour and provide an opportunity for obtaining
tissue for histological analysis. They allow documentation of the site and
size of the lesion and allow biopsies to be performed (minimum of six).
• In areas of high incidence, population screening with endoscopy is
undertaken.
• Barium/Gastrografin® swallow examinations are sometimes used and
demonstrate irregular strictures in the case of carcinoma. However,
endoscopic biopsy is still required prior to consideration of resection.
• CT scanning of the chest and abdomen is the first line of staging to detect
distant metastatic disease and provides a good idea of local spread.
• For patients with no evidence of metastatic disease, EUS is used to
better define the local infiltration of adjacent structures, including
the aorta and trachea, and provide more accurate assessment of the
tumour and adjacent lymph nodes. Targeted biopsies of suspicious
lymph nodes can also be performed, if their presence would influence
the treatment course.

319

320

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

• A PET scan with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose, combined with CT
(FDG-PET-CT), can improve detection of distant metastases but is less
useful in staging ° and loco-regional nodal disease. It is of particular
benefit for oesophageal cancers, given the morbidity and mortality of
oesophagectomy.
• Laparoscopy is important for patients with lower oesophageal or GOJ
adenocarcinomas, to detect peritoneal and liver metastases.
• For tumours above the level of the carina, bronchoscopy may be used
to assess bronchial invasion; however, EUS is usually sufficient.

Staging
The staging of oesophageal carcinoma follows the TNM system (see
M https://cancerstaging.org to download the TNM staging).

Treatment
• Treatment recommendations should be undertaken in the setting of an
MDT approach, including surgeons, gastroenterologists, radiologists,
oncologists, pathologists, dieticians, and specialist nurses. Patient
co-morbidities, nutritional status, and patient preference should be
considered, in addition to staging information.
• Patients with high-grade dysplasia, confirmed by two histopathologists
(at least one of whom is an oesophago-gastric specialist), are also
regarded as candidates for treatment and should be discussed at an
oesophago-gastric MDT.

Potentially curable disease
Surgical resection
•	Endoscopic mucosal resection may be considered for early oesophageal
neoplasms limited to the mucosa (T1a).
• Patients may be suitable for neoadjuvant chemotherapy or
chemo-radiotherapy (see E Adjuvant/neoadjuvant therapy, p. 321), and
this should be determined in the MDT. The timing of surgery, following
such treatment, is important, as is the need to re-stage the tumour.
•	Resectable tumours are T1b–T3 ± N1. T4 tumours invading the
diaphragm, pleura, or pericardium may also be considered candidates.
• For patients with resectable tumours, careful preoperative evaluation
is required. The exact protocol is variable from unit to unit but should
include cardiac and respiratory assessment, as patients undergoing
resection will be maintained on single-lung ventilation during the thoracic
phase of the surgery.
• Nutritional assessment is important, as many patients with dysphagia
are malnourished (body mass index, BMI <18.5 or >20% weight loss).
Following dietary assessment, preoperative nutrition may be desirable.
• Perioperative morbidity and mortality are lower in specialized centres,
with mortality rates of <5% in contemporary series, and so all
oesophagectomies are performed in designated cancer centres in the UK.
• Preoperative preparation includes thromboembolic prophylaxis,
antibiotic prophylaxis, and provision of a high dependency unit (HDU)/
intensive care unit (ICU) bed. The majority of patients are offered
epidural analgesia.

Oesophageal

• Surgical approaches include the Ivor Lewis 2 stage transthoracic
oesophagectomy, in which separate incisions are made in the chest and
abdomen, and transhiatal oesophagectomy, in which all the procedure
is performed via the abdomen. The oncological outcomes of the
two procedures have been shown to be comparable in an RCT. The
transhiatal approach is limited to tumours of the lower oesophagus, as
access is limited to more proximal tumours. Upper one-third tumours
may require a three-stage oesophagectomy, with a cervical incision and
anastomosis.
• Minimally invasive resection can be performed and has been shown to
be safe with comparable oncological outcomes. However, it is currently
limited to specialist centres and is being subjected to close scrutiny, as
some major complications, including gastric tube necrosis, appear more
common after a laparoscopic approach.
• The proximal resection margin should be at least 10cm clear of the
macroscopic tumour and the distal 5cm or more.
• Following resection, continuity is usually restored, using a gastric tube as
a conduit. Other options for extensive resections include the colon and
jejunum.
• For carcinomas limited to the mucosa, the 5y survival is >80%, and
>50% for disease extending into the submucosa. The overall 5y survival
for oesophageal carcinoma post-resection is around 25%.
• The morbidity of an oesophagectomy is significant at around 40%. An
anastomotic leak is the most serious operation-specific complication (5%),
with others including respiratory (pneumonia, atelectasis), cardiac (MI, heart
failure, AF), recurrent laryngeal nerve injury, DVT and PE, and chylothorax.
• Good analgesia, early mobilization, and judicious use of IV fluids help to
reduce complication rates.
Adjuvant/neoadjuvant therapy
• Post-operative adjuvant therapy is difficult to deliver after major
oesophageal surgery.
• Neither chemotherapy, radiotherapy, nor chemo-radiotherapy has a
survival advantage when administered post-operatively.
• Neoadjuvant (i.e. preoperative) chemotherapy is easier to deliver and
can treat micrometastatic disease.
• The UK MRC OE02 study (MRC 2002) (n = 802 patients)
demonstrated a significantly greater OS for patients who received two
courses of preoperative chemotherapy with cisplatin (80mg/m2 on
day 1) and fluorouracil (1mg/m2 by continuous infusion (days 1–4)) at
3wk intervals, compared with surgery alone.
• The median survival was significantly improved with preoperative
chemotherapy (16.8mo), compared with surgery alone (13.3mo).
• There was no increase in perioperative morbidity and mortality in
patients treated with preoperative chemotherapy.
• Further evidence to support the use of preoperative chemotherapy
comes from the MRC MAGIC trial (see E Adjuvant/neoadjuvant
therapy, p. 327; Cunningham (2006)). Although initially a study in
gastric cancer patients, the study was subsequently extended to include
patients with GOJ tumours (15% of the total) and lower oesophageal
adenocarcinomas (11%).

321

322

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

• A number of other studies have not demonstrated a benefit from
neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with oesophageal cancer.
However, based on the MRC OE2 and MRC MAGIC studies,
preoperative chemotherapy is recognized as standard practice in the UK.
• Some non-randomized studies of chemo-radiation suggest that this
approach may give long-term survival results equivalent to surgical
treatments and may be an alternative approach for patients with SCCs
or for patients who are unfit for surgery.
• However, there have been no trials comparing surgery, with or without
preoperative treatment, with chemo-radiation alone in operable disease.

Locally advanced disease
• Surgical resection of the oesophagus for palliation should be avoided.
Likewise, there is no real role for tumour bypass surgery.
• Treatment of dysphagia in the palliative setting is usually achieved by
dilatation of the malignant stricture and stent insertion. This leads to a
rapid resolution of symptoms and provides the patient the opportunity
to eat again, although semi-solid diets are advised. The majority of
stents now used consist of a metallic mesh. Complications of stenting
include migration, perforation, occlusion, and tumour overgrowth.
• Other palliative therapies include laser ablation and alcohol injection.
Complications of the former include perforation (0–5%) and TOF
(0–5%). Complications are fewer with alcohol injection, but TF with
mediastinitis is seen in up to 2% of cases. Photodymanic therapy is
another option. However, availability is limited.
• Combined modality approaches incorporating cisplatin-based
chemotherapy, in addition to radiation, is superior to radiotherapy alone
for patients with locally advanced oesophageal cancer.
• Combined modality treatment results in a significantly better median
survival (14mo), compared with radiotherapy alone (9.3mo), and
a significantly better 5y survival (26% versus 0%). However, such
combined modality therapy does carry significant morbidity and is
not suitable for all patients. This is another example when the MDT
approach is important.

Metastatic disease
• Many patients have metastatic disease at presentation or develop
metastases after treatment for localized disease.
• The combination of cisplatin and a fluoropyrimidine (either fluorouracil
or capecitabine) is one of the most commonly used regimens for
advanced disease.
•	Epirubicin, in addition to cisplatin and a fluoropyrimidine, has been the
standard in the UK for adenocarcinomas of the oesophagus or GOJ.
• The oral fluorouracil prodrug capecitabine and oxaliplatin are the
standard agents used for patients with adenocarcinomas, in combination
with epirubicin, in the UK, based on the results of a large randomized
clinical trial (see E Metastatic disease, p. 327).
• Trastuzumab is used in combination with cisplatin and a fluoropyrimidine
in patients with HER2-positive adenocarcinomas of the GOJ (see
E Metastatic disease, p. 328).

Oesophageal

Further reading
Allum WH, Blazeby JM, Griffin SM, Cunningham D, Jankowski JA, Wong R; Association of Upper
Gastrointestinal Surgeons of Great Britain and Ireland, the British Society of Gastroenterology
and the British Association of Surgical Oncology (2011). Guidelines for the management of
oesophageal and gastric cancer. Gut 60, 1449–72
Cancer Research UK (2013). Oesophageal cancer statistics. Available at: M http://www.cancerresearchuk.org/cancer-info/cancerstats/types/oesophagus
Cunningham D, Allum WH, Stenning SP, et al. (2006). Perioperative chemotherapy versus surgery
alone for resectable gastroesophageal cancer. N Engl J Med 355,11–20.
Hardwick RH; the Association of Upper Gastrointestinal Surgeons (AUGIS) and the Association of
Laparoscopic Surgeons of Great Britain & Ireland (ALS) (2009). A consensus view and recommendations on the development and practice of minimally invasive oesophagectomy. Available
at: M http://www.alsgbi.org/pdf/Augis_Brochure.pdf.
Herskovic A, Martz K, al-Sarraf M, et al. (1992). Combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy compared with radiotherapy alone in patients with cancer of the esophagus. N Engl J Med 326, 1593–8.
Mapstone NP (2011). Standards and datasets for reporting cancers. Dataset for the histopathological
reporting of oesophageal carcinoma, 2nd edn. London: Royal College of Pathologists, pp. 1-15.
Medical Research Council Oesophageal Cancer Working Group (2002). Surgical resection with or
without preoperative chemotherapy in oesophageal cancer: a randomised controlled trial. Lancet
359, 1727–33.
National Oesophago-Gastric Cancer Audit (2010). Third annual report. London: The NHS
Information Centre, pp. 1–69.
Omloo JM, Lagarde SM, Hulscher JB, et al. (2007). Extended transthoracic resection compared with
limited transhiatal resection for adenocarcinoma of the mid/distal esophagus: five-year survival of
a randomized clinical trial. Ann Surg 246, 992–1000.
Siewert JR, Feith M, Werner M, Stein HJ (2000). Adenocarcinoma of the esophagogastric junction: results of surgical therapy based on anatomical/topographic classification in 1,002 consecutive patients. Ann Surg 232, 353–61.

323

324

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Gastric
Epidemiology
• Now the fourth commonest cancer worldwide, having ranked first in
the mid 1970s.
• There is a ♂ predominance of 72.2:1.
• The incidence increases with age and peaks in the eighth decade. Only
8% aged <55y.
• Highest rates are seen in Eastern Asia, Eastern Europe, and South America.
• The incidence varies considerably globally, with an 11-fold variation
for ♀ and a 9-fold difference between the highest and lowest
incidence for ♂.
• In the UK, it is the ninth commonest malignancy in ♂ and 14th in ♀.
• There has been a 32% reduction in incidence of the past decade in ♂
and a 28% fall in ♀.
• Despite an overall fall in the incidence of gastric cancer, the incidence of
carcinomas of the cardia, as with oesophageal junctional tumours, has
risen significantly.
•	Remains the second commonest cause of cancer death worldwide, and
seventh in the UK, accounting for 3% of cancer deaths.

Aetiology
• The wide global variation in stomach cancer suggests environmental
factors exert a strong effect.
• In the UK, 78% of ♂ and 69% of ♀ stomach cancers were linked to
lifestyle or environmental factors.
• Helicobacter (H.) pylori infection is associated with a 3-8 fold increased
incidence of gastric cancer. H. pylori eradication has been shown to
reduce the risk of gastric carcinoma.
• Other significant environmental factors increasing the risk of stomach
cancer include smoking, diet (eating of pickled or salt-preserved foods,
low consumption of fruit and vegetables), heavy alcohol consumption,
occupational (rubber industry), and a low socio-economic status.
• Other risk factors include reduced gastric acid production (pernicious
anaemia, previous gastric surgery), infection with EBV, blood group A,
and radiation exposure.
• Tumours of the cardia are associated with gastro-oesophageal reflux
disease (GORD) and obesity.
• In a small proportion of patients (1–3%), there is an inherited germline
inactivating mutation of the E-cadherin gene CDH-1. Also there is an
increased risk for individuals with BRCA2, but not BRCA1, mutations.
Also associated with Li–Fraumeni, FAP, HNPCC, and Peutz–Jeghers
syndromes.

Pathology
• The majority of gastric tumours (>90%) are adenocarcinomas, which
are further divided into intestinal and diffuse types (Lauren classification).
• The intestinal type usually arises in association with a precancerous
condition such as gastric atrophy or intestinal metaplasia. It is more
common in men, and its incidence increases with age. This is the

Gastric

dominant form in areas where gastric cancer is high. Lesions are usually
well differentiated, occur in the distal stomach, and exhibit blood-borne
metastases.
• The diffuse type of gastric carcinoma is usually poorly differentiated
and is usually composed of signet rings. It is more common in younger
patients and in ♀. The tumour spreads submucosally and disseminates
via the lymphatic system. It is associated with blood group A and occurs
in families, suggesting a genetic component to the aetiology.
• Other histopathologies include SCC, carcinoid, GIST, and lymphoma.

Presentation
• Symptoms of gastric cancer are non-specific, especially in early disease,
with dyspepsia being the most common symptom reported.
• In more advanced disease, weight loss, anorexia, early satiety, or
vomiting.
• Junctional tumours may lead to dysphagia and odynophagia.
• There are no signs in early tumours, but, in more advanced, palpable
mass, supraclavicular lymphadenopathy (Virchow’s node), periumbilical
mass (Sister Joseph’s nodule), ascites, and jaundice. A succussion splash
may be detected in cases where gastric outlet obstruction is present.

Investigation
• The BSG have specific guidelines for the referral of patients with
suspected gastric cancer for endoscopy and biopsy.
• All patients aged over 55y with recent-onset dyspepsia.
• Any patient with dyspepsia in combination with an alarm symptom
(weight loss, anaemia, anorexia), regardless of age.
• Dyspepsia in combination with—family history in >1 relative; Barrett’s
oesophagus; pernicious anaemia; gastric surgery >20y ago; known
dysplasia, atrophic gastritis, or intestinal metaplasia; jaundice; upper
abdominal mass.
•	Endoscopy allows documentation of the site and size of the lesion.
Multiple biopsies (>6) should be performed from the ulcer edge, not
the crater.
• A CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis is required to assess
distant metastases.
•	EUS is used, if required, to evaluate the depth of invasion and
lymph nodes.
• PET-CT is used selectively to evaluate for distant metastases if the
findings of CT are uncertain.
• Laparoscopy is used pre-resection in most patients with gastric cancer
to examine for peritoneal disease, and it alters management in up to
30% of patients, based on CT/EUS findings. Peritoneal washings are also
obtained and sent for cytological analysis. In patients with symptomatic
cancers, laparoscopy may be omitted if the tumour is to be resected,
regardless of the findings.

Staging
The staging of gastric carcinoma follows the TNM system (see M https://
cancerstaging.org to download the TNM staging).

325

326

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Treatment
Potentially curable disease
• Surgery is the ° treatment modality for gastric carcinoma.
•	Early cancers (T1a mucosal and T1b submucosal) may be treated by
endoscopic mucosal resection.
• 750% of patients have resectable disease at presentation, but only half
of these will undergo curative (R0) resections.
• The choice of operation is dependent on the tumour location, with a
total gastrectomy the procedure of choice for proximal tumours, and a
subtotal gastrectomy for distal tumours.
• The resection margins should be at least 5cm from the nearest tumour
focus. The proximal resection margin should be at least 10cm clear of
the macroscopic tumour, and the distal 5cm or more.
• The extent of lymphadenectomy is controversial. Non-randomized
series from Japan have shown that extended lymphadenectomy (D2
resection) improves DFS in selected patients, compared to historical
controls. Both the MRC and Dutch randomized controlled studies failed
to demonstrate any benefit for D2 dissection, compared with limited
dissection (D1). Differences are believed to be related to the different
types of cancer seen.
• Minimally invasive gastric resections can be performed safely, with
meta-analyses suggesting an equivalent oncological outcome, but with a
lower morbidity. The majority of studies so far have been performed in
the Far East, and confirmation in Western series is awaited.
• Following a total gastrectomy, continuity is restored by means of a
Roux-en-Y reconstruction. A number of options are available for
reconstruction following a subtotal gastrectomy, including Billroth II or
Roux-en-Y.
• For carcinomas limited to the mucosa, the 5y survival is >95%, and
>75% for disease extending into the submucosa. The OS for gastric
carcinoma post-resection is around 42%.
• A number of complications are observed following gastrectomy.
Important operation-specific early complications include bleeding
(often short gastric vessel or splenic tear) and an anastomotic leak
(usually after day 5). Important late complications include dumping
syndrome (early or late—due to large volumes of high-osmolarity food
entering the small bowel), anaemia (iron deficiency, folate deficiency,
B12 deficiency—lack of intrinsic factor), impaired fat absorption,
osteoporosis or osteomalacia, afferent loop syndrome after Billroth II
gastrectomy or gastrojejunostomy (due to non-draining afferent loop),
and reflux gastritis (following Billroth II).
•	Enhanced recovery programmes help to reduce complication rates.
Adjuvant/neoadjuvant therapy
• Several adjuvant chemotherapy studies have used a number of
regimens, and only one small study has shown an improved survival.
A meta-analysis of over 2000 patients treated in adjuvant chemotherapy
trials concluded that there was no survival benefit.
• Post-operative radiation, combined with concurrent fluorouracil-based
chemotherapy, can improve the 3y OS rate (50%), compared with

Gastric

surgery alone (41%). However, 54% of patients in this study had less
than a D1 dissection, and <10% had a D2 dissection.
• The standard of care in the UK is perioperative ECF/ECX
chemotherapy, based on the results of the MRC MAGIC study.
Patients were randomized to either standard surgery alone, or
surgery with three cycles of ECF (epirubicin, cisplatin, and continuous
infusional fluorouracil preoperatively), with a further three cycles
post-operatively. Perioperative chemotherapy yielded a statistically
significant improvement in PFS and OS (5y survival of 36% versus
23%). The infusional fluorouracil is now usually replaced by the oral
fluoropyrimidine capecitabine (ECX).

Locally advanced disease
• For patients with advanced disease, surgical intervention is sometimes
appropriate to relieve symptoms.
• Patients with gastric obstruction, not suitable for resection, can be
palliated by means of endoscopic dilatation in the first instance. Some
gastric lesions can be stented but displace more frequently than when
used for oesophageal cancer.
• Patients with bleeding tumours may have the haemorrhage controlled
endoscopically (injection of epinephrine, diathermy, heat probe, argon,
clipping). If this fails, the bleeding may be addressed at laparotomy by
oversewing or a palliative resection.

Metastatic disease
• Numerous single-agent and combination chemotherapy regimens have
activity in advanced gastric cancer.
• Combination chemotherapy regimens can improve survival in advanced
disease, compared with best supportive care.
• The ECF regimen was developed in the UK and has a superior objective
response rate (45% versus 21%), median survival (8.9mo versus 5.7mo),
and 1y survival (36% versus 21%), compared with FAMTX, which was
one of the previously used standard regimens.
• A randomized trial in the UK has compared four regimens in advanced
gastric cancer in a 2 × 2 design—comparing infusional fluorouracil
with the oral fluoropyrimidine pro-drug capecitabine, and comparing
oxaliplatin with cisplatin. Capecitabine was equivalent to infusional
fluorouracil, but with the added convenience of oral therapy, thereby
removing the requirement for insertion of central venous catheters.
Consequently, capecitabine has now replaced infusional fluorouracil in
combination chemotherapy regimens in the UK. The combination of
epirubicin, oxaliplatin, and capecitabine gave a further improvement in
OS, and consequently oxaliplatin is invariably used, instead of cisplatin,
in the UK.
• Other agents with activity in advanced gastric cancer include irinotecan
and the taxanes (e.g. docetaxel).
• The addition of docetaxel to cisplatin and fluorouracil improves the OS,
compared with cisplatin and fluorouracil. However, this regimen is also
associated with a significant increase in toxicity.

327

328

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

• Docetaxel results in a statistically significant modest improvement in
the OS, compared with supportive care alone, when administered
as second-line therapy after previous platinum/fluoropyrimidine
chemotherapy.
• The addition of trastuzumab to a cisplatin–fluoropyrimidine
chemotherapy backbone further improves the OS to beyond 1y in
patients with HER2-positive tumours.

Further reading
Allum WH, Blazeby JM, Griffin SM, Cunningham D, Jankowski JA, Wong R; Association of Upper
Gastrointestinal Surgeons of Great Britain and Ireland, the British Society of Gastroenterology
and the British Association of Surgical Oncology (2011). Guidelines for the management of
oesophageal and gastric cancer. Gut 60, 1449–72.
Bang YJ, van Cutsem E, Feyereislova A, et al. (2010). Trastuzumab in combination with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone for treatment of HER2-positive advanced gastric or
gastro-oesophageal junction cancer (ToGA): a phase 3, open-label, randomised controlled trial.
Lancet 376, 687–97.
Cancer Research UK (2013). Stomach cancer statistics. Available at: M http://www.cancerresearchuk.org/cancer-info/cancerstats/types/stomach.
Cunningham D, Allum W, Stenning S, et al. (2006). Perioperative chemotherapy versus surgery alone
for resectable gastroesophageal cancer. N Engl J Med 355, 11–20.
Cunningham D, Starling N, Rao S, et al. (2008). Capecitabine and oxaliplatin for advanced esophagogastric cancer. N Engl J Med 358, 36–46.
Fuccio L, Zagari RM, Eusebi LH, et al. (2009). Meta-analysis: can Helicobacter pylori eradication
treatment reduce the risk of gastric cancer? Ann Intern Med 151, 121–8.
MacDonald JS, Smalley SR, Benedetti J, et al. (2001). Chemoradiotherapy after surgery compared
with surgery alone for adenocarcinoma of the stomach or gastroesophageal junction. N Engl J
Med 345, 725–30.
Parkin DM, Boyd L, Walker LC (2011). The fraction of cancer attributable to lifestyle and environmental factors in the UK in 2010. Br J Cancer 105 (Suppl 2), S77–81.
Webb A, Cunningham D, Scarffe H, et al. (1997). Randomised trial comparing epirubicin, cisplatin
and fluorouracil versus fluorouracil, doxorubicin and methotrexate in advanced oesophagogastric
cancer. J Clin Oncol 15, 261–7.

Gastric

329

330

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Small intestinal
Epidemiology
•	Rare, accounting for 71–2% of all GI tumours.
• The overall UK incidence for small intestinal malignant tumours is 5–9
per million population.
• 765% of all small bowel tumours are malignant.
• The commonest lesions are adenocarcinoma (45%), neuroendocrine
(30%), and lymphoma (15%). Others include GI stromal tumours,
leiomyosarcoma, and 2° tumours (melanoma, colonic, ovarian, cervical,
lung, breast, and kidney).
Adenocarcinomas
• Typically occur in patients aged 50–70y.
• Commoner in ♂.
• They are most commonly seen in the duodenum (50%), the majority
being periampullary, with 30% in the jejunum and 20% in the ileum.
• Those associated with Crohn’s disease are usually ileal in location.
• Adenocarcinomas have also been reported in long-standing ileostomies
and ileal conduits.
Neuroendocrine
• Neuroendocrine tumours are a family of neoplasms. Those arising from
the small bowel are most frequently carcinoid tumours and have a peak
incidence similar to that of adenocarcinomas but are more common
in ♀. Other neuroendocrine tumours arising in the small bowel may
produce GI hormones.
• There is a ♂ predominance, with a gender ratio of 1.5:1, and a mean
age at presentation of 60y. Gastrin-producing tumours occur at a mean
age of 45y and are slightly more frequent in men.
• 40% of GI carcinoids arise from the jejunum or ileum and are second
only to the appendix in frequency. Duodenal carcinoids are uncommon.
• 720% of all GI functional neuroendocrine tumours arise in the
duodenum, and only 1% in the jejunum/ileum. Gastrin-secreting
tumours are the most common (62%).
• The incidence is on the rise, increasing 3–5-fold over the past 35y.
Lymphomas
• Lymphomas are seen in patients aged 60–70y, with a slight ♂
preponderance.
• Account for 25% of GI lymphomas.
• Predominantly NHL, with B-cell much commoner than T-cell lymphomas.
• May be ° small bowel or 2° from systemic lymphoma.
• ° lymphomas are commoner in patients of Eastern European or
Mediterranean origin. They differ from 2° lymphomas in that there is no
splenic/hepatic involvement, the white cell count is normal, and there is
no extra-abdominal lymphadenopathy (Dawson’s criteria).

Aetiology
Adenocarcinomas
• The aetiology is poorly understood, but a low incidence, compared
to colon cancer, is believed to be due to a combination of protection

Small intestinal

provided by the lymphoid tissue and IgA, a lower bacterial load, more
rapid transit time, less mucosal irritation from liquid stool, alkaline
content, and higher concentration of detoxifying enzymes.
•	Risk factors for adenocarcinomas include low-fibre and high-fat diet,
smoking, and alcohol.
• Increased risk associated with Peutz–Jeghers syndrome, Crohn’s disease
(86-fold risk), coeliac disease, Gardener’s syndrome, FAP, juvenile
polyposis, and HNPCC. Also higher risk of ileal tumours in cystic fibrosis.
Neuroendocrine
• A proportion of neuroendocrine tumours have a genetic aetiology, as
they are seen in 10% of patients with MEN type 1 and also individuals
with neurofibromatosis type 1.
Lymphomas
• A number of predisposing factors related to immune dysfunction.
• Immunodeficiency syndromes—Wiskott–Aldrich; severe combined
immunodeficiency syndrome; and X-linked agammaglobulinaemia.
• Autoimmune disease—rheumatoid arthritis; systemic lupus
erythematosus (SLE); Sjögren’s syndrome; Wegener’s granulomatosis.
• Iatrogenic—immunosuppressive therapy; chemotherapy.
• Infections—HIV, EBV.
• GI disorders—Crohn’s disease; coeliac disease.
• T-cell lymphomas are usually jejunal and associated with coeliac disease.

Pathology
Adenocarcinoma
• Believed to arise from adenocarcinomas in an adenoma–carcinoma
sequence.
• Ki-ras mutations are seen in half of the tumours, mainly those of
duodenal origin, whereas APC gene mutations are uncommon.
• 60% are well or moderately differentiated, whilst the remainder is
poorly differentiated.
• Duodenal tumours tend to be polypoid, whilst jejunal and ileal tumours
are larger and annular.
• Patients with a ° small bowel carcinoma should be monitored for
the development of a second malignant tumour, most commonly in
the colon.
• Genetic link, as patients with HNPCC have a 4% lifetime risk for
adenocarcinoma, this being 100-fold that of the general population. One
in 40 patients with Peutz–Jeghers syndrome develops cancers.
Neuroendocrine
• Arise from enterochromaffin cells, most commonly seen in the
submucosa.
• The malignant nature of a carcinoid tumour is based on the lymph node
status and the presence of metastases, not on the ° lesion.
• The malignant potential is based on the size and site of the °, with
tumours that have metastasized invariably being >2cm in diameter.
• An intense desmoplastic reaction is frequently seen around the °
tumour, and this can lead to small bowel obstruction itself, as well as the
tumour occluding the lumen.

331

332

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

• The ‘carcinoid syndrome’ arises when a well-differentiated
carcinoid tumour metastasizes to the liver and secretes vasoactive
amines (histamine, 5-HT, 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), and
5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA)) that reach the systemic circulation
via the hepatic veins. Occurs in up to 10% of patients.
• Clinical manifestations of the carcinoid syndrome, including flushing,
diarrhoea, bronchial constriction, and right-sided valvular heart disease.
• Up to a third have a synchronous non-carcinoid GI ° tumour.
Lymphoma
•	Extra-nodal marginal zone B-cell lymphomas (previously known as
MALTomas) arise from mucosa-associated lymphatic tissue that is
particularly rich in the distal ileum.
• Mantle cell lymphomas are more aggressive, present as multiple fleshy
nodules, and are seen throughout the small bowel. Early nodal and
metastatic spread is common.
• T-cell lymphomas are usually jejunal and associated with coeliac disease.

Presentation
• The overall presentation of small intestinal tumours is variable, the
commonest symptoms being pain (65%) and anorexia and weight loss
(50%). A quarter of patients will have a palpable mass.
• Modes of presentation include obstruction (25%), perforation (10%),
and bleeding/anaemia (10%).
Adenocarcinomas
• Pain is the commonest presenting feature, followed by obstruction,
bleeding, and anaemia.
• Duodenal tumours may present with biliary obstruction or bleeding/
anaemia, but pain due to obstruction is uncommon.
Neuroendocrine
• The presentation of carcinoid is usually either early with vague pain,
anorexia, and weight loss, or late with carcinoid syndrome; 15% develop
bowel obstruction.
• More proximal tumours are more likely to be incidental findings or
associated with symptoms due to hormone production; the commonest
is related to gastrin hypersecretion (Zollinger–Ellison syndrome), leading
to refractory peptic ulcer disease. Duodenal tumours may also present
with jaundice. Ileal tumours are more likely to present with obstruction
or carcinoid syndrome.
Lymphomas
• ° lymphomas present with colicky pain, symptoms and signs of
obstruction, or GI bleeding.
• 2° lymphomas more typically report systemic symptoms such as weight
loss, anorexia, and night sweats, although these may also be observed in
° lymphomas.

Diagnosis
• Small bowel follow-through is the usual ° investigation and identifies
up to 65% of lesions, including mass lesions, mucosal defects, and
intussusception.

Small intestinal

•	Enteroscopy is a useful second-line investigation, in particular, for
tumours presenting with bleeding. There are several options, including
capsule endoscopy, push enteroscopy, and double balloon enteroscopy.
Enteroscopy has the advantage of providing biopsies and allows for
therapeutic intervention. However, push enteroscopy is limited to the
first 60cm of the jejunum. Capsule endoscopy allows inspection of the
entire small bowel, but it is a time-consuming investigation and cannot
be used in cases of suspected obstruction.
• CT scanning of the abdomen and pelvis detects mass lesions and also
allows assessment of the liver and peritoneum for metastatic disease.
For known malignancies, a chest CT scan should also be requested.
Carcinoid tumours usually enhance avidly with contrast.
• MRI imaging is preferred by some units for the evaluation of the bowel
and also the assessment of liver metastases.
• PET-CT scanning is useful for the staging of lymphomas in particular.
• Patients with suspected carcinoid tumours should have blood
chromogranin A levels measured and a 24h urine collection obtained for
the determination of 5-HIAA levels. Somatostatin receptor scintigraphy,
using radiolabelled octreotide, is also of use, as 90% of carcinoids
express somatostatin receptor subtype 2.
• When a carcinoid tumour is diagnosed, consideration should be given to
the presence of other familial tumours associated with MEN type 1 and
screening guidelines followed (see Chapter 18).

Staging
• The staging of small bowel carcinoma follows the TNM system (see M
https://cancerstaging.org to download the TNM staging).
• There is no uniformly accepted staging and grading system for
neuroendocrine tumours. The two most commonly used are the
American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the WHO systems.
• The TNM staging of small bowel neuroendocrine tumours can be
downloaded from M https://cancerstaging.org.
• The WHO guidelines divide tumours into well differentiated (grades
1 and 2) and poorly differentiated (grade 3), with G1/2 tumours
being known as carcinoids and G3 as neuroendocrine carcinomas (see
Table 17.2).
• The staging of small bowel lymphomas follows the Ann Arbor system
(see Table 24.8).
Table 17.2 WHO grading of neuroendocrine tumours
Low (G1)

<2 mitoses/10 HPF and ≤2% Ki-67 index

Intermediate (G2)

2–20 mitoses/10 HPF and 3–20% Ki-67 index

High (G3)

>20 mitoses/HPF and >20% Ki-67 index

HPF, high-powered field; Ki-67, proliferation index.
Reproduced from Rindi G, Arnold R, Bosman FT et al. (2010) Nomenclature and classification
of neuroendocrine neoplasms of the digestive system. In Bosman FT, Hruban RH, Theise ND
(eds), WHO classification of tumours of the digestive system. Lyon: IARC; 13–14, with permission
from WHO.

333

334

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Treatment
Adenocarcinoma
Potentially curable disease: surgical resection
• The treatment of choice for operable small bowel tumours, and
70–80% are resectable at presentation.
• For lesions of the proximal duodenum, a pancreatoduodenectomy is
required, but, for the remainder of the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum,
segmental resection is usually possible. For distal ileal lesions, a right
hemicolectomy is often appropriate.
• Adjuvant/neoadjuvant therapy.
• The 5y survival of small bowel adenocarcinoma ranges from 65% for
duodenal, jejunal, and proximal ileal tumours to 30% for distal ileal cancers.
Locally advanced and metastatic disease
• Palliative resection is sometimes worthwhile for locally advanced or
metastatic tumours that are obstructing or bleeding.
• Palliative chemotherapy regimens are similar to those used to palliate
advanced colon cancer.
Neuroendocrine
Potentially curable disease
•	Resection, where possible; however, metastases are common at
presentation, even when ° tumours are small.
• Small bowel carcinoids are frequently multifocal, and so a careful
assessment of the whole bowel is required at laparotomy.
• The segment of the bowel should be excised with a good margin, and
lymph nodes draining the excised segment should be removed en bloc.
• There is a benefit in resecting the ° tumour, even in the presence of
metastatic disease. However, if the carcinoid syndrome is present, then
the patient should ideally receive octreotide (200 micrograms tds s/c),
together with hydration and careful electrolyte management, to prevent
a carcinoid crisis prior to surgical intervention. If a crisis does arise,
it must be treated immediately with IV octreotide (300 micrograms),
followed by an infusion of 50–100 micrograms/h.
• The 5y survival for neuroendocrine tumours of the small bowel is in the
order of 60–75%.
Adjuvant/neoadjuvant therapy
• Somatostatin analogues are effective in controlling symptoms in patients
with the carcinoid syndrome, in particular diarrhoea and flushing, with a
reduction in biochemical markers in up to 40% of patients, stabilization
of tumour growth in 724–57% of patients, but with partial or complete
tumour responses in <10% of patients. They block all GI hormones and
so reduce the transit time and intestinal secretions, thus predisposing
patients to malabsorption and gallstone formation. Doses commence
at 50 micrograms tds and can increase to 500 micrograms tds. Depot
preparations are available, once the symptoms are controlled.
• Interferon alfa is used in patients with symptoms, despite maximal
somatostatin analogue therapy. Results are variable, with symptom
control in 750%, but low tumour response rates.

Small intestinal

• Combination chemotherapy (one or more of streptozotocin,
fluorouracil, doxorubicin carboplatin, paclitaxel, and topotecan)
regimens are usually favoured for the management of faster-growing
disease, and aggressive and atypical carcinoid tumours, but evidence for
such therapy is limited.
• Both bevacizumab (VEGF inhibitor) and sunitinib (TKI) can improve PFS
and OS in patients with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours, compared
to supportive care, but, so far, there have been no studies for small
bowel carcinoids.
Locally advanced and metastatic disease
• Liver metastases may be suitable for resection in a small percentage of
patients.
• Lesions not suitable for resection can be treated by means of RFA, with
open/laparoscopic or percutaneous techniques.
• Liver transplantation can be considered for patients with liver-limited
high-burden disease.
• Hepatic artery embolization may be used to palliate painful, refractory
liver metastases.
Lymphoma
• The treatment of lymphoma depends on the subtype and stage.
• Marginal—stage I disease often responds to H. pylori irradiation therapy.
Stage II lymphoma is treated by means of resection and post-operative
chemotherapy (see E Management, p. 588). Stages III and IV disease is
treated by means of combination chemotherapy.
• Mantle—combination chemotherapy, including rituximab, is the mainstay
of treatment. Surgery is considered in diffuse disease because of risk of
perforation during chemotherapy. Bone marrow transplantation may be
considered in younger patients.
• The 5y survival for small bowel lymphoma is in the order of 25% but
varies according to subtype.

Further reading
Anzidei M, Napoli A, Zini C, Kirchin MA, Catalano C, Passariello R (2011). Malignant tumours of
the small intestine: a review of histopathology, multidetector CT and MRI aspects. Br J Radiol
84, 677–90.
Delle Fave G, Kwekkeboom DJ, Van Cutsem E, et al. (2012). ENETS Consensus Guidelines for the
management of patients with gastroduodenal neoplasms. Neuroendocrinology 95, 74–87.
Ghimire P, Wu GY, Zhu L (2011). Primary gastrointestinal lymphoma. World J Gastroenterol 17,
697–707.
International Agency for Research on Cancer. Tumours of the small intestine. Available at: M http://
www.iarc.fr/en/publications/pdfs-online/pat-gen/bb2/bb2-chap4.pdf.
Öberg K, Knigge U, Kwekkeboom D, Perren A; ESMO Guidelines Working Group (2012).
Neuroendocrine gastro-entero-pancreatic tumors: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol 23 (Suppl 7), 124–30.
Rindi G, Arnold R, Bosman FT, et al. (2010). Nomenclature and classification of neuroendocrine
neoplasms of the digestive system. In: Bosman FT, Hruban RH, Theise ND, eds. WHO classification
of tumours of the digestive system. Lyon: International Agency for Research on Cancer, pp. 13–14.
Strosberg J (2012). Neuroendocrine tumours of the small intestine. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol
26, 755–73.
Yao J, Hassan M, Phan A, et al. (2008). One hundred years after ‘carcinoid’: epidemiology of and
prognostic factors for neuroendocrine tumors in 35,825 cases in the United States. J Clin Oncol
26, 3063–72.

335

336

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Hepatic
The two commonest ° hepatic tumours are HCC and intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, accounting for 75% and 20% of ° tumours, respectively, in
the UK. HCCs will be discussed in this section, and cholangiocarcinomas in
E Biliary tract, p. 376. Liver metastases, the commonest indication for liver
resection in Western countries, are also considered in this section.

Hepatocellular carcinoma
Epidemiology
• The fifth commonest cancer worldwide, with >600 000 cases diagnosed
annually, and the third commonest cause of cancer deaths.
• The gender ratio in the UK is 5:3, but, in high incidence areas, the ♂:♀
ratio is as high as 7:1.
• Presents in the sixth decade of life in the Western world, with 70% of
cases in the UK aged 65y or older. In high incidence regions, HCCs are
frequently seen in the 20–50y age range.
• In the UK, the incidence and mortality rates are similar, with roughly
4000 registrations and deaths annually.
• There is marked geographical variation, with the highest incidence (over
100 cases per 100 000 people) in parts of Southern Africa and Eastern
and South Eastern Asia. In Europe, Greece, Italy, France, and Spain have
the highest incidence rates. More than 80% of cases are in developing
countries.
• The incidence is increasing in the UK, Europe, and North America, with
a 3-fold rise due to the rising incidence of HBV and HCV, and increased
alcohol consumption. HCCs developing on a background of fatty liver
disease are likely to be responsible for the next spike in incidence in
Western populations.
Aetiology
• >90% of cases arise in patients with chronic liver disease or cirrhosis.
The risk is greatest with viral and alcohol-related cirrhosis, but also for
cirrhosis of other aetiologies, including ° biliary cirrhosis (6× risk).
• HBV and HCV account for 85% of HCC cases worldwide.
• HBV is associated with a 100-fold risk of HCC, with an annual risk
for the development of HCC in HBV-related cirrhosis of 3–8%.
Nationwide, vaccination of infants in Taiwan in the 1980s reduced the
prevalence of HBV carriers in childhood from 15% to 1% and reduced
the incidence of HCC by 60%, compared with children who had not
been immunized.
• HCV is the commonest aetiological factor in low prevalence countries,
and the risk is related to the viral load. HCV is associated with a 30-fold
risk for the development of HCC. Overall, up to 30% of HCV patients
develop HCC, with a latency period of 30–50y. The annual risk of HCC
in HCV cirrhosis is 1–7%.
• Ingestion of aflatoxin B1 from Aspergillus flavus fungus, found in mouldy
grain and cereals. Usually seen in high HBV prevalence areas, so may be
acting as a co-carcinogen.

Hepatic

• Alcohol-induced liver disease is associated with a 5-fold risk for heavy
drinkers, and an annual transformation risk of 1–4%. Alcohol also
doubles the risk of HCC in patients with HBV/HCV. HCCs arising in
alcohol liver disease represent 9% of cases in the UK.
• Obesity and the metabolic syndrome are the main risk factors for
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and this, in turn, is associated with
a significant rise in the incidence of HCC in Western populations.
Diabetics have a 68–88% increased risk of HCC, independent of other
risk factors.
• Other liver diseases associated with HCC include haemochromatosis
(7–9% per year), porphyria, alpha-fetoprotein (AFP); Wilson’s disease,
and tyrosinaemia.
• Smoking is believed to be an associated factor in 23% of HCCs in the
UK, with a 50% increased risk, compared to non-smokers.
• Patients with a positive family history have a 150% increased risk
of HCC.
•	Radiation exposure is said to account for 1% of HCCs in the UK.
• Immunosuppression, both HIV (5× risk) and iatrogenic with
post-transplant immunosuppression (2× risk).
• 5% of hepatic adenomas undergo malignant transformation, with the
risk greatest for adenomas >5cm in size. Adenomas, in turn, are linked
to use of the oral contraceptive pill and anabolic steroids.
• There appears to be a genetic component, as HCC is linked to several
rare inherited hepatic disorders—haemochromatosis (7–9% per
year), type 1 glycogen storage disease (in pre-existing adenomas),
α-1 antitrypsin deficiency (♂ homozygotes), hereditary tyrosinaemia
(18–35% of patients), hypercitrullinaemia (14% of patients), porphyria
cutanea tarda (7–47% of patients), Wilson’s disease, hereditary
haemorrhagic telangiectasia, ataxia–telangiectasia, intrahepatic biliary
atresia, congenital hepatic fibrosis, and Byler’s syndrome.
Pathology
• Tumours are described according to whether they are unifocal
or multifocal. Genetic analyses have shown the independent
development of multifocal nodules, such that they do not represent
intrahepatic metastases. Multicentric HCCs are usually small, have a
well-dfifferentiated periphery, but varying pathology. They have a high
rate of local recurrence, even after curative resection.
• Most HCCs associated with cirrhosis show an expansile growth pattern
with a fibrous capsule and intra-tumoral septae, whereas those in
non-cirrhotic livers do not usually have a capsule and are generally
larger at presentation. Haemorrhage and necrosis are commonly seen
within HCCs.
• The tumour cells resemble hepatocytes, and the stroma is composed
of sinusoid-like blood spaces, lined by endothelial cells. Microscopically,
several different architectural patterns are observed: trabecular—most
common in well- and moderately differentiated HCCs; pseudoglandular,
also common; compact, appears solid; and scirrhous, rare.
• The degree of differentiation has prognostic importance; 40% of
tumours of 1–3cm have two or more grades, with the lesser degree of

337

338

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

differentiation centrally surrounded by a better grade peripherally. The
percentage of well-differentiated HCCs decreases, as size increases.
• Well—usually <2cm, minimal atypia, an increased
nuclear:cytoplasmic ratio, mainly trabecular or pseudoglandular
pattern, and fat is frequently seen.
• Moderate—usually >3cm, mainly trabecular or pseudoglandular,
but sometimes a solid pattern, abundant eosinophillic cytoplasm and
large round nucleoli with distinct nucleoli, and bile often seen.
• Poor—solid or scirrhous pattern, no distinct sinusoid-like
blood spaces, increased nuclear:cytoplasmic ratio, prominent
polymorphism, and giant cells.
• Tumour progression occurs through a number of mechanisms—local
expansion and compression of surrounding structures, intrahepatic
metastases, vascular invasion to the portal veins (35–80%) or hepatic
veins (20%), and via the biliary tree (5%). Distant metastases are not
uncommon, with sites including the lungs, lymph nodes, and bone.
• The carcinogenesis of HCC is not completely understood. However,
it is clear there a progression from a normal liver through cirrhosis to
dysplastic nodules and then HCC. The pathogenesis of HCC includes
at least four distinct genetic processes: oncogene activation (myc,
K-ras, BRAF); tumour suppressor inactivation (p53, Rb), reactivation of
developmental pathways (Wnt, hedgehog) and growth factors and their
receptors (TGFα, IGF receptor). It appears as though oxidative stress
and inflammatory processes may be important in triggering these events.
• Fibrolamellar HCC is a rare variant, accounting for 5% of all HCCs. It
typically affects patients at an average age of 25y, without gender bias.
AFP is normal, and radiological imaging reveals a typical central scar. Can
be differentiated from standard HCC, as they stain for CK7 and CD68.
The background liver is not cirrhotic, and so resection is preferred
to transplantation, but either modality may be used. The 5y survival
is >75%.
• Other rare malignant hepatic neoplasms include epithelioid
haemangioendothelioma, lymphoma, angiosarcoma, and hepatocellular
cholangiocarcinoma.
Presentation
• In areas of high HBV prevalence, transmission often follows a vertical
pattern, from mother to child, and hence the need for immunization
programmes to prevent chronic HBV and the development of HCC. In
these areas, patients develop HCCs at a young age, and they are usually
associated with advanced liver disease and decompensation, so rarely
operable.
• In patients with coexisting cirrhosis who are in screening programmes,
the finding of an HCC is often an incidental finding. HCCs are also
incidental findings in transplant specimens. With modern imaging, most
HCCs are detected preoperatively, but unrecognized small tumours are
not uncommon.
• Symptoms of HCCs are vague, in particular on a background of chronic
liver disease. Some degree of abdominal pain is reported by 50–95%
of patients but varies in severity. An acute onset of severe pain may
represent intraperitoneal bleeding due to tumour rupture, this being

Hepatic

the presentation of 10% of HCCs in high prevalence regions. These
patients are often shocked, although bleeding also occurs on a more
chronic basis. Other symptoms include abdominal distension, weight
loss, anorexia, and malaise. Patients also report increased abdominal
swelling and fever. A small number of patients present with variceal
bleeding which is believed to be due to tumour thrombus elevating the
portal pressure. Jaundice is also noted and, in 90% of cases, is due to
parenchymal insufficiency due to extensive tumour infiltration, and most
are dead within 10wk of presentation. In a small percentage, the tumour
may have invaded the biliary tree, there may be haemobilia clotting the
bile duct, or there may be isolated compression of the biliary tree.
• Clinical examination in patients with cirrhosis may reveal ascites and
stigmata of portal hypertension. An abdominal mass may be palpable. In
patients with no known history of liver disease, such findings are more
striking, A caval thrombus may propagate through the hepatic veins
into the inferior vena cava (IVC) and lead to Budd–Chiari syndrome,
with sudden onset of severe pitting oedema. Extra-hepatic metastases
are present in up to 40% of patients at presentation. Osteolytic bone
lesions cause pain as a result of pathological fractures and nerve
compression, whilst lung metastases lead to dyspnoea, cough, and
haemoptysis.
• Paraneoplastic syndromes are seen in around 20% and are present
in 10% at presentation. The two commonest manifestations are
hypoglycaemia and hypercalcaemia.
Investigation
• The American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) and
the European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL) guidelines
are used as a basis for planning treatment. The two are very similar
and vary only on the size for instigating further investigations, the
EASL guidelines (see Fig. 17.1) being a little more conservative. The
UK-specific BSG guidelines are currently being updated.
• Ultrasound scan (USS) is the ° modality for assessing the liver,
and lesions appear as hypo- or hyperechoic nodules. It allows the
documentation of the size, number, and location of lesions present.
It also allows the identification of ascites and portal hypertension.
Contrast-enhanced USS is useful in differentiating benign and malignant
lesions in cirrhotic livers. USS is also used for screening patients at high
risk of HCC.
• Triple-phase CT or MRI with contrast is used to better assess the local
extent of the tumour, including the presence of vascular invasion and
tumour thrombi. On cross-sectional imaging, there are three distinct
patterns—expansile, infiltrating, and multifocal. These modalities
frequently identify additional lesions not seen on USS. They also allow
better assessment for the presence of cirrhosis and portal hypertension.
In addition, cross-sectional imaging documents the presence of
lymphadenopathy and extra-hepatic metastases, including lung and bone
lesions. CT is also used to assess the functional liver remnant (FLR)
and determine if portal vein embolization (PVE) is required prior to
resection (see E Investigation, p. 351).

339

Inconclusive

No

Biopsy

Yes

HCC

1 or 2 positive techniques*:
HCC radiological hallmarks**

HCC

Yes

Biopsy

No

1 positive technique:
HCC radiological hallmarks**

4-phase CT or dynamic
contrast-enhanced MRI

Reproduced from EASL–EORTC Clinical Practice Guidelines: Management of hepatocellular carcinoma, Journal of Hepatology 2012 vol. 56: 4, 908–943, reproduced under Open Access License.

equipment. **HCC radiological hallmark: arterial hypervascularity and venous/late phase washout.

Fig. 17.1 EASL guidelines for the investigation of HCC. *One imaging technique only recommended in centres of excellence with high-end radiological

Investigate
according to size

Stable

4-phase CT/dynamic
contrast-enhanced MRI

Repeat USS at 4mo

>2cm

Chapter 17

Growing/changing
character

1–2cm

<1cm

Mass/nodule on USS

340

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Hepatic

• Identification of HCC on two modalities is usually adequate for
diagnosis, in particular if AFP is elevated, and a histological diagnosis is
not normally required prior to treatment. However, a biopsy may be
carried out on occasions where the radiological diagnosis is in doubt.
• It is important to assess the synthetic function of the liver, as the degree
of impairment of the liver function influences treatment decisions (see
Table 17.3).
• AFP is increased in 40–60% of HCCs. AFP >400ng/mL is likely to
represent HCC, and AFP levels correlate with the tumour stage.
However, a normal AFP does not exclude HCC; indeed, AFP is not
elevated in all patients with HCC and is normal in most patients with the
fibrolamellar variant of HCC.
• Indocyanine green (ICG) clearance is used to provide a functional
assessment of the liver and is the basis of determining suitability for
resection (see Fig. 17.2).
• PVE is used to increase the volume of the FLR prior to resection in
patients with Child–Pugh grade A cirrhosis. If the ICG clearance is
<10%, then PVE is indicated if the FLR is ≤40%. For an ICG clearance of
10–15%, then PVE is indicated for an FLR of ≤50%. ICG is not indicated
for an ICG clearance of >20%.
Staging
• Staging of HCCs is usually performed according to the TNM
classification (see M https://cancerstaging.org to download the TNM
staging). The Cancer of the Liver Italian Program (CLIP), Japanese
integrated score ( JIS), and Okuda scores are also used by some groups.
Table 17.3 Child–Pugh scoring system for degree of hepatic impairment
1

2

3

Encephalopathy (grade)

None

Mild

Marked

Albumin (g/L)

>35

28–35

<28

Ascites

None

Mild

Marked

Prothrombin time prolonged (s)

1–4

4–6

>6

Bilirubin (micromole/L)

<34

34–50

>50

Grade A, <7—good operative risk.
Grade B, 7–9—moderate operative risk.
Grade C, >9—poor operative risk.

341

Enucleation

20%–29%
Segmentectomy

Limited resection

10%–19%

Left-sided hepatectomy
Right-sided sectoriectomy

ICGR15

Normal

Trisectorectomy
bisectorectomy

Reproduced with permission from Professor M. Makuuchi.

Fig. 17.2 Makuuchi schema for determining respectability, based on ICG clearance.

1.6–1.9mg/dL

1.1–1.5mg/dL

Normal

Total bilirubin level

Limited resection

30%–39%

Not indicated for hepatectomy

≥2.0mg/dL

Not controlled

Enucleation

≥40%

Chapter 17

None or controlled

Ascites

342

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Hepatic

343

344

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma
Potentially curable disease
Surgical resection
• 75% of all patients are suitable for curative treatment.
• Liver resection and transplantation are both well-established options
for the curative treatment of HCC, with the decision dependent on the
presence, or not, of concomitant hepatic parenchymal disease and liver
function. More recently, the results of ablation have suggested that this
is a third option for the provision of long-term survival.
• The Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) system is widely used to
determine management (see Fig. 17.3) and is advocated by AASLD and
EASL as a basis for planning treatment. The UK guidelines are currently
awaiting an update but previously followed similar principles.
Liver resection
• The treatment of choice for patients with HCC in the absence of
significant hepatic dysfunction, and so used for Child–Pugh A and B
patients.
• A full work-up, followed by MDT discussion, is critical to ensure that
defined management pathways are followed. Therefore, for HCCs, in
addition to the standard preoperative work-up, the hepatic synthetic
function must be assessed and classified, the FLR calculated on
cross-sectional imaging, and the ICG clearance determined in tailoring
care to the individual patient.
• Details of perioperative considerations and surgical technique are
provided in E Treatment of colorectal liver metastases, p. 352.
• In modern series, the perioperative mortality is 2–3%. Morbidity is
in the order of 40%, increasing as the degree of hepatic insufficiency
increases.
•	Recurrence rates following resection are 780% at 5y, with factors
associated with recurrence, including vascular invasion, tumour grade,
and AFP level.
• Local recurrence may be treated by further resection or ablation.
Liver-limited recurrence within the Milan criteria can be treated by
salvage transplantation, yielding 5y survival of 70%.
Liver transplantation
• Transplantation is the treatment of choice in the presence of cirrhosis.
It has the advantage of removing all HCCs and also potentially
pre-neoplastic nodules. Transplantation also prevents complications
related to end-stage liver disease.
• The main issue with transplantation has been the lack of availability
of cadaveric organs. The increasing utilization of living-related organ
donors has meant that, in such cases, an operation may be planned, with
much shorter waiting times and hence less disease progression.
For patients with HCCs on a waiting list for transplantation, RFA and
trans-arterial chemoembolization (TACE) may be used as bridging
therapies.

Liver transplantation
(CLT/LDLT)

No

RF/PEI

Yes

Sorafenib
Target: 40%
OS: 11mo (6–14)

Target: 20%
OS: 20mo (45–14)

Advanced stage (C)
Portal invastion,
N1, M1, PS 1–2

TACE

Intermediate stage (B)
Multinodular,
PS 0

Target: 10%
OS: <3mo

Best supportive
care

Terminal stage (D)

Reproduced from EASL–EORTC Clinical Practice Guidelines: Management of hepatocellular carcinoma, Journal of Hepatology 2012 vol. 56: 4, 908–943, reproduced under Open Access License.

Fig. 17.3 BCLC schema for the management of HCC.

Curative treatment (30–40%)
Median OS >60mo; 5-yr survival: 40–70%

Resection

Normal

Increased

Associated diseases

3 nodules ≤3cm

Single

Portal pressure/bilirubin

Early stage (A)
Single or 3 nodules ≤3cm
PS 0

Very early stage (0)
Single <2cm,
Carcinoma in situ

Stage D
PST >2, Child–Pugh C*

Stage A–C

PST 0–2, Child–Pugh A–B

Stage 0

PST 0, Child–Pugh A

HCC

Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma

345

346

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

• Suitability traditionally based on the Milan criteria that recommend
transplantation for a single nodule of ≤5cm or up to three nodules of up
to 3cm in diameter. For both options, there should be no extra-hepatic
disease and no evidence of vascular invasion.
• Now, the San Francisco criteria are commonly applied, allowing more
patients to undergo transplantation. These allow the transplant of a
single tumour of ≤6.5cm or 2–3 lesions not exceeding 4.5cm with
a total diameter of ≤8cm. Again, extra-hepatic disease and vascular
invasion are contraindications.
• The Model for End-stage Liver Disease (MELD) criteria determine the
priority on the waiting list, based on a formula incorporating bilirubin,
the international normalized ratio (INR), and creatinine. Patients with
HCCs (who fit the Milan criteria) are awarded additional points, so that
they are at a more favourable position on the waiting list, for organ
allocation, thus decreasing the time to transplant and improving the
outcome for this cohort.
• Assessment for transplantation is a detailed process, conducted
by hepatologists and surgeons, with input from a number of allied
disciplines. Cardiorespiratory performance and renal function are
important considerations, as is the nutritional status. If a living-related
transplant is being considered, then the donor must also undergo
stringent assessment.
• There are numerous different techniques, but the basis of the
operation is hepatectomy, followed by an anhepatic phase, followed
by implantation. In the presence of severe portal hypertension, many
surgeons would perform porto-caval bypass, whilst some utilize
axillo-femoral bypass. When transplanting for HCC, attempts are made
to limit mobilization of the liver during dissection. During the anhepatic
phase, any residual synthetic ability the patient had will be lost, and the
anaesthetist monitors coagulation profiles by thromboelastography
and administers products, as directed by need. The first anastomosis is
the vena cava, and, in the presence of HCC, most transplant surgeons
excise the native IVC. Portal and hepatic arteries are then reconstructed
and finally the bile duct, usually with an end-to-end anastomosis or a
Roux-en-Y loop. Given the regenerative capacity of the liver, a donor
cadaveric organ can be split to supply two recipients.
• In modern series, the perioperative mortality of transplantation is <3%
and should be <10% at 1y. Post-operative morbidity is common, and
major complications are seen in 25% and summarized in Table 17.4.
For living-related donors, there is a <1% risk of mortality, and so donor
assessment and post-operative care are critical. Morbidity is in the order of
40%, increasing as the degree of hepatic insufficiency increases.
•	Recurrence rates, following transplantation, are around 10–20% at 5y
but are often not amenable to further attempts at cure.

Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma

Table 17.4 Complications of liver transplantation
Graft-specific
Parenchyma

Early—° non-function, acute rejection,
ischaemia–reperfusion injury, chronic rejection
Late—chronic rejection, disease recurrence (HCC or
associated liver disease)

Biliary

Bile leak, anastomotic stricture, ascending cholangitis

Hepatic artery/portal
vein

Thrombosis, stenosis
Systemic immunosuppression
Infection—local or systemic
Drug-related toxicity—cardiovascular, renal,
neurological, bone
Post-transplant malignancies

Ablation
• Traditionally, percutaneous alcohol injection and cryoablation were
the main ablative therapies and were not considered a curative option.
However, the development of RFA has changed the role of ablation,
and RFA is now the mainstay ablative therapy due its greater efficacy.
Microwave technology is also being used and may have further benefits.
•	RFA is based on the use of an alternating electrical current to cause
frictional heating, leading to coagulative necrosis and tissue dessication.
•	Evidence would suggest that, for BCLC very early and some early-stage
tumours, RFA is effective, offering cure in selected patients (although
further data are required to confirm this) or at least a bridge to
resection or transplantation.
•	RFA may be performed percutaneously in the radiology suite or during
an open or laparoscopic operation. The procedure involves inserting
an ablation catheter into the tumour under ultrasound control. The
number of ablations required to treat a lesion will depend on its size
and accessibility, as well as the type of device used, as they differ in their
characteristics. Tumour seeding is minimized by burning the needle tract,
as it is withdrawn. Care must be taken not to burn too close to the
bile ducts, as this may lead to stenosis or rupture of the bile duct, with
subsequent biloma formation. Major vessels exert a cooling effect due
to the ‘heat sink’ effect which may reduce the efficacy of the RFA. For
subcapsular lesions, the risk of bleeding and tumour seeding are greater.
• The peri-procedural mortality of RFA is in the order of <0.5%, with
an overall complication rate of around 5%, including biliary injury,
colonic injury, bleeding (subcapsular haematoma, haemoperitoneum),
respiratory (pneumothorax, haemothorax, hydrothorax, pleural
effusion), infection (liver abscess, wound, peritonitis), and needle
track seeding. Up to one-third of patients experience a post-ablation
syndrome, consisting of a flu-like illness with low-grade fever, delayed
pain, malaise, myalgia, nausea, and vomiting. It is usually self-limiting,
resolving in 7–10 days.

347

348

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

• The main downside to RFA is a high local recurrence rate, reported to
be 83% at 4y in one prospective study. Results of percutaneous RFA, in
terms of recurrence and survival, are inferior to RFA performed under
direct vision.
• The OS for HCC is in the order of 5% at 5y. Following liver resection,
the 5y survival is around 70%, and a similar success is reported,
following transplantation (up to 75%). The results of RFA for HCC
at 40–70% approach those of resection in some series, but a recent
meta-analysis has shown that, whilst the early morbidity of resection is
greater, the long-term outcomes, in terms of recurrence and survival,
are superior for resection.
• A number of factors are associated with prognosis, following resection/
transplantation for HCC, the most commonly reported in multivariate
analyses being the presence of vascular invasion, the tumour stage, the
tumour grade, and the AFP level.
Adjuvant and neoadjuvant therapy
• No adjuvant or neoadjuvant therapies are recommended for HCC,
although both approaches are the subjects of ongoing research studies.

Locally advanced and metastatic disease
• Ablative techniques (as described in E Ablation, p. 347) may be used
to treat unresectable locally advanced disease and help in the palliation
of metastatic disease.
• Two, out of seven, RCTs have shown a survival benefit for TACE,
compared with conservative management, which is confirmed by a
meta-analysis of these seven studies.
• Patient selection for TACE is crucial to avoid treatment-induced liver
failure.
• Most patients are not suitable for surgery, percutaneous ablation, or
TACE, or develop progressive disease after these interventions.
• Cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens have low objective response rates
and no survival benefit in advanced disease.
• The multi-targeted TKI sorafenib significantly improves the median
OS (10.4mo), compared with placebo (7.9mo; p <0.001), in patients
who are not suitable for, or have progressed following, surgery or
loco-regional therapy and with Child–Pugh liver function class A. There
was also a significantly improved median time to objective disease
progression (5.5mo versus 2.8mo).
• Sorafenib is standard of care in advanced HCC. Other targeted
therapies are currently being evaluated, either in combination with
sorafenib as first-line therapy of advanced disease or as second-line
therapy after sorafenib failure.
• Several other loco-regional therapies, such as radiolabelled
microspheres, lipid-based radioisotope formulations, and stereotactic
radiotherapy, have been explored. Some are in common use, but
evidence for their benefit in RCTs is lacking at this time.

Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma

Further reading
American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (2011). AASLD practice guideline. Available
at: M http://www.aasld.org/practiceguidelines/documents/bookmarked%20practice%20guidelines/hccupdate2010.pdf.
Cancer Research UK (2013). Liver cancer statistics. Available at: M http://www.cancerresearchuk.
org/cancer-info/cancerstats/types/liver/.
European Association for the Study of the Liver, European Organisation for Research and Treatment
of Cancer (2012). EASL-EORTC clinical practice guidelines: management of hepatocellular carcinoma. Available at: M http://www.easl.eu/assets/application/files/d38c7689f123edf_file.pdf.
Farid SG, Morris-Stiff G, Prasad R (2013). Postoperative management after hepatic surgery. Br J
Hosp Med 74, C89–93.
Hirschfield GM, Gibbs P, Griffiths WJ (2009). Adult liver transplantation: what non-specialists need
to know. BMJ 338, b1670.
Kim DY, Han K-H (2012). Epidemiology and surveillance of hepatocellular carcinoma. Liver Cancer
1, 2–14.
Li N, Wu YR, Wu B, Lu MQ (2012). Surgical and oncologic outcomes following laparoscopic versus
open liver resections for hepatocellular carcinoma: a meta-analysis. Hepatol Res 42, 51–9.
Lin S, Hoffmann K, Schemmer P (2012). Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma: a systematic review.
Liver Cancer 1, 144–58.
Llovet JM, Burroughs A, Bruix J (2003). Hepatocellular carcinoma. Lancet 362, 1907–17.
Llovet JM, Ricci S, Mazzaferro V, et al. (2008). Sorafenib in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. N Engl
J Med 359, 378–90.
Makuuchi M, Kosuge T, Takayama T, et al. (1993). Surgery for small liver cancers. Semin Surg Oncol
9, 298–304.
Qi X, Tang Y, An D, Bai M, et al. (2013). Radiofrequency ablation versus hepatic resection for small
hepatocellular carcinoma: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. J Clin Gastroenterol
48, 450–7.
Roxburgh P, Evans TRJ (2008). Systemic therapy of hepatocellular carcinoma: are we making progress? Adv Ther 25, 1089–104.
Shindoh J, Tzeng C-WD, Vauthey J-N (2012). Portal vein embolization for hepatocellular carcinoma.
Liver Cancer 1, 159–67.
Shiraha H, Yamamoto K, Namba M (2013). Human hepatocyte carcinogenesis. Int J Oncol 42, 1133–8.
Torbenson M (2012). Fibrolamellar carcinoma: 2012 update. Scientifica 2012, 1–15.

349

350

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Liver metastases
By far, the commonest tumours metastasizing to the liver are those arising
from the colon and rectum. This section will therefore concentrate on colorectal liver metastases (CRLM), and other tumours developing liver metastases will be considered in the chapters relevant to the ° lesions. There
have been great advances in the management of CRLM, and there are now
many options, so a detailed MDT discussion of every case is imperative.

Colorectal liver metastases
Epidemiology
• Liver metastases develop in 750% of patients with colorectal cancer.
• 7 half of CRLM are identified at the time of diagnosis of the °
(synchronous), and the others are detected later (metachronous),
usually within 3y of the index presentation.
• In the UK, there are 42 000 new colorectal cancers diagnosed each
year, and so around 20 000 would be expected to present with, or
develop, CRLM.
• The gender of CRLM follows that of colorectal cancer, with a ♂
predominance.
• Incidence is highest in countries where colorectal cancer is highest.
Aetiology
• The aetiology of colorectal cancer is discussed fully in the chapter on
colorectal cancer (see Chapter 15).
Pathology
• CRLM are adenocarcinomas and represent stage IV colorectal cancer.
• Liver metastases occur as a result of haematogenous spread from the
colorectal ° and reach the liver via the mesenteric, and subsequently
the portal, veins.
• The right portal vein follows on from the main portal vein at a less
acute angle than the left, and therefore these metastases are seen more
frequently in the right side of the liver (segments 5–8) than the left.
• They usually grow locally within the liver but, unlike HCC, rarely spread
via the hepatic veins or invade local structures such as the diaphragm.
Presentation
• The majority of synchronous liver metastases are detected during the
work-up of the ° carcinoma.
• With modern imaging techniques, very few are detected
intraoperatively at the time of colonic surgery, but this does
occasionally occur.
• Some patients, generally those that have neglected symptoms from their
° tumour, may present with advanced disease and evidence of jaundice
and ascites due to volume replacement of the liver parenchyma. These
patients may complain of pain, due to capsular stretching, and have a
palpable abdominal mass.
• The vast majority of patients with metachronous disease have their
tumours diagnosed during follow-up surveillance cross-sectional imaging.

Liver metastases

Investigation
• The majority of patients will have their liver metastases diagnosed on
a CT scan, performed either for staging or follow-up of colorectal
cancer. It is important that a triphasic CT scan is performed and that
imaging includes the chest and pelvis, as well as the abdomen, as
extra-hepatic disease may preclude resection. CT provides information
on the number and distribution of lesions and their relationship to the
hepatic and portal veins, as this is important in determining resectability.
CT may also identify the presence of steatotic changes related to
irinotecan-based chemotherapy.
• CT also provides information regarding the potential FLR. This
computer-generated volume, along with knowledge of the state of the
parenchyma in relation to exposure to chemotherapy (or underlying
liver disease), will help to determine the safe extent of resection. If the
FLR is believed to be inadequate, then PVE or a staged procedure can
be considered.
• MRI is preferred by some units to examine the liver, as it has been
shown to have a greater sensitivity in the characterization of lesions
of <10mm. Contrast-enhanced MRI is also of value in assessing
chemotherapy-related toxic injury, in particular sinusoidal obstructive
syndrome related to oxaliplatin.
• FDG-PET scanning is now more widely used as a result of studies that
suggested it changed management in 10–20% of cases. However, there
is currently no consensus for its use.
• Contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) may also be used to help
characterize lesions that appear atypical on cross-sectional imaging.
• Laparoscopy is sometimes applicable if the findings of imaging suggest,
but cannot confirm, extra-hepatic metastatic disease that would prevent
curative resection.
• Intraoperative ultrasound (IOUS) is routinely used during hepatic
surgery to delineate the anatomy. It may also detect lesions not seen
on cross-sectional imaging, in particular small lesions. This process is
enhanced by the use of a contrast agent.
• Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and carbohydrate antigen 19.9
(Ca19.9) are used to monitor disease recurrence, following resection of
the ° lesions and CRLM. Levels of both tumour markers typically fall to
0, following curative resection, and so an increase indicates recurrence,
which is sometimes not always evident on cross-sectional imaging.
• Tissue biopsy is not required prior to treatment; indeed, the risk of
needle track seeding means the process is contraindicated. However, a
review of the histology of the ° tumour is advisable (K-RAS, EGFR, and
BRAF status), as this may guide adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
Staging
• There is no TNM staging, or indeed any formal staging, system for CRLM.

351

352

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Treatment of colorectal liver metastases
Potentially curable disease
Surgical resection
•	Resection is the treatment of choice for resectable CRLM. There is no RCT
evidence for resection, but the natural history of the disease illustrates that
resection is superior to chemotherapy and all other modalities.
•	Represents the commonest indication for liver resection in the
Western world.
• 715–20% of patients with CRLM are resectable at the time of
presentation. The use of preoperative chemotherapy to downsize
CRLM means that up to a further 12–15% may become resectable.
• The definition of resectability has evolved considerably over the past
two decades, and CRLM are now considered resectable, as long as
they can be resected with a negative histopathological margin (R0) and
leaving an adequate volume of functional liver parenchyma. The concept
of needing to have a minimum margin of 1cm is no longer considered
relevant, and a 1mm margin is considered R0.
• The presence of extra-hepatic disease is no longer considered an
absolute contraindication to liver resection. Data from a large series
has demonstrated that extra-hepatic intra-abdominal disease, such
as hilar pedicle lymph nodes, may be excised, with good long-term
survival. Lung metastases from colorectal cancer are now also
targeted for resection. There is also early experience with debulking
and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy, together with liver
resection for patients with advanced disease.
• The timing of liver resection is dependent on the treatment
plan determined by the MDT review. If the patient is receiving
chemotherapy, or neoadjuvant therapy is planned, then surgery
should be performed after an interval of 6–8wk because of the risk
of associated chemotherapy-related parenchymal damage (sinusoidal
obstruction syndrome with oxaliplatin, and steatosis/steatohepatitis
with irinotecan). The patient should be re-imaged, prior to finalizing a
decision, to insure there has not been disease progression.
• In patients undergoing chemotherapy, the metastases sometimes exhibit
a complete response on imaging studies, so it is important that, in such
cases, the area or tissue previously occupied by the metastasis is also
excised, as histological studies have demonstrated viable tumour cells in
25–45% of cases.
• Data on repeat hepatic resections for CRLM has shown that, as long
as an R0 resection is obtained, the long-term results of repeat liver
resections are similar to those of the first resection.
• The types of resection performed have changed significantly,
with a tendency in most units to perform parenchymal-sparing
resections—so-called non-anatomical resections. This equates to
excising isolated metastases, when possible, rather than excising large
portions of the liver with a large volume of normal parenchyma along
the tissue planes (anatomical resection), as this is less of an insult to the
patient. The liver anatomy is discussed in terms of Couinaud segments,
as illustrated in Fig. 17.4, along with some common operations.

Treatment of colorectal liver metastases

• Many resections can be performed, using either open or laparoscopic
techniques, with data suggesting comparable oncological outcomes.
• Liver resections are typically performed under low CVP anaesthesia, as
this has been shown to reduce the risk of perioperative haemorrhage,
this being an important factor in determining outcome.
• All surgeons perform IOUS to delineate the lesions, examine for additional
lesions, and check the anatomy, in particular the hepatic and portal veins.
A prospective transection line can also be marked at this time.
• A number of different techniques are used to transect the parenchyma,
including parenchymal crushing (often referred to as ‘Kellyclasia’),
cavitron ultrasonic surgical aspirator (CUSA) device, and water jet
dissection. In each case, small vessels are tied or clipped. Other
commonly utilized techniques include radiofrequency or bipolar
diathermy. The majority of surgeons divide the hepatic pedicles and
hepatic veins, using a stapling device after dissecting the parenchyma,
but an alternative approach is to isolate and divide the inflow into
the segment to be resected upfront, the so-called Glissonean pedicle
technique. Although more important for patients with cirrhotic livers,
this may assume importance in the future when more patients have
chemotherapy-related hepatotoxicity.
• There is debate as to the need to control the inflow and outflow during
hepatic resection, but most surgeons use a Pringle manoeuvre (isolation
of the hepatic artery and portal vein at the hilum of the liver) in major
resections to control the inflow to the liver. Other techniques, including
the isolation of the outflow and vena cava, are limited to extended
resections.
Liver resections
2

8
7

4

3

5

1

6

Left lateral sectionectomy = 2

3

Left hemihepatectomy = 1

2

3

4

Left trisectionectomy = 1

2

3

4

5

8

Right hemihepatectomy = 5

6

7

8

Right trisectionectomy = 4

5

6

7

Fig. 17.4 Couinaud segmental anatomy of the liver.
Reproduced with permission from Professor JA Peter Lodge.

8

353

354

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

• At the end of the procedure, the CVP is increased back to normal
levels, and the cut surface of the liver inspected for bleeding points and
bile leaks. These are controlled by suture or staple. There is a wide
range of haemostatic agents that can be applied to the surface of the
liver, and those chosen are consultant preference.
• Only in extended resections where the biliary tree is divided are
anastomoses constructed. This is typically done by creating a Roux loop
and connecting the open end of the biliary tree to the jejunum.
Synchronous colorectal liver metastases
• There are several different approaches to patients with
synchronous CRLM.
• As long as the ° tumour is not obstructing (or can be stented),
one commonly adopted option would be for neoadjuvant systemic
chemotherapy with oxaliplatin or irinotecan-based regimens, together
with a mAb (if appropriate), for 3mo. After this time, the patient is
re-imaged, with a view to surgery. Liver surgery, in isolation or in
combination with resection of the °, may be undertaken 5–6wk
following completion of chemotherapy in patients who exhibit a partial
response or stable disease. Following liver surgery, the patients then
have further adjuvant treatment. Patients who progress on first-line
treatment are considered poor candidates for liver resection due
to early relapse, following surgery, and are generally subjected to
second-line treatment, in an attempt to obtain systemic control, before
any liver-directed treatment is considered.
• A second option, and one commonly adopted for obstructing lesions,
is to perform a combined resection of hepatic and colonic disease,
followed by adjuvant therapy, depending on the extent of the liver
disease. If the liver disease is extensive, then a colonic resection can be
performed, together with resection of a portion of the liver disease,
and the remaining hepatic disease can be resected, following adjuvant
chemotherapy.
• A further option is to excise the hepatic disease, treat the patient with
systemic chemotherapy, and then deal with the ° lesion.
Metachronous colorectal liver metastases
• Liver metastases presenting within 1y of resection of the ° are best
regarded as synchronous and treated as such.
• Metachronous disease presenting after 1y is usually treated with surgery
upfront, if the disease burden is resectable. This may be by means of a
single-stage operation or a two-stage procedure, if there is extensive
disease. In the two-stage operation, the first stage may include surgery
or RFA.
• The role of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the presence of resectable
CRLM was evaluated in the EORTC 40983 that failed to show any
advantage, in terms of survival, over surgery alone.
• Patients whose disease is thought to be unresectable or borderline
resectable should have systemic chemotherapy, in an attempt to
downsize the disease and allow the patient to undergo surgery.

Treatment of colorectal liver metastases

• The morbidity following resection for CRLM are lower than for HCC
at around 20%, as the parenchyma is invariably not cirrhotic. The
prevalence of complications does, however, increase with the extent of
resection. Most are classified as being minor complications not requiring
further surgical intervention. Although the parenchyma is often affected
by chemotherapy-related changes, the exact effects these pathological
changes have on outcome, in terms of morbidity and mortality, are
uncertain.
• The 5y survival in contemporary series is in the order of 50–60%. The
results of surgery, following downsizing chemotherapy, is similar to that
of upfront resection, and the results of second and third resections are
also similar, provided all disease is excised.
• The Fong score (see Box 17.1) is used to provide the prognostic
outcome, following the resection of CRLM. Each factor is scored 0 or
1, with a median survival of 74mo reported for patients scoring 0, and
14mo for those with five risk factors.

Box 17.1 Fong score and outcome of CRLM
•	Extension of ° colorectal carcinoma into the serosa.
• Time to develop CRLM >1y.
• Number of lesions >1.
• Size of largest CRLM >5cm.
• CEA >200ng/mL.

Locally advanced and metastatic disease
• If the disease is inoperable, due to its extent (inadequate reserve) and
involvement of critical anatomical structures (hepatic/portal veins),
orwhen there is progression whilst on chemotherapy, there is no role
for surgical resection.
•	RFA is recommended by NICE to treat lesions in patients that are
unsuitable or unfit for resection.
• In the most recent assessment, NICE stated there were inadequate data
to support microwave ablation at present outside of a clinical trial.

355

356

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Further reading
Adam R, De Gramont A, Figueras J, et al. (2013). The oncosurgery approach to managing liver
metastases from colorectal cancer: a multidisciplinary international consensus. Oncologist 17,
1225–39.
Adam R, Delvart V, Pascal G, et al. (2004). Rescue surgery for unresectable colorectal liver metastases downstaged by chemotherapy: a model to predict long-term survival. Ann Surg 240, 644–57.
Bischof DA, Clary BM, Maithel SK, Pawlik TM (2013). Surgical management of disappearing colorectal liver metastases. Br J Surg 100, 1414–20.
Carpizo DR, D’Angelica M (2009). Liver resection for metastatic colorectal cancer in the presence of
extrahepatic disease. Lancet Oncol 10, 801–9.
Folprecht G, Gruenberger T, Bechstein WO, et al. (2010). Tumour response and secondary resectability of colorectal liver metastases following neoadjuvant chemotherapy with cetuximab: the
CELIM randomised phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 11, 38–47.
Fong Y, Fortner J, Sun RL, Brennan MF, Blumgart LH (1999). Clinical score for predicting recurrence after hepatic resection for metastatic colorectal cancer: analysis of 1001 consecutive cases.
Ann Surg 230, 309–18.
Garden OJ, Rees M, Poston GJ, et al. (2006). Guidelines for resection of colorectal cancer liver
metastases. Gut 55 (Suppl III). 1–8.
Hillingso JG, Wille-Jorgensen P (2009). Staged or simultaneous resection of synchronous liver metastases from colorectal cancer: a systematic review. Colorectal Dis 11, 3–10.
Huang SY, Aloia TA, Shindoh J, et al. (2013). Efficacy and safety of portal vein embolization for
two-stage hepatectomy in patients with colorectal liver metastasis. J Vasc Interv Radiol 25, 608–17.
International Hepato-Pancreato-Bilairy Association (2000). IHPBA Brisbane 2000 terminology of liver
anatomy and resections. Available at: M https://ihpba.memberclicks.net/liver-resection.
Karagkounis G, Torbenson MS, Daniel HD, et al. (2013). Incidence and prognostic impact of KRAS
and BRAF mutation in patients undergoing liver surgery for colorectal metastases. Cancer 119,
4137–44.
Khan AZ, Morris-Stiff G, Makuuchi M (2009). Patterns of chemotherapy-induced hepatic injury
and their implications for patients undergoing liver resection for colorectal liver metastases.
J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg 16, 137–44.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (2009). Radiofrequency ablation for colorectal liver
metastases. Available at: M http://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/IPG327.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (2011). Microwave ablation for the treatment of liver
metastases. Available at: M http://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/IPG406.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (2011). Selective internal radiation therapy for
non-resectable colorectal metastases in the liver. Available at: M http://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/
IPG401.
Niekel MC, Bipat S, Stoker J (2010). Diagnostic imaging of colorectal liver metastases with CT, MR
imaging, FDG PET, and/or FDG PET/CT: a meta-analysis of prospective studies including patients
who have not previously undergone treatment. Radiology 257, 674–84.
Nordlinger B, Sorbye H, Glimelius B, et al. (2013). Perioperative FOLFOX4 chemotherapy and
surgery versus surgery alone for resectable liver metastases from colorectal cancer (EORTC
40983): long-term results of a randomised, controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 14, 1208–15.
Sarpel U, Bonavia AS, Grucela A, Roayaie S, Schwartz ME, Labow DM (2009). Does anatomic versus
nonanatomic resection affect recurrence and survival in patients undergoing surgery for colorectal
liver metastasis? Ann Surg Oncol 16, 379–84.
Van Cutsem E, Nordlinger B, Cervantes A (2010). Advanced colorectal cancer: ESMO Clinical
Practice Guidelines for treatment. Ann Oncol 21 (Suppl 5), 93–7.
Vauthey JN, Kopetz SE (2013). From multidisciplinary to personalized treatment of colorectal liver
metastases: 4 reasons to consider RAS. Cancer 119, 4083–5.
Wong R, Cunningham D, Barbachano Y, et al. (2011). A multicentre study of capecitabine, oxaliplatin plus bevacizumab as perioperative treatment of patients with poor-risk colorectal liver-only
metastases not selected for upfront resection. Ann Oncol 22, 2042–8.

Treatment of colorectal liver metastases

357

358

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Pancreatic: ductal adenocarcinoma
The majority of pancreatic cancers (98%) arise from the exocrine pancreas,
and the vast majority are ductal adenocarcinomas (95%). This chapter will
concentrate on these lesions, and neuroendocrine tumours will be covered
separately at the end of this section.

Epidemiology
• The tenth commonest cancer in the UK, with around 8500 new cases
per year.
• The gender incidence of pancreatic cancer is similar, and it represents
the tenth commonest cancer in men and the eighth commonest
in women.
• The incidence rates fell for both men and women over the last decades
of the twentieth century, and since they have remained static for ♂ but
are increasing in ♀.
• >80% of cases occur in patients aged 60 or over.
• Globally, the highest prevalence rates are seen in Central Europe
(Latvia, Hungary, and Czech Republic), Japan, Germany, and the US.
• It is the fifth commonest cause of cancer-related deaths, with almost
8000 deaths annually, <20% surviving beyond 1y, and only 3%
surviving 5y.

Aetiology
• Increased risk of developing pancreatic cancer is associated with
smoking. Up to 30% of cancers in the UK are linked directly to smoking.
The risk also applies to smokeless tobacco and passive smoking (50%
increased risk).
• There is a 2-fold risk in diabetic patients (types I and II).
• Obesity is an important risk factor.
• Important dietary factors, including high consumption of red meat and
processed meat. High saturated fat consumption may be important too.
• There is an increased risk of developing pancreatic cancer for patients
with chronic pancreatitis of between 2- and 20-fold.
• Post-gastrectomy, there is a 2–5-fold risk presumed to be due to
reduced acidity, leading to change in bacterial flora and processing of
carcinogens.
• Alcohol consumption is not believed to be a direct risk factor. However,
it is linked strongly to chronic pancreatitis.
• Hereditary pancreatitis carries an increased risk of at least 50-fold and
an absolute risk of 50% by 75y of age.
• There is a genetic component, with first-degree relatives having a 45%
increased risk for pancreatic carcinoma.
• The vast majority of carcinomas arising from the exocrine pancreas are
sporadic.
• Sporadic ductal adenocarcinomas have a high frequency of K-ras
mutations (790% of cases) and mutations of p53 in 750% of cases,
and they commonly have mutations of p21 and loss of expression
of SMAD4.

Pancreatic: ductal adenocarcinoma

• Familial syndromes associated with ductal adenocarcinomas include
HNPCC, FAP, Peutz–Jeghers, cystic fibrosis, the familial atypical mole/
malignant melanoma syndrome, hereditary pancreatitis, and familial
breast/ovarian cancer syndrome associated with BRCA2 mutations.

Pathology
• The majority of carcinomas of the exocrine pancreas are ductal
adenocarcinomas (95%). Other histopathological types include
mucinous, adenosquamous, and carcinomas arising from IPMN,
mucinous cystic neoplasms, or solid pseudo-papillary tumours.
• The majority of ductal adenocarcinomas are located in the head of the
pancreas (70–80%), and the remaining 20–30% in the body and tail.
• At presentation, 10–20% have localized disease, 20–30% have locally
advanced disease, and the remainder have metastatic disease.
• Lymphatic spread is common and occurs early, even with small tumours.
Early perineural and vascular invasion are also common.
• Invasion at the posterior border of the pancreas, in relation to the
mesenteric artery and vein, is common, thus explaining the high local
recurrence rates. New guidelines on specimen reporting take this into
account, and recurrence rates in contemporary series are now much
greater but correlate much better with outcome.
• In addition to neuroendocrine tumours (discussed later), other rare
types include lymphoma (1%) and metastases (breast, lung, melanoma,
renal, colon) (<0.5%).

Presentation
• Clinical manifestations depend on the anatomical location of the ° tumour.
• The classical presentation of carcinomas arising in the head of the
pancreas is with obstructive jaundice, usually in association with weight
loss and anorexia that is seen in 775% of cases. Epigastric pain radiating
through to the back (as a result of coeliac plexus infiltration), associated
with weight loss and anorexia, is the typical presentation for lesions of
the body and tail.
• Malnutrition, as a result of steatorrhoea and malabsorption, is also
common, being seen in 50% and occurring as a result of occlusion of the
pancreatic duct, impairing the flow of the pancreatic juice containing its
digestive enzymes.
• Gastric outlet obstruction is evident at presentation or develops in
one-third of cases.
• Other clinical presentations include diabetes mellitus in up to 5%; 1% of
new-onset adult diabetics have an underlying pancreatic carcinoma; 5%
of patients present with acute pancreatitis.
• Signs in early pancreatic cancer are few, hence its late presentation.
A palpable gall bladder, in the presence of painless jaundice, is likely to
be due to a pancreatic carcinoma (interpretation of Courvoisier’s law)
and is seen in one-third of patients.
• In advanced disease, clinical examination commonly reveals jaundice,
in association with an epigastric mass. Other signs include ascites,
supraclavicular (Virchow’s) lymph node (Trousseau’s sign), migratory
thrombophlebitis, and acanthosis nigricans.

359

360

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Investigation
• The first investigation performed is usually an USS that confirms
biliary obstruction and may identify a pancreatic mass, although bowel
gas often impairs the view of the pancreas. It may also identify liver
metastases and ascites in advanced disease.
• Cross-sectional imaging of the abdomen, chest, and pelvis with CT is
the standard modality for investigating suspected pancreatic cancer.
It identifies the ° tumour and evidence of metastatic disease (liver,
peritoneum, chest) and, for potentially resectable tumours, allows
an assessment of the relationship between the tumour and superior
mesenteric vessels/portal vein.
• Some units prefer assessment with MRI, as this provides similar
information to CT.
•	EUS is now regularly utilized to obtain better information on the
relationship between the tumour and nearby anatomy, in particular
the mesenteric vessels. It also allows a biopsy of the tumour to be
performed which is important in planning neoadjuvant therapy.
•	ERCP is now rarely used as an investigative tool. It is, however, used on
a therapeutic basis with temporary or permanent stenting of the duct.
Ideally, this should be performed after a decision is made at a pancreatic
MDT regarding the patient’s suitability for surgical resection. ERCP can
also provide brushings to assist in the diagnostic process, if EUS biopsies
are inadequate.
• Laparoscopy is used variably, with some surgeons performing routine
assessment and others a selective approach. It allows visualization of the
peritoneal cavity, the performance of a peritoneal wash, and cytological
assessment of the aspirate, and it allows good visualization of the liver
surface for small metastases.
• PET-CT scanning is being increasingly used for the staging of ductal
adenocarcinomas and is beneficial in identifying metastatic disease.
• Ca19.9 is widely measured in suspected pancreatic cancer and is useful
for both diagnosis and monitoring of therapy. False positives are seen in
jaundice, biliary disease, and colon and stomach cancers. There is a false
negative rate, as 5% of the population do not express the antigen.

Staging
• Staging of ductal adenocarcinomas is according to the TNM classification
(see M https://cancerstaging.org to download the TNM staging).

Treatment
Resectable disease
•	Resection is possible in only 15–20% of cases.
• Preoperative drainage is now generally avoided, as it is associated
with higher post-operative morbidity. It is necessary if the patient has
cholangitis or if there is likely to be a delay to surgery and bilirubin is
rising.
• Operative mortality should be <5%. Outcome is related to hospital
volume, with operative mortality of <2% in high-volume centres, and so
it is recommended that all pancreatic surgery be carried out in tertiary
referral units following MDT discussion.

Pancreatic: ductal adenocarcinoma

• For lesions arising in the head of the pancreas, a pylorus-preserving
pancreatoduodenectomy (PPPD), or a Whipple’s procedure, is usually
performed. For lesions of the body and tail, a distal pancreatectomy
is the operation of choice. A total pancreatectomy is occasionally
performed for multifocal disease.
• There is increasing evidence that venous resection is of value in order
to obtain a clear margin in selected patients, but arterial resection is not
advocated.
• Pancreatic surgery has traditionally been formed through a laparotomy,
but recent developments in minimally invasive surgery have meant that
laparoscopic resections are being performed. Most HPB units now
perform distal pancreatectomies laparoscopically, and experience with
PPPD is growing.
• Post-operative morbidity is common, being seen in around 40% of cases
and include:
• pancreatic fistula—incidence of 10–30%. Commoner with soft glands
and small ducts. Graded A–C, of which 710% are clinically significant.
Octreotide appears to reduce the incidence of pancreatic fistula
• delayed gastric emptying—incidence of 20–40%. Graded A–C, of
which 40% are clinically relevant
• bleeding—incidence of 5%, but associated with high mortality rate.
Graded A–C, of which 60% require clinical intervention
• biliary and enteric leaks are less common and do not have any
specific classification systems
• intra-abdominal abscesses occur 2° to leaks and can usually be
managed percutaneously.
• All the above major complications are commoner after resection of the
pancreatic head.
• Pancreatic insufficiency—common after pancreatic surgery and often
requires enzyme supplementation.
• Diabetes—incidence varies with the type of surgery and indication for
surgery. Commoner after distal pancreatectomy due to the distribution
of islet cells.
• Cardiorespiratory and thrombotic complications are also common after
major pancreatic resections, and appropriate preoperative work-up and
perioperative prophylaxis are required.
• There has been significant debate about the techniques in pancreatic
resection and how these impact morbidity. The current evidence would
suggest:
• pylorus-preserving versus Whipple resection—there would appear
to be little difference in the two techniques on a meta-analysis.
A large, hopefully definitive, study is under way
• pancreaticogastrostomy versus pancreaticojejunostomy
reconstruction—a gastric anastomosis to the pancreas may reduce
the incidence of pancreatic fistula. If a pancreaticojejunostomy
is performed, invagination reduces the incidence of fistula, when
compared to a duct-to-mucosa anastomosis
• antecolic versus retrocolic gastroenterostomy—the choice of
method does not appear to impact the prevalence of delayed gastric
emptying

361

362

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

standard versus extended lymphadenectomy—the extended
operation does not improve survival but is associated with increased
morbidity, and it is not recommended as standard of care
• stent versus no pancreatic stent—internal pancreatic duct stenting
does not appear to reduce the incidence of pancreatic fistula, but
new data suggest that external drainage may be useful in this regard,
in particular for soft pancreas with small ducts.
• Surgical resection is the only chance of cure, but survival remains
poor after surgery alone for adenocarcinoma of the head of the
pancreas—the median survival is 20mo, the 5y survival 20–25%. Ductal
carcinomas of the body do worse due to local infiltration, making the
vast majority unresectable.
•

Adjuvant/neoadjuvant therapy
• The ESPAC-1 trial demonstrated a significant benefit from the use of
adjuvant (post-operative) chemotherapy using six cycles of fluorouracil
and FA administered in a modified Mayo clinic schedule. There was
a significant improvement in the median, 2y, and 5y survival, with
chemotherapy (21mo, 40%, 21%, respectively), compared with
observation alone (15.5mo, 30%, 8%, respectively). There was no
benefit for post-operative chemo-radiotherapy.
• The benefits of post-operative chemotherapy have been confirmed in a
subsequent meta-analysis of five RCTs.
• The ESPAC-3 study demonstrated similar PFS and OS with gemcitabine,
compared with fluorouracil and FA, in the adjuvant setting. There are
significant variations in practice throughout the world. In the US, use of
radiotherapy is far commoner than in most European centres.
Locally advanced and metastatic disease
• A small proportion of patients with locally advanced disease due to
vascular invasion may be suitable for resection. There is some evidence
that preoperative chemotherapy may increase resectability in this
cohort.
• The mainstay of treatment is symptom control. For patients with
jaundice, stenting is the currently favoured modality, with the insertion
of a metallic stent at ERCP or PTC if ERCP fails to gain access to the bile
duct. Interest in surgical bypass has rekindled in recent years, with the
use of minimally invasive surgical techniques.
• For patients developing gastric outlet obstruction, duodenal stenting
may be attempted or patients may be suitable for a surgical bypass.
• For those deemed fit enough to tolerate chemotherapy, combined
modality treatment with chemo-radiotherapy is commonly used.
• Most clinical trials are small and non-randomized.
• Two randomized studies have consistently shown that fluorouracilbased chemo-radiation has a survival advantage, compared to
radiotherapy alone.
• The limited available data suggest a benefit for combined-modality
treatment, compared with chemotherapy alone, although this benefit
is small.
• Capecitabine may be preferable to a gemcitabine-based regimen as
consolidation chemo-radiation, following induction chemotherapy.

Pancreatic: ductal adenocarcinoma

• However, many patients with advanced disease are not fit for palliative
chemotherapy, and so the mainstay of their treatment is pain control
and nutritional support.
• The median survival of these individuals is 6–11mo.
• Until recently, gemcitabine monotherapy was the standard of care for
the palliation of patients with advanced disease.
• The objective response rate with gemcitabine monotherapy is
disappointing (≤10%). However, gemcitabine has a superior clinical
benefit response (24%), compared to fluorouracil (4%), and a modest,
but significant, improvement in the median OS (5.65mo versus 4.41mo)
and in 1y survival (18% versus 2%), compared with fluorouracil.
• The addition of erlotinib, an EGFR TKI, to gemcitabine resulted in a
statistically significant improvement in OS, compared with gemcitabine
in combination with a placebo.
• Combination chemotherapy with the ‘FOLFIRINOX’ regimen
(fluorouracil, FA, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan) results in an improved
objective response rate (31.6% versus 9.4%), median PFS (6.4mo
versus 3.3mo), and median OS (11.1mo versus 6.8mo), compared with
gemcitabine monotherapy, in patients with an adequate performance
status.
• More recently, gemcitabine, in combination with nab-paclitaxel, has
resulted in superior objective response rates (23% versus 7%), median
PFS (5.5mo versus 3.3mo), and median OS (8.5mo versus 6.7mo),
compared with gemcitabine monotherapy.
• The median survival of these individuals is 2–6mo.

363

364

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Pancreatic: pancreatic neuroendocrine
tumours
Incidence
• Incidence of 1 per 100 000 population.
•	Equal gender distribution.
• Peak incidence 30–60y.
•	Represent 2% of pancreatic carcinomas.

Aetiology
• The vast majority of carcinomas arising from the endocrine pancreas are
sporadic.
• No specific risk factors have been identified.
• 1–2% of endocrine tumours are associated with autosomal dominant
conditions:
• MEN type 1—80% have a pancreatic endocrine tumour; most are
small; gastrinoma > insulinoma; 10% are symptomatic; defect of
menin gene on 11q13)
• von Hippel Lindau (vHL)—15% have a tumour, and almost all are
non-functioning
• neurofibromatosis type 1—seen in 10% and usually
somatostatinomas, but do not cause a syndrome
• tuberous sclerosis—very rare.

Pathology and presentation
• 70% are functional, producing gut hormones, and the remainder are said
to be ‘non-functioning’.
• Functional tumours are usually suspected, based on symptoms
generated through hormone production, and confirmed on
measurement of a gut hormone profile.
• Non-functional tumours have a similar presentation to ductal
adenocarcinomas and are usually larger.
Insulinoma
• Commonest, with an incidence of 1–4/million population.
• Commoner in ♀ (3:2), with an average age of 50 at presentation, but,
in MEN type 1 patients, the mean age is mid 20s.
• Only 10% are malignant.
• Usually single, small, sporadic, and intra-pancreatic.
• 10% associated with familial syndromes, and these may be multicentric;
4% of MEN type 1 have an insulinoma.
• Causes hypoglycaemia with symptoms, including headaches, confusion,
palpitations, anxiety, visual disturbances, weakness, and seizures.
• Diagnosis based on fasting hypoglycaemia in the presence of elevated
insulin. A 72h fast may also be used if the initial assessment is equivocal.
Proinsulin and C-peptide levels are also high.
• Often difficult to locate on cross-sectional imaging and may require
additional studies such as pre-operative venous sampling, somatostatin
scintigraphy, or intra-operative ultrasound.
•	Evenly distributed through the pancreas.

Pancreatic: pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours

• High resectability rate, even with metastatic disease, where debulking
can be performed, as they are usually slow-growing.
Gastrinoma
• Incidence of 0.5–3/million population.
• ♂ dominance of 2:1, with a mean age at presentation of 30–50y.
• 90% are malignant or have malignant potential.
• Mainly sporadic. Pancreatic lesions are single and large, with a mean
size of 4cm. Only 20% are intra-pancreatic, and the majority (70%) are
duodenal which are often smaller and multiple.
• 25% have a genetic link to MEN type 1, but almost all of these are
duodenal.
• Patients usually have multiple ulcers in the stomach, oesophagus, and
small bowel (Zollinger–Ellison syndrome), with modes of presentation
including pain, bleeding, and perforation. Diarrhoea and steatorrhoea
are also reported.
• Diagnosis is based on an elevated serum gastrin level, in association with
increased basal acid production. Must be off a proton pump inhibitor
(PPI) for at least 1wk, and placed on an H2 inhibitor instead. Gastric pH
should also be measured.
• Lesions are usually localized with cross-sectional imaging.
•	Evenly distributed throughout the pancreas.
•	Resectability rates are increasing, as now being diagnosed earlier due to
greater awareness. Debulking is also an option for gastrinomas.
Glucagonoma
•	Rare—<300 cases in the literature.
•	Equal gender distribution. Average age of 50 at presentation.
• The majority are malignant, with 60% having liver metastases at
presentation.
• 90% sporadic. Usually single and large, with a mean size of 6cm.
• 10% linked to MEN type 1.
• The classic presentation is with necrolytic migratory erythema. Other
features include diabetes, stomatitis, anaemia, and weight loss.
• Diagnosed on the basis of elevated glucagon and findings on
cross-sectional imaging.
• Lesions are usually localized with cross-sectional imaging.
• 80% are located in the body and tail.
•	Resectability rate is high, and debulking is often possible for metastatic
disease.
VIPoma
• 0.05–0.5/million population.
•	Equal gender distribution. Most present during the fifth decade of life.
• 60–80% show malignant behaviour.
• Usually sporadic, with a mean size of 3cm at presentation.
• 5% associated with MEN type 1.
• The classic presentation is with profuse watery diarrhoea of up to 5L/
day. Associated hypokalaemia, weakness, lethargy, nausea, and vomiting.
Also known as Verner–Morrison syndrome or watery diarrhoea and
hypokalaemia achlorhydria (WDHA) syndrome.
• Diagnosis is based on an elevated serum vasoactive intestinal peptide
(VIP) in a patient with large-volume secretory diarrhoea.

365

366

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

• Lesions are usually localized with cross-sectional imaging.
• Mainly located in the body and tail of the pancreas.
•	Resectability rate is high, and debulking is often possible for metastatic
disease.
Somatostatinoma
• 0.025/million population.
•	Equal gender distribution. Most present during the fifth decade of life.
• 50–60% are malignant.
• Usually sporadic, with a mean size of 5cm, and 50% are pancreatic, with
the remainder in the duodenum or small bowel.
• 7% associated with MEN type 1.
• Non-specific symptoms—steatorrhoea, weight loss, hypochlorhydria,
diarrhoea, diabetes mellitus, cholelithiasis, and anaemia.
• Diagnosis is based on the identification of an elevated serum
somatostatin.
• Lesions are usually localized with cross-sectional imaging.
• Mainly located in the body and tail of the pancreas.
•	Resectability rate is high, and debulking is often possible for metastatic
disease.
• Other very rare functional endocrine tumours produce growth
hormone-releasing hormone and ACTH.
• Non-functional neuroendocrine tumours are usually >5cm and are
more advanced at presentation, when compared to functioning
tumours, with the majority having liver metastases; 50% are malignant.
Symptoms are typically pain, weight loss, and jaundice. The incidence
is increasing as a result of being incidental findings on cross-sectional
imaging. They may produce chromogranin A (70–100%) or pancreatic
polypeptide (50–100%). Resection rates are lower, and debulking
metastatic disease does not improve outcome.

Diagnosis
• The diagnostic and staging process is similar to that of a ductal
adenocarcinoma, with cross-sectional imaging using CT and MRI being
the commonest modalities. They are usually hypervascular, giving
characteristic appearances. These modalities detect >70% of lesions of
>3cm, but <50% of those of <3cm—usually insulinomas.
• Somatostatin receptor scintigraphy, using radiolabelled octreotide,
is of use in localizing pancreatic endocrine tumours, as most express
somatostatin receptors. This is useful to detect ° lesions and metastatic
disease and changes management in around 40% of cases. Not useful
for insulinomas, as 90% do not express the receptor.
•	EUS is useful to help identify small lesions, in particular insulinomas, as
these are often octreotide-avid.
• PET scanning is increasingly being used and appears to be a sensitive
means of localizing tumours.
• Intraoperative localization with ultrasound is of great value for small
lesions.
• Assessment of venous gradients is now rarely performed.
• Functioning endocrine tumours also produce chromogranin A in
60–90% of cases, and insulinomas express chromogranin B.

Pancreatic: pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours

Staging
• The WHO staging, as described in the section on neuroendocrine
tumours of small intestinal cancers E Neuroendocrine, p. 334, is used
to classify pancreatic lesions.
• The staging of pancreatic endocrine tumours is according to the TNM
classification, as per ductal adenocarcinomas.

Treatment
Potentially curable disease
• Important medical treatments include PPIs for gastrinomas and the use
of somatostatin analogues which are beneficial for most functioning
tumours.
• Surgical treatment options are similar to those of ductal
adenocarcinomas.
• A proportion of small carcinomas are suitable for pancreas-sparing
surgery such as enucleation or central pancreatectomy.
• For patients with metastatic disease in the liver, transplantation and
resection may be therapeutic options. Advanced disease may also
be treated with hepatic artery embolization or chemoembolization
and RFA.
• The 5y survival for pancreatic endocrine tumours is dependent on the
functionality, specific hormone production, and stage at presentation.
For insulinomas, as malignant disease is uncommon, the 5y survival is >90%.
For gastrinomas, patients with no metastases have a similar survival (90%),
whilst 20–30% of patients with liver metastases survive 5y. For glucagonomas, VIPomas, and somatostatinomas, the survival of non-metastatic lesions
is >95%, and 60% for those developing liver metastases. Non-functioning
tumours have a 50% 5y survival rate.

367

368

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Ampullary carcinoma
Describes tumours arising in the distal 1–2cm or so of the bile duct where it
passes through the duodenal wall, as well as the ampullary papilla itself and
the intra-duodenal pancreatic duct.

Incidence
• Traditionally thought to be rare, accounting for around 7% of
periampullary lesions, but new cutting and staining techniques suggest
it probably accounts for a third of cases, with similar numbers to
pancreatic carcinoma and distal cholangiocarcinoma.
• US data from the National Cancer Institute’s (NCI) Surveillance
Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program suggested an increasing
incidence, although others have cast doubt on this and suggest it may be
due to increased recognition on cross-sectional imaging.
• More common in men.
• Peak incidence from 60–70y.

Aetiology
• The majority of ampullary carcinomas are sporadic.
• 200–300-fold increased risk for patients with FAP and HNPCC.

Pathology
• Tumours of the ampulla of Vater may arise in the ampulla
(intra-ampullary type) or on the duodenal surface of the papilla
(periampullary type) or may involve both the intra-ampullary and
periampullary regions (mixed type). Thus, ampullary tumours may show
biliary and/or intestinal features.
• The origin of the tumour may be difficult, and occasionally impossible,
to determine; the differential diagnosis includes carcinoma of the distal
common bile duct, main pancreatic duct, and duodenum.
• New sectioning techniques, developed by Verbeke and colleagues, allow
a more accurate definition of the tumour origin. Can distinguish on the
basis of mucin subtypes, with ampullary carcinomas typically producing
sialomucins.
• Important to differentiate on the basis of the mucosa of the ampulla
(pancreatic, intestinal, or mixed), as tumours arising in the different
subtypes of the mucosa have different outcomes. This is also important
in relation to the selection of adjuvant/neoadjuvant therapies.
• Tumour morphology may be papillary or ulcerated. Lesions with a
papillary morphology have a better prognosis, as they cause obstruction
at an earlier stage.

Presentation
• As both ampullary and pancreatic carcinomas occlude the pancreatic
and common bile ducts, the presentation is, in most cases, identical to
that of pancreatic cancer.
• In a small number of patients with polypoid lesions, there may be
intermittent jaundice, as these tumours occlude the lumen, but then, as
the pressure within the bile duct increases, they are displaced, restoring
biliary flow.

Ampullary carcinoma

Diagnosis
• As with pancreatic carcinoma, ultrasound is often the first modality
requested, in the presence of jaundice, and confirms biliary obstruction
and identifies liver metastases, if present. However, ampullary tumours
are rarely identified on ultrasound, as, given the location of the ampulla,
tumours often obstruct the biliary tree when only small.
• Cross-sectional imaging, using CT and MRI, are the main modalities
used for diagnosis and staging. A recent study has suggested that
diffusion-weighted MRI provides greater diagnostic accuracy over
conventional MRI.
•	EUS is useful in confirming the size and depth of invasion of the tumour,
so as to allow planning of therapy. For larger lesions, it identifies the
relationships between the tumour and major vessels.
•	ERCP may be of use in ampullary lesions to view the tumour and
obtain biopsies. As with pancreatic cancer, for patients not suitable for
resection, a stent may be placed, following discussion at an HPB MDT
meeting.
• As with pancreatic cancer, laparoscopy is used variably. Ampullary
carcinomas less typically disseminate to the peritoneum.
• PET-CT is often performed for periampullary carcinomas, although
there is no specific study assessing its role in ampullary cancer.
• Ca19.9 levels are frequently measured in the work-up of patients
with jaundice. Levels are often elevated in patients with ampullary
carcinomas, but usually less so than for pancreatic cancer.

Staging
• Staging of ampullary carcinoma is according to the TNM classification
(see M https://cancerstaging.org to download the TNM staging).

Treatment
Potentially curable tumours
Surgical resection
• Surgical resection is the main treatment option, with a
pancreatoduodenectomy performed for resectable ampullary
carcinomas, with morbidity and mortality similar to those for pancreatic
carcinoma.
• The 5y survival for ampullary carcinomas is in the order of 60%, and in
the order of 70–80% for node-negative disease.
Locally advanced and metastatic disease
• As with pancreatic carcinoma, options for the palliation of jaundice
include surgical bypass or stenting of the biliary tree.

369

370

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Further reading
Albores-Saavedra J, Schwartz AM, Batich K, Henson DE (2009). Cancers of the ampulla of
Vater: demographics, morphology, and survival based on 5,625 cases from the SEER program.
J Surg Oncol 100, 598–605.
Aune D, Greenwood DC, Chan DS, et al. (2012). Body mass index, abdominal fatness and pancreatic
cancer risk: a systematic review and non-linear dose-response meta-analysis of prospective studies. Ann Oncol 23, 843–52.
Bassi C, Dervenis C, Butturini G, et al.; International Study Group on Pancreatic Fistula Definition.
(2005). Postoperative pancreatic fistula: an international study group (ISGPF) definition. Surgery
138, 8–13.
Berger AC, Howard TJ, Kennedy EP, et al. (2009). Does type of pancreaticojejunostomy after
pancreaticoduodenectomy decrease rate of pancreatic fistula? A randomized, prospective,
dual-institution trial. J Am Coll Surg 208, 738–47.
Burris HA 3rd, Moore MJ, Andersen J, et al. (1997). Improvements in survival and clinical benefit with
gemcitabine as first-line therapy for patients with advanced pancreas cancer: a randomized trial.
J Clin Oncol 15, 2403–13.
Cancer Research UK (2013). Pancreatic cancer statistics. Available at: M http://www.cancerresearchuk.org/cancer-info/cancerstats/types/pancreas/.
Carter JT, Grenert JP, Rubenstein L, Stewart L, Way LW (2008). Tumors of the ampulla of vater: histopathologic classification and predictors of survival. J Am Coll Surg 207, 210–18.
Conroy T, Desseigne F, Ychou M (2011). FOLFIRINOX versus gemcitabine for metastatic pancreatic
cancer. N Engl J Med 364, 1817–25.
Diener MK, Fitzmaurice C, Schwarzer G, et al. (2011). Pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy
(pp Whipple) versus pancreaticoduodenectomy (classic Whipple) for surgical treatment of periampullary and pancreatic carcinoma. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 11, CD006053.
Duell EJ, Lucenteforte E, Olson SH, et al. (2012). Pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer risk: a pooled
analysis in the International Pancreatic Cancer Case-Control Consortium (PanC4). Ann Oncol 23,
2964–70.
Eshuis WJ, van Eijck CH, Gerhards MF, et al. (2013). Antecolic versus retrocolic route of the gastroenteric anastomosis after pancreatoduodenectomy: a randomized controlled trial. Ann Surg
259, 45–51.
Ito K, Fujita N, Noda Y (2011). Endoscopic diagnosis and treatment of ampullary neoplasm. Dig
Endosc 23, 113–17.
Jacobs EJ, Chanock SJ, Fuchs CS, et al. (2010). Famly history of cancer and risk of pancreatic cancer: a pooled analysis from the Pancreatic Cancer Cohort Consortium (PanScan). Int J Cancer
127, 1421–8.
Jang KM, Kim SH, Lee SJ, et al. (2013). Added value of diffusion-weighted MR imaging in the diagnosis
of ampullary carcinoma. Radiology 266, 491–501.
Koti RS, Gurusamy KS, Fusai G, Davidson BR (2010). Meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials
on the effectiveness of somatostatin analogues for pancreatic surgery: a Cochrane review. HPB
(Oxford) 12, 155–65.
Larsson SC, Wolk A (2012). Red and processed meat consumption and risk of pancreatic cancer: meta-analysis of prospective studies. Br J Cancer 106, 603–7.
Michalski CW, Kleeff J, Wente MN, et al. (2007). Systematic review and meta-analysis of standard
and extended lymphadenectomy in pancreaticoduodenectomy for pancreatic cancer. Br J Surg
94, 265–73.
Moore MJ, Goldstein D, Hamm J, et al. (2007). Erlotinib plus gemcitabine compared with gemcitabine
alone in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer: a phase III trial of the National Cancer Institute
of Canada Clinical Trials Group. J Clin Oncol 25, 1960–6.
Mukherjee S, Hurt CN, Bridgewater J, et al. (2013). Gemcitabine-based or capecitabine-based
chemoradiotherapy for locally advanced pancreatic cancer (SCALOP): a multicentre, randomised,
phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 14, 317–26.
Neoptolemos JP, Stocken DD, Friess H, et al. (2004). A randomized trial of chemoradiotherapy and
chemotherapy after resection of pancreatic cancer. N Engl J Med 350, 1200–10.
Neoptolemos JP, Stocken DD, Bassi C, et al. (2010). Adjuvant chemotherapy with fluorouracil plus
folinic acid versus gemcitabine following pancreatic cancer resection. JAMA 304, 1073–81.
Pancreatic Section of the British Society of Gastroenterology, Pancreatic Society of Great Britain
and Ireland, Association of Upper Gastrointestinal Surgeons of Great Britain and Ireland, Royal
College of Pathologists, Special Interest Group for Gastro-Intestinal Radiology (2005). Guidelines

Ampullary carcinoma
for the management of patients with pancreatic cancer periampullary and ampullary carcinomas.
Gut 54 (Suppl 5), v1–16.
Parkin DM (2011). Tobacco-attributable cancer burden in the UK in 2010. Br J Cancer 105 (S2),
S6–S13.
Pessaux P, Sauvanet A, Mariette C, et al. (2011). External pancreatic duct stent decreases pancreatic
fistula rate after pancreaticoduodenectomy: prospective multicenter randomized trial. Ann Surg
253, 879–85.
Ramage JK, Ahmed A, Ardill J, et al. (2012). Guidelines for the management of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine (including carcinoid) tumours (NETs). Gut 61, 6–32.
Rebours V, Boutron-Ruault MC, Schnee M, et al. (2008). Risk of pancreatic adenocarcinoma in
patients with hereditary pancreatitis: a national exhaustive series. Am J Gastroenterol 103, 111–19.
Royal College of Pathologists (2002). Standards and minimum datasets for reporting cancers. minimum
dataset for the histopathological reporting of pancreatic, ampulla of Vater and bile duct carcinoma.
London: Royal College of Pathologists.
Topal B, Fieuws S, Aerts R, et al. (2013). Pancreaticojejunostomy versus pancreaticogastrostomy
reconstruction after pancreaticoduodenectomy for pancreatic or periampullary tumours: a multicentre randomised trial. Lancet Oncol 14, 655–62.
Verberke CS, Leitch D, Menon KV, et al. (2006). Redefining the R1 resection in pancreatic cancer.
Br J Surg 93, 1232–7.
Von Hoff DD, Ervin TJ, Arena FP, et al. (2013). Randomised phase III study of weekly nab-paclitaxel
plus gemcitabine versus gemcitabine alone in patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the
pancreas (MPACT). J Clin Oncol 30 (Suppl 34), abstract LBA148.
Wente MN, Bassi C, Dervenis C, et al. (2007). Delayed gastric emptying (DGE) after pancreatic
surgery: a suggested definition by the International Study Group of Pancreatic Surgery (ISGPS).
Surgery 142, 761–8.
Wente MN, Veit JA, Bassi C, et al. (2007). Postpancreatectomy hemorrhage (PPH): an International
Study Group of Pancreatic Surgery (ISGPS) definition. Surgery 142, 20–5.
Winter JM, Cameron JL, Olino K, et al. (2009). Clinicopathologic analysis of ampullary neoplasms
in 450 patients: implications for surgical strategy and long-term prognosis. J Gastrointest Surg 14,
379–87.
Xiong JJ, Altaf K, Mukherjee R, et al. (2012). Systematic review and meta-analysis of outcomes after
intraoperative pancreatic duct stent placement during pancreaticoduodenectomy. Br J Surg 99,
1050–61.

371

372

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Gall bladder
Epidemiology
•	Represents 0.2% of cancers, with 500 new cases per year in the UK, this
being one of the lowest international rates.
• Fifth commonest GI cancer worldwide and the commonest tumour of
the biliary tract.
• Globally, the incidence has dropped, possibly due to increasing rates of
cholecystectomy or screening programmes in high-risk populations.
• Incidental finding in one per 100 cholecystectomies, representing
30–40% of all gall bladder cancers, and these are usually of early stage.
• The incidence increases with age, with a peak incidence in the seventh
decade.
• The ♂:♀ ratio is 1:3.
• High incidence in Northern India, Chile, and Eastern Europe. Gall
bladder cancer is the most common cancer in women in Chile. In
the US, rates are highest amongst Hispanic and Native American
populations.

Aetiology
•	Related to gallstone disease, as at least 80% have cholesterol stones
which are usually large and long-standing. Gallstones are associated with
a 5-fold risk overall, this being 10-fold greater for larger stones than for
smaller stones. Overall, the risk of malignant transformation over a 20y
period for patients with gallstones is 1%.
• Bacterial infection is seen in 80%, and its role is related to stasis and
chronic inflammation, leading to carcinogenesis. Salmonella typhi and
paratyphi are the main organisms isolated from patients with carcinomas.
• Adenomas occur in the gall bladder, but the adenoma–carcinoma
sequence is not fully understood. Malignant polyps are typically seen in
patients aged >50y, and are single and >1cm in diameter.
• Porcelain gall bladder is a pre-malignant condition, with up to 15%
developing a carcinoma.
• ° sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is associated with an increased risk of gall
bladder carcinoma and gall bladder polyps.
•	Even in the absence of PSC, ulcerative colitis is associated with gall
bladder carcinoma.
• ♀ hormone exposure is linked to gall bladder carcinoma, with case
control studies indicating women with long oestrogen exposure are at
highest risk.
• A number of chemicals have been implicated, including rubber, vinyl
chloride, and organopesticides. Gall bladder carcinomas are also linked
to heavy metals (cadmium, chromium, lead) and radon exposure.
• The presence of a choledochal cyst or an anomalous pancreatobiliary
junction is also linked to a higher rate of gall bladder, as well as biliary,
cancers.
• Obesity increases the risk by up to 66%.
• Genetic links may exist, as gall bladder cancers are seen with an
increased incidence in Gardener syndrome, neurofibromatosis type 1,
and HNPCC.

Gall bladder

Pathology
• Most tumours arise in the fundus of the gall bladder.
• The majority are adenocarcinomas (85%), with histological subtypes
including papillary, tubular, and mucinous or signet cell.
• Carcinomas are also described according to their morphology and may
appear on imaging as a mass lesion (40–65%), wall thickening (20–30%),
or a polypoid lesion (15–25%).
• Papillary tumours have a lower incidence of lymph node metastases and
are associated with less local invasion and so have a better prognosis.
• Modes of metastasis include lymphatic, venous, direct invasion, and
transperitoneal spread, with peritoneal and liver capsule implants seen
in 20% at presentation.
• At presentation, only 25% have tumours limited to the gall bladder; 35%
have loco-regional disease, and 40% have metastatic disease.
• Other histopathological subtypes (15%) include squamous, anaplastic,
sarcoma, adenosquamous, small-cell carcinoma, neuroendocrine,
lymphoma, and melanoma.

Presentation
• Asymptomatic tumours are seen on the background of symptomatic
gallstone disease, and so right upper quadrant pain, nausea, and vomiting
are the common presentation.
• More advanced tumours present with pain, weight loss, and abdominal
distension. On examination, jaundice, abdominal mass, weight loss, and
ascites may be seen.

Investigation
• USS is the standard first-line investigation, with a sensitivity for gall
bladder cancer of 50–75%.
• Cross-sectional imaging with CT or MRI is used to assess loco-regional
disease, including hepatic invasion and lymph node metastases, as well
as distant metastases to the chest.
• Gall bladder cancer is PET-avid, and so PET-CT is a good means of
assessing distant metastases, lymphadenopathy, and residual disease in
the gall bladder bed, and so it is particularly useful in staging incidentally
discovered carcinomas prior to radical surgery.
•	EUS may be useful in evaluating the gall bladder in selected cases where
the diagnosis on cross-sectional imaging is unclear. It also allows the
assessment of the lymph node status and allows biopsy of the tumour/
nodes to be performed.
• Laparoscopy is useful for patients with known gall bladder cancer to
exclude peritoneal metastases prior to resection.
• Ca19.9 is elevated in patients with gall bladder cancer, but the test is not
sensitive for gall bladder cancer, as levels of Ca19.9 are also increased in
cholelithiasis, xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis, and jaundice which are
associated with the carcinoma.

Staging
• Staging of gall bladder carcinomas is according to the TNM classification
(see M https://cancerstaging.org to download the TNM staging).

373

374

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Treatment
Potentially curable disease
• If an unsuspected gall bladder carcinoma is found on histological
assessment after cholecystectomy, management depends on the
histopathological stage and radiological staging of the patient.
• Tis/T1a—if the cystic duct margin is clear, then no further surgery is
required, as the rate of positive lymphadenopathy is probably <1%.
If the cystic duct margin is positive, bile duct excision and regional
lymphadenectomy is indicated.
• T1b—this is the watershed area for the management of gall bladder
cancer. There is a paucity of RCTs on the subject, but data would
suggest that 10–12% of patients with this stage of disease would die
of relapsed disease. This makes the discussion of subsequent radical
surgery important with the younger patients.
• T2—a second radical surgical procedure should be performed, as
residual tumour is present in 50–75% of cases, and positive lymph
nodes identified in 15% and 50%, respectively. The precise nature
of the surgery varies between HPB units, as there are no consensus
guidelines, although evidence would suggest a more radical approach
is beneficial. Surgery should include excision of hepatic segments
4b and 5, regional lymphadenectomy, and, if the cystic duct margin
is positive, excision of the extra-hepatic bile ducts with biliary
reconstruction. Port sites should also be excised, as metastases
occur at these sites in around 20% of cases. Radical surgery confers
a substantial survival benefit in this group of patients which can
approach 80% at 5y, following radical surgery.
• For tumours detected during cholecystectomy, frozen sections should
be sent, and, if positive, the operation should be converted to a
radical cholecystectomy or closed and referred to a tertiary centre.
Preoperative features raising the suspicion of a carcinoma include
a mass lesion (40–65%), a polyp of size >10mm (15–25 %), or
asymmetric wall thickening (20–30%).
• For early tumours identified prior to cholecystectomy, an open radical
cholecystectomy should be performed, as described for T2 lesions.
• Most T3 tumours are identified preoperatively but occasionally are
incidental findings. A proportion of these lesions are suitable for
resection and often require excision of adjacent organs, as there is
evidence to suggest such a radical approach is worthwhile. Again, units
with large experience favour a right hepatic trisectionectomy to obtain
adequate margins. Occasionally, a pancreatoduodenectomy may be
required in addition, the so-called hepatopancreatoduodenectomy.
• A very small proportion of patients with T4 tumours may be candidates
for resection, along the lines described in E Treatment, p. 360.
• OS rate of <5%, with a median survival of 6mo. The results are better
for those amenable to surgery. For Tis/T1a disease, the survival rate
is close to 100%, and for T1b/T2 70–100%. For T3 tumours, the
5y survival is in the order of 50% after radical surgery, and for T4
lesions <25%.

Gall bladder

Adjuvant and neoadjuvant therapy
• No established benefits for either, but clinical trials are ongoing.
Locally advanced and metastatic disease
• For patients subjected to an exploratory laparotomy, based
on preoperative imaging, and found to be irresectable, a
hepaticojejunostomy may be possible.
• For advanced tumours presenting with jaundice, ERCP and PTC may be
used to stent the bile duct and provide palliation.
• Palliative chemotherapy for advanced disease in fit patients comprises
gemcitabine and cisplatin (the latter switched to oxaliplatin by some); in
less fit patients, single-agent treatment options include fluorouracil/FA,
capecitabine, or gemcitabine.

Further reading
Corvera CU, Blumgart LH, Akhurst T, et al. (2008). 18 F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission
tomography influences management decisions in patients with biliary cancer. J Am Coll Surg
206, 57–65.
Diehl AK (1983). Gallstone size and the risk of gallbladder cancer. JAMA 250, 2323–6.
Foster JM, Hoshi H, Gibbs JF, et al. (2007). Gallbladder cancer: defining the indications for primary
radical resection and radical re-resection. Ann Surg Oncol 14, 833–40.
Furlan A, Ferris JV, Hosseinzadeh K, Borhani AA (2008). Gallbladder carcinoma update: multimodality imaging evaluation, staging, and treatment options. AJR Am J Roentgenol 191, 1440–7.
Maker AV, Butte JM, Oxenberg J, et al. (2012). Is port site resection necessary in the surgical management of gallbladder cancer? Ann Surg Oncol 19, 409–17.
Rathanaswamy S, Misra S, Kumar V, et al. (2012). Incidentally detected gallbladder cancer—the controversies and an algorithmic approach to management. Indian J Surg 74, 248–54.

375

376

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

Biliary tract
Epidemiology
• Cholangiocarcinomas may arise within the intrahepatic or extra-hepatic
bile ducts. Extra-hepatic cholangiocarcinomas are further divided to
those around the hilum of the liver (hilar) and those affecting the
common bile duct (distal).
• 25–50% of tumours are intrahepatic, and 50–75% are extra-hepatic, of
which 70% are hilar and 30% are distal.
• Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas are the second commonest hepatic °.
• Incidence of 1 per 100 000 in Western populations.
• Account for 73% of all GI cancers worldwide.
• The ♂:♀ ratio is around 1.5:1.
• Typically seen in the seventh decade of life.
• Some data suggesting rates rising over the past decades for intrahepatic
cholangiocarcinomas and falling for extra-hepatic tumours.
• There is a geographical variation in incidence, with high-risk areas
including North East Thailand (100/100 000), Japan, Korea, Israel
(7.3), and Eastern Europe. The rate of cholangiocarcinomas in Native
Americans is 6-fold that of non-native populations.

Aetiology
• 70% are sporadic.
• PSC is associated with a lifetime risk of 6–36%. PSC is the commonest
risk factor in Western populations and is present in 10% of
cholangiocarcinomas. Most develop within 1–2y of diagnosis of PSC and
so are at a younger age; therefore, they need to be fully evaluated and
followed.
• Parasitic infections with liver flukes (Clonorchis sinensis and Opisthorchis
viverrini) in Asia are associated with a 5–28-fold risk. It is an attributable
factor in 88% of cases of cholangiocarcinoma in endemic areas.
• Hepatolithiasis is associated with 20% of cholangiocarcinomas in
Taiwan, but rare in the West. Often coexist with liver flukes, as
these are seen in 30% of patients with hepatolithiasis. Two to 10%
of patients with hepatolithiasis in high-risk areas develop intrahepatic
cholangiocarcinoma.
• Choledochal cysts are associated with between a 10- and 50-fold
risk, and an overall lifetime risk of 6–30%. Risk is greatest in Asian
populations where the prevalence of cholangiocarcinoma is higher and
the average age at presentation is 34y.
• A history of Thorotrast use is associated with a 300-fold risk.
• Malignant foci are identified in 40% of patients with biliary
papillomatosis.
• Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma is associated with ulcerative colitis, but
not Crohn’s disease.
• Other possible risk factors include choledocholithiasis, cholangitis,
chronic hepatitis B or C, cirrhosis, diet, obesity, smoking, alcohol
consumption, industrial toxins (dioxin, nitrosamines, polyvinyl chloride),
and aflatoxins.

Biliary tract

Pathology
• The commonest tumours are adenocarcinomas (95%). These are
divided into sclerosing (75%), nodular (20%), and papillary (5%)
subtypes, according to their morphology. The remaining 5% are mainly
squamous tumours.
• Tumours are further classified according to growth patterns into
mass-forming, periductal infiltrating, intraductal, and mixed types.
• Adenocarcinomas are believed to follow a sequence through hyperplasia
to dysplasia and on to carcinoma as a result of chronic inflammation.
• Hilar cholangiocarcinomas were first regarded as a separate entity by
Klatskin, and cancers in this region are referred to as Klatskin tumours.
• Metastases occur through lymphatic spread, direct invasion, and via the
biliary tree. Fifty per cent of patients have lymph node mestastases at
presentation, and a further 20% have peritoneal or distant metastases.
• Given the extent of resections required for cholangiocarcinomas,
histological confirmation is preferable prior to resection, although this
may be difficult to obtain. Historically, 5% of tumours are benign, one
of the commonest lesions being autoimmune cholangitis, and so serum
measurement of, and tissue staining for, IgG4 are important.
•	Resectability rates are highly variable and, in the best centres, are
around 75%, with a negative margin rate of 75%. However, many
centres report that only one-third of patients are resectable.

Presentation
• Most patients present with painless jaundice (90%), and 66% note
pruritus. The presence of pain, which is reported in 30–60% of cases,
suggests the presence of advanced stage. Weight loss is another
common symptom, seen in up to 50% of cases. 720% of patients
present with cholangitis.
• Clinical signs, apart from jaundice, are few in early-stage disease. In
advanced tumours, an abdominal mass and/or ascites may be present.

Investigation
• Ultrasound is the first-line investigation and is useful in confirming biliary
dilatation and its level and in excluding gallstones as the cause of jaundice.
USS may identify a tumour within the bile duct, and Doppler is useful for
assessing the patency of vessels at the hilum and within the liver.
• CT scanning provides details of the size and location of the tumour, as
well as an assessment of the presence of lymphadenopathy and distant
metastases. Vascular reconstructions of the vessels provide detailed
information on the likelihood of resection and may indicate the cause of
liver atrophy, if this is present. Measurement of the FLR will determine
the need for PVE ahead of liver resection.
• Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP)/MRI are useful
to determine the extent of invasion into the hepatic parenchyma, local
lymph node involvement, and vascular involvement. It is often preferred
over CT because of superior spatial resolution that allows better
delineation of the biliary tree and the extent of tumour infiltration into
the hepatic parenchyma. It is crucial that imaging is performed prior to
stenting of the biliary tree.

377

378

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

•	EUS allows an accurate assessment of the bile duct, in particular for
distal lesions, and allows biopsy of the tumour or lymph nodes to be
performed. PET-CT is beneficial in cholangiocarcinoma, as the tumour is
FDG-avid.
• Percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage (PTBD) is the preferred
method for drainage of the biliary system, allowing the resolution of
sepsis and the recovery of hepatic function. It is considered key in
Eastern series where cholangiocarcinomas are commoner, and there
is greater surgical experience with the condition. Multiple drainage
catheters are inserted to ensure all liver segments are drained.
• Laparoscopy should be performed in all patients due to high rates of
peritoneal spread. This is performed either as a staging operation or on
the day of resection prior to laparotomy.
• Cholangioscopy, using the SpyGlass® system, is used by some centres to
obtain adequate views of the tumour and tumour biopsies. Intraductal
ultrasound is also in some centres to assess the depth of tumour
invasion.
• Ca19.9 has a high specificity for distinguishing between benign and
malignant hilar strictures. However, it is not so reliable in the presence
of PSC.

Staging
• The Bismuth–Corlette classification is commonly used for the
classification of hilar tumours (see Table 17.5 and Fig. 17.5).
• The Blumgart classification (see Table 17.6) is also used for the
classification of hilar cholangiocarcinomas and is used to predict the
resectablity of tumours.
• The TNM staging systems for intra- and extra-hepatic tumours vary,
and there is further subdivision of the intrahepatic tumours, according
to hilar or distal biliary location (see M https://cancerstaging.org to
download the TNM staging).
Table 17.5 Bismuth–Corlette classification of hilar cholangiocarcinomas
Type

Details

I

Involves the common hepatic duct, distal to the confluence

II

Involves the biliary confluence

IIIA

Involves the confluence and the right hepatic duct

IIIB

Involves the confluence and the left hepatic duct

IV

Multifocal, or tumour involving the confluence and both the right and
left hepatic ducts

Adapted from Blechacz, Boris, Gores, Gregory. Cholangiocarcinoma, Clin Liver Dis 12 (2008)
131–150, with permission from Elsevier.

Biliary tract

Fig. 17.5 Hilar cholangiocarcinomas.
Table 17.6 Blumgart classification of hilar cholangiocarcinoma
Type

Details

I

Tumour involves the biliary confluence with unilateral involvement
up to the second-order biliary radicles. There is no portal vein
involvement or liver atrophy

II

Tumour involves the biliary confluence with unilateral involvement
up to the second-order biliary radicles. There is ipsilateral portal vein
involvement or ipsilateral liver atrophy

III

Tumour involves the biliary confluence with bilateral involvement up
to the second-order biliary radicles, or unilateral involvement up to 2°
biliary radicles with contralateral portal vein involvement, or unilateral
extension to 2° biliary radicles with contralateral liver atrophy, or
main/bilateral portal vein involvement

Adapted from: Jarnagin WR, Fong Y, DeMatteo RP, et al. (2001) Staging, resectability, and
outcome in 225 patients with hilar cholangiocarcinoma. Ann Surg; 234: 507–517, with permission
from Lippincott Williams & Wilkins.

Treatment
Potentially curable disease
Surgical resection
• Surgical resection is the only potentially curative treatment. However,
most patients (780%) present with inoperable disease.
• Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas:
• require a major or extended hepatectomy, with the extent of
resection depending upon the anatomical location of the tumour.
• Extra-hepatic cholangiocarcinomas:
• hilar tumours are treated by means of major hepatic resections,
usually a right hemihepatectomy for Bismuth stages I, II, and IIIA,
and a left hepatectomy for IIIB. A trisectionectomy is required for
stage IV tumours. In all cases, a full lymphadenectomy of N1 nodes
is performed, together with excision and reconstruction of the bile
duct. It can be argued whether to excise the caudate for other right
or left due to bilateral drainage—increases the 5y survival rates
• distal tumours are treated by means of a pancreatoduodenectomy
• small, early tumours arising in the middle portion of the duct may
sometimes be amenable to hepaticojejunostomy without resection
of the liver or pancreas

379

380

Chapter 17

Upper gastrointestinal cancer

a hepatopancreatoduodenectomy is sometimes indicated in fit young
patients who have multifocal disease or in whom positive frozen
section margins are identified
• it is important to perform frozen section analyses of the cut ends of
the bile ducts, as tumours frequently spread submucosally
• mortality is <5% and morbidity around 50% in contemporary series
of hilar cholangiocarcinomas. Fifty to 80% are infectious, including
wound infection, cholangitis, intra-abdominal abscess, pneumonia,
and hepatic abscess
• a protocol for liver transplantation, following neoadjuvant
chemoradiotherapy, was developed by the Mayo clinic and has
shown promise in highly selected populations, with other units
currently adopting the protocol, but without replication of their
excellent results
• the OS for cholangiocarcinoma is in the order of 6mo. For patients
undergoing resection, the 5y survival for intrahepatic tumours is
20–60%, for hilar lesions 30–50%, and for distal cholangiocarcinomas
20–50%.
•

Adjuvant and neoadjuvant therapy
• No proven benefit from either.
Locally advanced and metastatic disease
• Biliary obstruction in patients with extra-hepatic cholangiocarcinomas
may be relieved by surgical bypass in fit patients.
• Patients with obstructing intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas and
extra-hepatic lesions not amenable to surgical bypass should be
palliated with metal stents. These may be inserted at either ERCP or
PTC, depending on the location of the tumour, and, in many cases, a
combined procedure may be required.
• Photodynamic therapy may also have a role in palliation, although
further clinical trials are required.
• The combination of cisplatin and gemcitabine results in a significantly
improved median OS (11.7mo), compared with gemcitabine alone
(8.1mo), in patients with advanced disease, and it is the standard of care
chemotherapy regimen.

Further reading
European HPB Association (2008). Consensus conference on cholangiocarcinoma. HPB 2, 71–147.
Khan SA, Davidson BR, Goldin RD, et al. (2012). Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of
cholangiocarcinoma: an update. Gut 61, 1657–69.
Nimura Y, Kamiya Y, Kondo S, et al. (2000). Aggressive preoperative management and extended
surgery for hila cholangiocarcinoma: Magoya experience. J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg 7, 155–62.
Rosen CB, Heimbach JK, Gores GJ (2012). Liver transplantation for cholangiocarcinoma. Transplant
Int 23, 692–7.
Tyson GL, El-Serag HB (2011). Risk factors for cholangiocarcinoma. Hepatology 54, 173–84.
Valero V III, Cosgrove D, Herman JM, Pawlik TM (2012). Management of perihilar cholangiocarcinoma in the era of multimodal therapy. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol 6, 481–95.
Valle J, Wasan H, Palmer DH, et al. (2010). Cisplatin plus gemcitabine versus gemcitabine for biliary
tract cancer. N Engl J Med 362, 1273–81.

Chapter 18

Endocrine cancers
Thyroid cancer 382
Surgery for thyroid cancer 387
131
Iodine treatment for thyroid cancer 390
External beam radiotherapy for thyroid cancer 392
Targeted therapies for thyroid cancer 393
Chemotherapy for thyroid cancer 394
Surveillance, follow-up, and prognosis for thyroid cancer 395
Adrenal cancer 396
Neuroblastoma 400
Further reading 402

381

382

Chapter 18

Endocrine cancers

Thyroid cancer
Epidemiology and aetiology
• The incidence of thyroid cancer has more than doubled over the last
30y. It accounts for 71% of all malignancies in the UK, and 0.5% of all
cancer deaths.
• In the UK, there are >2500 new cases/year (2010 data, Office for
National Statistics).
• The ♀:♂ ratio is 3:1.
• The incidence peaks in the fourth decade, with a second peak at
age >70y.
•	Relatives of patients with thyroid cancer have a 10× i risk.
Differentiated (papillary, including follicular) carcinomas
• 70–75% of thyroid cancers are papillary carcinomas, i.e. differentiated
epithelial tumours.
• The only well-established risk factor is previous head and neck
irradiation, particularly in early childhood.
• 75% have ≥1 affected first-degree relative.
• Few rare inherited syndromes, e.g.:
• FAP
• Gardner’s syndrome.
Anaplastic (undifferentiated) carcinomas
• 75% of all thyroid cancers.
• Typically occurs in older patients than those with differentiated tumours;
the mean age at presentation is 65y.
• ♀ > ♂.
• >1 in 5 will have a previous history or coexisting diagnosis of
differentiated carcinoma.
• Up to 50% have a history of multinodular goitre.
Medullary carcinoma
• 3–5% of all thyroid cancers.
• Typically in fifth to sixth decades of life.
• Slight ♀ preponderance only.
• 75% of cases are sporadic.
• 25% of cases are familial, tending to occur in younger age groups, i.e.
third decade.
• If there is >1 case within the family, always consider the possibility of
familial disease, e.g.:
• MEN types 2a and b
• isolated familial medullary thyroid cancer.

Pathology and genetics
Differentiated (papillary, including follicular) carcinomas
• Typically unencapsulated ± cystic components.
•	Papillae consisting of a few layers of tumour cells surrounding a
fibrovascular core. Follicles and colloid are usually absent.
• 750% contain calcified psammoma bodies—scarred remnants of tumour
papillae.

Thyroid cancer

• >50% of sporadic cases have somatic gene rearrangements, e.g.:
• RET (rearranged during transfection) oncogene chimeric proteins
(mutated fusion protein RET/PTC) with TK activity that contribute
to the development of malignancy
• oncogenic mutations in the serine kinase BRAF and the TK RAS.
• No germline mutations identified so far.
Several histological subtypes, most of which are rare. Examples include:
• follicular variant:
• commonest subtype (715%)
• microscopically small to medium-sized follicles with near total
absence of papillae
• prone to haematogenous spread, but less likely to show lymphatic
invasion.
• tall cell variant:
• 71% of papillary cancers
• more aggressive than common-type papillary tumours—higher
incidence of local invasion and distant metastases at presentation.
Anaplastic (undifferentiated) carcinomas
• Undifferentiated tumour of the thyroid follicular epithelium.
Medullary
• Unencapsulated neuroendocrine tumour arising from the parafollicular
C-cells (the cell of origin of calcitonin).
• Variable histological appearances within a single tumour.
• 80% show amyloid deposition; 98% are calcitonin-positive.
• MEN type 2—autosomal, dominantly inherited syndromes arising from
different mutations in the RET proto-oncogene.
• MEN type 2a—100% get medullary thyroid cancer; 750%
develop phaeochromocytomas, and 730% get hyperplasia of the
parathyroid glands
• MEN type 2b—medullary carcinoma of the thyroid, which is
often bilateral and more aggressive and occurs at an earlier age.
Also marfanoid appearance, phaeochromocytomas, but normal
parathyroid hormone (PTH)
• Familial medullary thyroid cancer—variant of MEN type 2a
with similar high risk of medullary carcinoma, without the other
associated diseases.
• 50% of sporadic cases have somatic RET gene mutations too.
Other
• ° thyroid lymphoma.
• Metastases, e.g. from the breast or colon cancer.

Screening and prevention
Medullary carcinoma
•	Prophylactic thyroidectomy at an early age often appropriate, if known
carrier of predisposing gene mutation. The assessment and surgery in
these young patients are complex and should be carried out in tertiary
referral centres.

383

384

Chapter 18

Endocrine cancers

• For example, in MEN type 2b, a total thyroidectomy (without a
requirement for level VI central neck dissection) is recommended
in the first year of life by by both the British and American Thyroid
Associations.
• Screening with serum calcitonin:
• problematic
• supranormal serum calcitonin response to IV calcium suggests C-cell
hyperplasia or overt medullary carcinoma, but can get false positives,
e.g. in autoimmune thyroid disease.
• Screening now usually by molecular analysis for germline RET gene
mutations; 77% of apparently ‘sporadic’ cases are also positive for
germline mutations in the RET proto-oncogene, with significant
implications for family members.

Presentation
Differentiated (papillary and follicular) carcinomas
• Incidental microcarcinomas (<1cm) are a common finding at autopsy.
• The commonest clinical presentation is with a painless lump in the neck,
i.e. a solitary thyroid nodule.
• Clinical regional lymph node involvement at diagnosis commoner in
children (750%) than in adults. However, occult nodal involvement in
40–90% of adults.
• 2–10% have disseminated disease at presentation, most commonly
pulmonary or bony metastases.
• Most patients are clinically and biochemically euthyroid:
• Graves’s disease/toxic nodular goitre may coexist
• carcinomas synthesizing functioning T /T (tri-iodothyronine/
3
4
thyroxine) rare.
Anaplastic (undifferentiated) carcinoma
•	Rapidly enlarging neck mass that may be painful.
• Confluent bilateral lymphadenopathy.
• 90% have regional or distant spread at diagnosis.
• The commonest sites of metastases are lungs and bones.
• ± SVCO and/or Horner’s syndrome.
Medullary carcinoma
•	Painless lump in the neck, i.e. a solitary thyroid nodule (>75%).
• Usually unilateral.
• 20% have locally advanced disease at presentation, e.g. symptoms of
upper aerodigestive tract compression.
• 750% have clinically detectable cervical lymph node involvement at
diagnosis, and 15% have distant metastases.
• Large tumours may have an associated paraneoplastic syndrome, e.g.
Cushing’s syndrome due to corticotrophin secretion.

Thyroid cancer

Investigations
• Investigation of patients with suspected thyroid cancer, and their
subsequent management, should be coordinated by a specialist MDT
with expertise and interest in the management of thyroid cancer.
• The team will usually comprise a surgeon, endocrinologist, oncologist,
pathologist, radiologist, medical physicist, biochemist, and a
specialist nurse.
•	Depending on the clinical situation, the following investigations may be
considered:
• FBC and LFTs
131
• renal function—especially if considering radioiodine ( I) therapy
• TFTs
• calcitonin—produced by C-cells. Its role in the initial diagnostic
evaluation of patients remains controversial due to the frequency of
falsely high serum levels. Once a diagnosis of medullary carcinoma is
confirmed, a baseline level will establish whether the tumour is capable
of hypersecreting calcitonin, to assist with post-operative monitoring
• high-resolution thyroid ultrasonography and FNA—the false negative
rate varies from 0% to 5%, and the false positive rate is also usually
<5%. NB FNA cannot distinguish a follicular adenoma from a follicular
carcinoma; if the FNA report states ‘follicular lesion’, then at least a
thyroid lobectomy is essential. FNA, in the hands of an experienced
cytologist, can diagnose papillary, medullary, and anaplastic cancer.
• A recent review of thyroid incidentalomas has suggested that, if the
lesion is <10mm, without suspicious features, and the patient has
no risk factors, the lesion should not undergo FNA. However, if the
lesion is small (<10mm), but there is a bad family history, or if the
lesion is >10mm, with suspicious features on ultrasound, or solid and
larger than 15mm, all should have an FNA performed.
• If high risk of local disease extension (e.g. presentation with hoarseness,
stridor, dysphagia, or haemoptysis), consider:
• CT scan of the neck/mediastinum—assess for laryngeal involvement,
invasion of the great vessels, etc.
• MRI scan of the neck—evaluate any soft tissue invasion
• CT of the chest/liver
• skeletal scintigraphy—if there is any suspicion of bony disease. The
typical appearances are lytic lesions.

Staging
Differentiated (papillary) carcinomas
The staging system for differentiated carcinoma of the thyroid is based on
the ‘TNM system’:
• T—° tumour. Generally reflects the size of the tumour invasion beyond
the thyroid capsule (T4)
• N—involvement of regional lymph nodes
• M—absence (0) or presence (1) of distant metastases or inability to
assess for their presence (X).
The AJCC staging system from 2002 is an example (see M https://cancerstaging.org to download the TNM staging).

385

386

Chapter 18

Endocrine cancers

Anaplastic (undifferentiated) cancer
These tumours have a very poor prognosis—all are effectively stage IV (see
E Further reading, p. 402).
Medullary carcinoma
The staging system is based on:
• the tumour size
• local invasion
• nodal disease
• metastases.
Unlike in differentiated thyroid cancer, age is not a factor in the staging of
medullary thyroid cancer (see Table 18.1).
Table 18.1 Staging system for medullary carcinoma of the thyroid
Stage I

° tumour <1cm, with no evidence of disease outside the
thyroid gland

Stage II

° tumour >1cm or the presence of extrathyroidal invasion,
without nodal or distant metastases

Stage III

Local or regional nodal metastases

Stage IV

Distant metastases

Surgery for thyroid cancer

Surgery for thyroid cancer
Differentiated (papillary) carcinomas
For the primary tumour (papillary, follicular)
• Surgery is the ° mode of treatment.
• The aim is to perform definitive surgery at the outset.
• At least, a total lobectomy must be performed on the side of the tumour,
with identification of the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The prognosis,
following incomplete surgery (e.g. removal of a suspicious nodule) and
subsequent further surgery (e.g. completion thyroidectomy), may be
less good than if a total thyroidectomy had been performed at the start.
Furthermore, complications, such as recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy (1%),
in first-time surgery are much higher in repeat resections.
Surgical options include the following.
Unilateral total lobectomy
May be appropriate for selected low-risk patients, e.g. pT1 (<1cm), N0
women aged <45y. Increasingly, these small tumours are being treated with
lobectomy. Often, these very small tumours are being picked up incidentally
on CT scans in patients being monitored for other tumours such as lymphoma.
Total thyroidectomy
• The procedure of choice in most cases.
• The current guidelines of the American Thyroid Association (2009)
make specific recommendations as to the extent of thyroid surgery and
any associated neck dissection in specific clinical scenarios.
• For instance, if the nodule is indeterminate but >4cm, total
thyroidectomy is advised:
• when there is marked atypia
• when the FNA report features of papillary carcinoma
• in patients with radiation exposure
• and there are features of a family history of thyroid cancer.
• For patients with a thyroid cancer >1cm, a total thyroidectomy is
recommended, unless otherwise contraindicated to this surgery.
• A total lobectomy is reserved for differentiated thyroid cancer <1cm,
low risk, unifocal, and intrathyroid lesion, in the absence of head and
neck radiation.
• Therapeutic lateral neck dissection is required for biopsy-proven
metastatic lateral cervical nodes.
• Advantages include:
• many papillary tumours are multicentric
• up to one in five will recur after partial thyroidectomy
• local recurrence is associated with a poor prognosis, with up to
40% risk of death from metastatic disease (others argue this can be
treated with radioactive iodine)
• small risk of progression to anaplastic carcinoma
• subsequent monitoring for recurrence is easier (permits diagnostic/
therapeutic 131I scans)
• up to 50% of completion thyroidectomies are tumour-positive
• recent data on SLNB in thyroid cancer are showing some promise.

387

388

Chapter 18

Endocrine cancers

More extensive resection
• In pT4 tumours, the options are:
• extensive resection of all involved structures, e.g. larynx,
oesophagus, with potential loss of organ function, or
• conservative surgery with preservation of local structures, but
residual foci of disease, followed by EBRT.
•	Rates of local control and DFS are similar, but the QoL appears better,
following the more conservative surgery.
Long-term data (30y) from the Mayo Clinic show a 30y mortality of 2%,
irrespective of the extent of surgery.
Those who argue for a total lobectomy (only) quote an increased
risk of recurrent laryngeal nerve damage and hypocalcaemia after total
thyroidectomy.
Frozen section is rarely used for the thyroid mass with good preoperative fine-needle cytology. However, there may be a role for intraoperative
frozen section to investigate enlarged lymph nodes found at surgery.
Potential complications of thyroid surgery
•	Hypoparathyroidism.
•	Recurrent laryngeal nerve injury l hoarse voice and ‘bovine’ cough
(should be <1% in experienced hands). In parts of Europe, in particular
Germany, recurrent laryngeal nerve monitoring is being used in an effort
to avoid nerve palsy.
• Superior laryngeal nerve injury l inability to reach higher registers
with voice.
• Follow-up with thyroglobulin (TG) (serum) measurement is standard for
differentiated thyroid cancers.
• Bleeding—ranges from 0 to 6.5%. In some centres, in carefully selected
cases, thyroid surgery is performed as a day case. However, if the
surgery is a total thyroidectomy, then 24h observation is recommended.
Selective neck dissection
The extent of neck dissection should be dependent on:
• the size of the ° tumour, e.g. up to 80% of pT4 tumours will have
regional nodal involvement at presentation
• the clinical examination, e.g. the presence of palpable nodes
• intraoperative findings, e.g. suspicious nodes at surgery ± histological
examination of frozen section
• gross cervical metastatic disease should be treated with a modified
radical neck dissection.
Recurrent or metastatic disease
• If there is metastatic disease at presentation, total thyroidectomy and
ablation are usually still required, because optimal management is based
on the ability of most differentiated cancers to concentrate 131I.
•	Re-excision can be considered for locally recurrent disease.
• Occasionally, resection may also be appropriate for a solitary metastatic
deposit.
• Further surgery is usually followed by 131I therapy ± EBRT.

Surgery for thyroid cancer

Anaplastic (undifferentiated) carcinomas
• Usually inoperable at presentation (50% have lung 2° at presentation).
• The American Thyroid Association guidelines (2009) suggest that, if the
disease appears operable, especially the intrathyroid subtype, a total
thyroidectomy and therapeutic node dissection should be attempted.
Surgery offers the best chance of a prolonged period of symptom-free
survival.
• Total thyroidectomy may not produce any survival advantage over
ipsilateral thyroid lobectomy with wide margins of adjacent soft tissue.
However, this is rarely possible.
• Most anaplastic tumours in the UK are advanced and not surgically
resectable.
• Unless impending airway compromise, a tracheostomy or tracheal stent
are best avoided.

Medullary carcinoma
•	Preoperative screening for phaeochromocytoma (MEN type 2) and
hyperparathyroidism with i Ca2+(MEN type 2a).
• All patients should be treated by total thyroidectomy, where possible,
because:
• surgery is the only potentially curative intervention
• 20% have intra-glandular lymphatic spread
• 20% are RET oncogene-positive, even if the case is apparently ‘sporadic’
• a hereditary background may not be known
• radioactive iodine is not effective.
• The quality of lymph node dissection is paramount and appears to be
the sole surgical factor that can improve prognosis. The size of the °
correlates with the chances of metastatic lymphatic spread:
• <1cm l 11–50%
• >2cm l 60%
•	Palpable tumour l 85%.
• Usually surgery involves total thyroidectomy, and central and ipsilateral
neck node dissection. Virtually all centres recommend prophylactic
central node dissection (level VI), along with total thyroidectomy, by an
experienced thyroid surgeon (American Thyroid Association guidelines,
2009). If lateral cervical node spread is identified, then lateral neck
dissection (levels IIA, III, IV, V) should be performed, in addition.
• In medullary thyroid cancer, the involvement of central neck nodes is a
strong pointer to the involvement of ipsilateral lateral neck nodes (77%).
• Surgery with palliative intent can also produce long-term survivors, e.g.
re-operation for local recurrence or even resection of solitary metastases.
• Screening for disseminated disease, prior to further surgery, should
include laparoscopy to assess for liver metastases. Up to 20% of
patients with no hepatic disease identified on conventional imaging will
have liver 2° seen at laparoscopy.
• All familial cases (frequently bilateral) must have total thyroidectomy.
There are a number of subgroups of well-differentiated thyroid cancer that
are aggressive and require total thyroidectomy; these include the tall cell
variant, columnar cell variant, insular carcinoma, and Hurthle cell carcinoma.

389

390

Chapter 18

Endocrine cancers

Iodine treatment for thyroid cancer

131

I is used in the diagnosis and treatment of differentiated thyroid
carcinoma for:
• the ablation of residual thyroid tissue in selected patients
• the assessment of possible disease recurrence
• the treatment of known distant (131I -avid) metastases or gross
extension of the tumour beyond the thyroid.
131

I ablation of remnant thyroid tissue is recommended for all patients
whose tumour is >4cm. It is also recommended for selected patients with
thyroid tumour <4cm, if certain high-risk features are present (see E
Further reading, p. 402).
Post-thyroidectomy, there are typically up to 2g of functioning thyroid
remnant.131I is administered at doses sufficient to ablate residual thyroid tissue, including microscopic foci of malignancy. This:
• reduces the risk of local recurrence by 760%, compared to thyroid
suppression alone
• prolongs OS and DFS
• is effective against microscopic disease only; it is not a treatment for
macroscopic residual cancer
• increases the sensitivity and specificity of the subsequent screening
programme to identify persistent or recurrent disease.
131

Screening may be by:
• monitoring changes in serum TG levels (TG is secreted by normal and
>90% of cancerous thyroid cells, so ablation of all active thyroid tissue
should mean that TG is undetectable)
• diagnostic 131I scans.
Preparation for treatment with 131I requires:
• total thyroidectomy 71mo previously
• TSH stimulation, i.e. carefully scheduled thyroid hormone replacement,
a low-iodine diet (for 1–2wk), and no iodine-containing medication,
to maximize the chance of avid uptake of the iodine (NB Beware the
iodine load of CT contrast agents)
• the biochemical confirmation of hypothyroid status prior to
administration (patient likely to be feeling unwell by this stage)
• explanation to the patient—they will be confined to a single room
during their admission, interaction with nurses will be minimal, and
visitors will be limited, etc.
• sperm storage (for men, particularly if repeated treatments look likely).
Post-ablation, diagnostic 131I scans are performed to confirm the absence
of residual active thyroid tissue. The serum TG level should become
undetectable.
Potential acute toxicity of therapeutic 131I treatment includes:
• nausea
• sialadenitis
• cystitis/gastritis
• haemorrhage into metastases (rare).

IODINE TREATMENT FOR THYROID CANCER

Late effects include:
• a persistent dry mouth
• accelerated dental caries
• small risk of second (late) malignancies, particularly if repeated cycles of
treatment have been necessary, e.g. leukaemias, salivary gland tumours.
Replacement thyroid hormone therapy should be commenced, following
the ablation of active glandular tissue. The aim is for lifelong suppression
of TSH, i.e. the dose of exogenous hormone aims to maintain biochemical
hyperthyroidism to avoid a theoretical overstimulation of occult residual
tissue.
Diagnostic 131I scans can be repeated as part of post-treatment surveillance; >60% of differentiated thyroid cancers take up enough iodide to be
detected by 131I imaging.
Treatment doses of 131I can be repeated if:
• serum TG begins to rise
• further activity is observed on a diagnostic 131I whole-body scan,
indicating inoperable or metastatic disease, e.g. pulmonary metastases.
131
I can be curative in a small minority of patients with metastatic
disease.
There is no role for 131I treatment in medullary or anaplastic carcinoma—
these tumours are not iodine-avid.

391

392

Chapter 18

Endocrine cancers

External beam radiotherapy for
thyroid cancer
Differentiated (papillary and follicular) carcinoma
Following complete resection
• Adjuvant EBRT is not commonly used in this setting.
• It may be offered to selected patients whose tumours do not
concentrate 131I.
• It should also be considered after surgery and 131I therapy if:
• the ° tumour is large (pT4)
• there is extracapsular spread, with a high likelihood of microscopic
residual disease
• there are other poor prognostic features (see E Prognosis, p. 395).
• A typical treatment regime would involve 60Gy administered in 30
fractions. Treatment is usually in two phases, with lead shielding in the
second phase to avoid exceeding the spinal cord tolerance.
• Conformal techniques, CT planning, and IMRT allow reduction in the
dosage to normal tissue.
•	Potential acute side effects include cutaneous erythema, desquamation,
mucositis, and dysphagia. Late side effects include skin pigmentation and
the formation of telangiectasia.
Palliation
•	Role for EBRT:
• after incomplete resection—to improve local control of residual
tumour. One trial comparing the outcome in patients with
incompletely resected disease treated with either surgery alone or
post-operative radiotherapy found an increase in the 5y survival from
38% to 77%
131
• for symptomatic metastatic lesions, e.g. painful skeletal 2°, when
I
is often less effective
• for metastatic disease in critical locations.

Anaplastic (undifferentiated) carcinoma
• Consider post-operative radiotherapy for the small number of patients
whose tumours are completely resected.
• More frequently used with palliative intent for the local control of
inoperable tumours or for symptomatic metastatic disease. Up to 80%
will have a partial response for a short period of time.
• Stridor or SVCO are urgent indications for radiotherapy.

Medullary carcinoma
•	Post-operative EBRT for macroscopic remnant to maximize local
control.
• Alternatively, preoperative radiotherapy may cause an inoperable
tumour to become operable.
• Occasional avidity of uptake to MIBG makes radioiodinated MIBG
therapy a possibly useful therapeutic modality.

Targeted therapies for thyroid cancer

Targeted therapies for thyroid cancer
• A greater understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of some thyroid
cancers, in particular the identification of oncogenic mutations (see E
Pathology and genetics, p. 382) has led to growing interest in targeted
therapies.
• In the UK, use of these agents remains largely limited to within the context
of clinical trials. Given the absence of efficacious chemotherapy regimes
for progressive metastatic 131I-resistant differentiated thyroid carcinoma,
entry into clinical trials should be encouraged, wherever possible.
• If trial entry is being considered, analysis of the tumour sample for
common genetic mutations, e.g. RET, BRAF, MEK, etc. will often dictate
which trial availability. Trials increasingly restrict entry, to include only
patients whose tumours have proven mutations within specific genes.

Small molecule kinase inhibitors
• Mutations in the serine kinase BRAF and the TKs RAS and RET appear
to have a pathological role in a significant proportion of differentiated
thyroid cancers.
• Inhibiting the products of these mutated genes and the associated
receptor TK VEGF receptor (see Chapter 9) offers the prospect of
targeted treatment for selected thyroid cancers.
• Many relapsed thyroid cancers are hypervascular and have high levels of
VEGF expression.
Examples include:
• vandetanib:
• an orally administered small molecule TKI (see Chapter 9), which
inhibits VEGF receptor, EGFR, and RET
• licensed for the treatment of patients with progressive, symptomatic
medullary thyroid cancer, ideally after confirmation of a mutation in
the RET gene
• side effects include rash, photosensitivity, diarrhoea, nausea, and
prolongation of the QTc interval
• sorafenib:
• an orally administered multi-targeted small molecule TKI (see
Chapter 9), which inhibits common RET/PTC subtypes, members
of the BRAF kinase family, and PDGFRs and blocks the intracellular
domain of the VEGF receptor
• not currently licensed for the treatment of patients with thyroid cancer
• promising phase II data in patients with metastatic differentiated
thyroid cancer, with partial response rates of 15–40%, greater
proportions achieving stable disease, and PFS of 14–18mo reported
• sunitinib:
• an orally administered small molecule TKI (see Chapter 9), which
inhibits multiple targets, including the VEGF receptor and two of the
RET/PTC subtypes
• not currently licensed for the treatment of patients with
thyroid cancer
• limited phase II data only, but modestly encouraging results.

393

394

Chapter 18

Endocrine cancers

Chemotherapy for thyroid cancer
• Very limited role, particularly given the increasing interest in clinical trials
of targeted therapies.
• Only if surgery, 131I, or EBRT no longer appropriate and the patient
remains fit.
• Few prospective randomized trials.
• No role for adjuvant chemotherapy.
•	Response rates in metastatic disease are poor (10–30%), incomplete,
and of short duration.
• No evidence for improvement in OS.
• The standard first-line agent is doxorubicin.
• There are several trials supporting the use of dacarbazine combination
chemotherapy in medullary thyroid cancer.

SURVEILLANCE, FOLLOW-UP, AND PROGNOSIS

Surveillance, follow-up, and prognosis for
thyroid cancer
Surveillance and follow-up
Differentiated (papillary and follicular) carcinomas
• Most recurrences occur within 5y.
•	Regular physical examination, particularly of the neck.
• Serum T4, TSH, and TG at each visit. TG in the presence of a
suppressed serum TSH requires investigation.
• 75% of recurrent disease is not associated with i TG.
• ± CXR, USS of the neck, and diagnostic 131I imaging, depending on risk
factors.
Medullary carcinoma
• Clinical examination.
• Serial serum calcitonin levels.
• Screen for familial disease—all new cases of medullary carcinoma of the
thyroid should be offered genetics referral.

Prognosis
Papillary carcinoma
• Most patients with papillary carcinoma do not die of their disease.
• 10y survival of >90%.
• The prognosis for the follicular subtype is less good than for that for
common-type papillary carcinoma, e.g. 10y survival of 92% versus 98%.
• Stage IV disease still has a 5y survival of 725%.
•	Poor prognostic features include:
• >45y old
• larger ° tumour, e.g. >7cm
• bilateral or mediastinal lymph node involvement, or distant
metastases
• lymphocytic infiltration
• ♂ sex
• soft tissue or regional organ invasion, e.g. trachea, oesophagus, etc.
• The commonest site of initial relapse is local neck lymph nodes—
treatment is usually further surgical resection, followed by 131I therapy.
Anaplastic (undifferentiated) carcinoma
• Aggressive cancer with very poor prognosis.
• The median time from the first symptom to death is 3–7mo.
• 1y survival of 20–35%, and 5y survival of only 5–14%.
Medullary carcinoma
• No effective treatment in advanced disease. However, patients may live
for years, despite a high metastatic load, e.g. the median survival for
stages III/IV disease is 3–5y.
• Stage for stage, there seems to be no difference in prognosis between
sporadic and hereditary disease. However, patients with MEN type 2b
are more likely to have invasive disease at diagnosis, and hence fall into a
worse prognostic group.

395

396

Chapter 18

Endocrine cancers

Adrenal cancer
The adrenal gland is composed of:
• an outer cortex:
• mainly controlled by the renin–angiotensin system that regulates the
release of aldosterone
• an inner cortex:
• mainly controlled by the corticotrophin-releasing
hormone–corticotrophin (ACTH) system that regulates the release
of cortisol and adrenal androgens
• a medulla:
• which is part of the sympathetic nervous system.
Tumours arising in the cortex and medulla are aetiologically and functionally
different, reflecting their cells of origin.

Epidemiology and aetiology
Adrenocortical tumours
•	Rare–incidence 71.0 per 106 population.
• Account for only 0.2% of cancer deaths.
• Aetiology generally unknown—rare familial cases.
• Carcinomas even rarer—bimodal age distribution. Peak incidence
before 5y of age and in the fourth to fifth decades.
Medullary tumours
• Even rarer—incidence 70.6 per 106 population.
• 710% currently identified as familial, although this is likely to increase
with improvements in genetic analysis.
• Associated with MEN type 2 (germline mutation in RET
proto-oncogene; see E Medullary carcinoma, p. 389) and occasionally
vHL disease.

Pathology
Adrenocortical tumours
• Adenomas or adenocarcinomas of the adrenal cortex.
• If malignant, spread is via:
• local invasion of lymph nodes and the liver
• distant dissemination.
• 60% of all adrenocortical tumours are non-functioning.
• 40% are functioning, secreting steroids that may include oestrogens,
testosterone, and/or aldosterone.
Medullary tumours
• The commonest adrenomedullary tumour is a
phaeochromocytoma—golden or tan-coloured appearance
macroscopically.
• The majority are benign. Only 710% are malignant.
• Tumoral hypersecretion of epinephrine, norepinephrine, and/or
dopamine.
• 10% of phaeochromocytomas are extra-adrenal, i.e. they arise
elsewhere in the sympathetic chain; 10% are multiple.

Adrenal cancer

•	Hereditary phaeochromocytomas:
• often occur in younger age groups
• more likely to be bilateral and benign.

Presentation
Adrenocortical tumours
(See Table 18.2.)
• Incidental finding. The current National Institutes of Health (NIH)
position statement is that an incidentaloma <4cm (non-functioning)
can be monitored. Above 6cm, they should be excised laparoscopically,
because 30–80% will contain malignancy.
• ‘Pressure symptoms’, e.g. pain in the abdomen, symptoms from
metastatic disease.
• In functioning tumours, symptoms and signs will vary, according to the
predominant steroid hormone produced, e.g.:
• virilization—the commonest presentation of adrenocortical
carcinoma in children
• Cushing’s syndrome—the commonest presentation of
adrenocortical carcinoma in adults
• feminization—very rarely
• hypertension.
Medullary tumours
• Incidental finding.
•	During screening for associated familial syndromes.
• Intermittent, severe hypertension or essential hypertension.
• Classical presentation with episodic:
• headache
• sweating
• tachycardia/palpitations
• ± pallor or tremor.
Table 18.2 Endocrine syndromes associated with adrenocortical
tumours
Syndrome

Steroid

Cushing’s syndrome (ACTH-independent)

Cortisol

Conn’s syndrome/° hyperaldosteronism

Aldosterone

Virilization syndrome

Androgen

Feminization syndrome

Oestrogen

Precocious puberty syndrome/adrenogenital syndrome

Sex hormones

Non-functioning

None

Investigations
• Careful family history.
•	Hb, electrolytes, urea, LFTs.
•	Plasma catecholamines.

397

398

Chapter 18

Endocrine cancers

•	Plasma aldosterone-to-renin activity ratio.
• Urinary vanillylmandelic acid (VMA) and urinary catecholamines.
• Chromogranin assays.
• Serum and urinary cortisols.
• Blood oestrogen and testosterone.
• CXR, USS, CT, MRI of the abdomen to assess for potential metastatic
disease.
• USS of the thyroid gland (MEN).
• 123I-MIBG, octreoscan—medullary tumour.
• Selenocholesterol imaging—cortical tumour.

Surgery
• Surgery is the only treatment likely to achieve cure in benign disease or
in the small group of patients with localized malignant disease without
occult micrometastases.
• It may still be appropriate to resect the ° tumour in the presence of
metastases if it is slow-growing, or where there are a small number of
metastases, in order to achieve local control.
•	Radical resection (with adjacent nephrectomy, if necessary) is essential
for cure.
• Special preoperative considerations:
• correction of electrolyte abnormalities
• appropriate specialist BP control.
• Surgery may be:
• open—preferable for larger adenomas and carcinomas. Open
surgery is still preferred for obvious carcinomas, although there
are encouraging results for laparoscopic adrenalectomy with small
cancers; some centres are performing laparoscopic resections for
tumours over 6cm
• laparoscopic—longer operating time, less post-operative pain,
shorter hospital stay post-operatively. Long learning curve
• As laparoscopic experience increases, a well-functioning MDT should
discuss these complex tumours. A surgeon doing sufficient numbers
per year and an experienced anaesthetist are mandatory
• en bloc major resections of the tumour with adjacent organs are
usually done with open surgery.

Non-surgical options
Adrenocortical tumours
• Mitotane:
• orally administered adrenocorticolytic drug, with some efficacy in
patients with adrenal carcinoma
• first-line treatment in unresectable/metastatic tumours
• common side effects include nausea and anorexia. It may also cause
cortisol and aldosterone deficiency, necessitating replacement therapy
• control of the disease is usually transient, with symptomatic or
biochemical progression typically occurring after only 6–12mo.
• Metyrapone, aminoglutethimide, and ketoconazole:
• potential second-line medical therapies that can also reduce
excessive cortisol secretion.

Adrenal cancer

• Chemotherapy:
• limited benefit
• no randomized clinical trials
• the most active drugs appear to be cisplatin and etoposide
• patients should be referred for consideration of treatment within the
context of randomized clinical trials, wherever possible
• a recent phase II trial of bevacizumab, in combination with
capecitabine, produced no evidence of clinical benefit.
•	Radiotherapy:
• no established role in the management of adrenal carcinoma, as it is
rarely effective
• occasionally used for the treatment of symptomatic metastases,
usually in bone.
Medullary tumours
• Anti-hypertensive medication:
• may be required for phaeochromocytomas with residual or
unresectable disease to control the BP.
131
• I-MIBG:
• if the tumour takes up the radionuclide MIBG, a therapeutic dose
may be administered
• symptomatic, hormonal, and radiological improvements can be seen,
although these are transient
• the treatment can be repeated.
•	Radiotherapy:
• appropriate for painful skeletal metastases.
• Chemotherapy:
• may be considered for tumours that will not take up MIBG
• a combination of dacarbazine, vincristine, and cyclophosphamide
shows activity.

Prognosis
Adrenocortical tumours
• Almost all patients with benign disease are cured by surgery (usually
laparoscopic).
• The prognosis is poor for patients with malignant disease. Untreated,
the median survival is 3–9mo. Even if the carcinoma is small volume and
apparently confined to the adrenal gland, survival following surgery may
be as little as 14–36mo.
• The prognosis may be better in children.
Medullary tumours
• Surgical resection is not always curative, even in benign disease.
Long-term monitoring is therefore required. Subsequent recurrence
may have malignant characteristics.
• The 5y survival for malignant phaeochromocytoma is <50%, although
some patients live for many years without significant symptoms.

399

400

Chapter 18

Endocrine cancers

Neuroblastoma
• The commonest extracranial solid tumour in childhood.
• Incidence—peak age 1–3y.
• Tumours arise in sympathetic nervous tissue:
• 60% adrenal or elsewhere within the abdomen l pain, abdominal
distension, general malaise
• 15% intrathoracic l cough, pain, Horner’s syndrome, incidental
finding on CXR
• ± bone or bone marrow metastases l non-specific limb, joint, or
back pain, often misdiagnosed as arthritis or an irritable hip. May also
become pancytopenic from marrow involvement.
• Investigations:
• abdominal USS
• CT/MRI of the chest and abdomen
• MRI of the spine
• urinary catecholamines
• bloods, including serum LDH (elevation is a poor prognostic sign)
• serum neuron-specific enolase (NSE)
123
• ± technetium or
I-MIBG scan.
•	Pathology:
• ranges from an undifferentiated, small, round cell tumour (that
may be difficult to distinguish from rhabdomyosarcoma, primitive
neuroectodermal tumour (PNET), or NHL) to a highly differentiated
ganglioneuroblastoma
• biopsy can be done percutaneously, thorascopically, or with the
laparoscope.

Management
•	Depends on the tumour stage and the presence of certain genetic
features that may indicate a less good prognosis, e.g. amplification of the
n-myc oncogene.
• ‘Watch and wait’ policy—an option for tumours of early stage with
favourable biology. Spontaneous regression can be seen.
• Surgical clearance:
• if possible
• most thoracic, pelvic, and cervical primaries, and those abdominal
tumours that do not cross the midline, are resectable
• even subtotal resection in infants is beneficial
• local recurrences can be usually managed surgically
• many centres offer resection to patients with stage IV
neuroblastoma, and, if combined with systemic therapy, there is
some evidence of benefit.
• Neoadjuvant chemotherapy:
• may be used with the aim of making a localized, but inoperable,
tumour resectable
• chemotherapy is also used in disseminated, high-risk disease
• occasionally, high-dose chemotherapy, followed by autologous
haemopoietic stem cell rescue, may be considered.

Neuroblastoma

•	Radiotherapy:
• following incomplete resection or for tumours that remain
unresectable after induction chemotherapy.

Prognosis
•	Depends on the stage of the tumour (see Table 18.3), tumour genetics,
and the age at diagnosis.
• Children <1y old have a good prognosis, even in the presence of widely
disseminated disease, e.g. OS of 85% for stage 4S.
• This compares with an OS of <40% in children >5y old with
neuroblastoma of any stage.
Table 18.3 International staging system for neuroblastoma
Stage 1

Localized tumour with complete gross excision, with or without
microscopic residual disease; representative ipsilateral and
contralateral lymph nodes negative for tumour microscopically
(nodes attached to, and removed with, the ° tumour may be
positive)

Stage 2a

Localized tumour with incomplete gross excision; representative
ipsilateral and non-adherent lymph nodes negative for tumour
microscopically

Stage 2b

Localized tumour with complete or incomplete gross excision;
with ipsilateral non-adherent lymph nodes positive for
tumour. Enlarged contralateral lymph nodes must be negative
microscopically

Stage 3

Unresectable unilateral tumour infiltrating across the midline,
with or without regional lymph node involvement; or localized
unilateral tumour with contralateral regional lymph node
involvement; or midline tumour with bilateral extension by
infiltration (unresectable) or by lymph node involvement

Stage 4

Any ° tumour with dissemination to distant lymph nodes, bone,
bone marrow, liver, skin, and/or other organs (except as defined
in stage 4S)

Stage 4S

Localized ° tumour (as defined for stage 1, 2a, or 2b) with
dissemination limited to skin, liver, and/or bone marrow (limited
to infants <1y old)

401

402

Chapter 18

Endocrine cancers

Further reading
Almeida MQ, Hoff AO (2013). Recent advances in the molecular pathogenesis and targeted therapies of medullary thyroid carcinoma. Curr Opin Oncol 24, 229–34.
American Thyroid Association (ATA) Guidelines Taskforce on Thyroid Nodules and Differentiated
Thyroid Cancer, Cooper DS, Doherty GM, Haugen BR, et al. (2009). Revised American Thyroid
Association management guidelines for patients with thyroid nodules and differentiated thyroid
cancer. Thyroid 19, 1167–214.
American Thyroid Association Guidelines Task Force, Kloos RT, Eng C, Evans DB, et al. (2009)
Medullary thyroid cancer: management guidelines of the American Thyroid Association. Thyroid
19, 565–612.
Arnaldi G, Boscaro M (2012). Adrenal incidentaloma. Best Pract Res Clin 26, 405–19.
Aspinall SR, Ong SG, Wilson MS, Lennard TW (2013). How shall we manage the incidentally found
thyroid nodule? Surgeon 11, 96–104.
Balasubramanian SP, Harrison BJ (2011). Systematic review and meta-analysis of sentinel node biopsy
in thyroid cancer. Br J Surg 98, 334–44.
British Thyroid Association; Royal College of Physicians (2007). Guidelines for the management of thyroid cancer, 2nd edn. Available at: M http://www.british-thyroid-association.org/news/Docs/
Thyroid_cancer_guidelines_2007.pdf.
Cheung NK, Dyer MA (2013). Neuroblastoma: developmental biology, cancer genomics and immunotherapy. Nat Rev Cancer 13, 397–411.
Dralle H, Sekulla C, Lorenz K, et al. (2012). Loss of the nerve monitoring signal during bilateral
thyroid surgery. Br J Surg 99, 1089–95.
Elisei R, Pinchera A (2012). Advances in the follow-up of differentiated or medullary thyroid cancer.
Nat Rev Endocrinol 8, 466–75.
Kirschner LS (2012). The next generation of therapies for adrenocorticoid cancers. Trends Endocrinol
Metab 23, 343–50.
Nixon IJ, Shaha AR, Tuttle MR (2013). Targeted therapy in thyroid cancer. Curr Opin Otolaryngol Head
Neck Surg 21, 130–4.
Perez CA, Santos ES, Arango BA, Raez LE, Cohen EE (2012). Novel targeted therapies for refractory
thyroid cancer. Head Neck 34, 736–45.
Perros P, Boelaert K, Colley S, et al. (2014). Guidelines for the management of thyroid cancer. Clin
Endocrinol (Oxf ) 81 (Suppl 1), 1–122.
Promberger R, Ott J, Kober F, et al. (2012). Risk factors for postoperative bleeding after thyroid
surgery. Br J Surg 99, 373–9.
Smallridge RC, Ain KB, Asa SL (2012). American Thyroid Association guidelines for management of
patients with anaplastic thyroid cancer. Thyroid 11, 1104–39.

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers
Renal cancer 404
Wilms’ tumour 412
Cancer of the bladder and ureter 418
Prostate cancer 424
Management of prostate cancer 428
Testicular cancer 434
Management of testicular cancer 438
Penile cancer 442
Further reading 444

403

404

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Renal cancer
Epidemiology and aetiology
• 3% of all cancers, 9300 cases annually in the UK.
• Increasing frequency with age, most >60y.
• 1.5 times commoner in men.
•	Association with smoking (relative risk doubled).
• Other associations include urban dwellers, occupational exposure (e.g.
asbestos, benzenes, cadmium, nitrosamines, aflatoxins), obesity, and
chronic renal dialysis.

Genetics
The vast majority of adult renal cancers are sporadic, but an inherited predisposition causes 2%, and these may be multifocal/bilateral.
• vHL syndrome (1/36 000 births):
• VHL gene on chromosome 3 is a tumour suppressor gene
• germline loss/mutation of this gene leads to a multiorgan syndrome,
including cerebral haemangioblastoma and risk of RCC.
•	Hereditary clear cell carcinoma (germline alteration in chromosome 3
without other features of vHL).
•	Hereditary papillary renal carcinoma syndrome.
• Increased risk also in patients with autosomal dominant polycystic
kidneys or tuberous sclerosis.

Pathology
Adenocarcinomas make up 85% of renal cancers and arise from the renal
tubular epithelium. These RCCs were previously known as ‘hypernephroma’
or ‘Grawitz tumours’ and demonstrate several histological types:
• clear cell (75%)
• papillary
• chromophobe
• sarcomatoid features may be observed in each of these and convey a
worse prognosis.
RCC typically arises as a solitary mass in one pole of the kidney and, as it
progresses, may invade directly through the renal capsule, along the renal
vein towards the IVC or even into the right atrium, and via lymphatics to
regional nodes (para-aortic). Systemic metastases are common; macroscopic spread is present in 25% at presentation, typically to the lung or
bone, but also the liver, adrenals, brain, and skin.
Transitional cell carcinomas (TCCs) can arise within the urothelium of
the renal pelvis and represent the majority of the remaining tumours. They
vary from low-grade superficial papillary tumours to high-grade invasive
TCCs with the propensity for direct invasion into perinephric tissues and
lymphovascular spread.

Renal cancer

Investigations
Many are picked up on USS or IV urography (IVU), but CT is the preferred
imaging modality. Contrast-enhanced CT scan of the abdomen characteristically shows an enhancing mass, at least partly solid. CT should also be
used to image:
• the chest, for lung and mediastinal lymph node metastases
• extrarenal direct tumour extension, e.g. into the psoas muscle
• renal vein and IVC tumour thrombus
• regional para-aortic lymph nodes
• spread to other organs, e.g. liver, adrenals, bones, and the contralateral
kidney.
Biopsy is commonly omitted prior to surgical removal of renal cancer
because of the risk of haemorrhage and tumour seeding along the biopsy
tract. However, lesions 1.5–3cm in diameter are not infrequently benign,
so biopsy under USS or CT is often performed prior to surgery for these,
and for cases with advanced metastatic disease. Other required investigations include:
• FBC, biochemical profile
• isotope bone scan, particularly in patients with bone pain or elevated
alkaline phosphatase (note that renal bone metastases may be
photopenic or invisible on bone scan)
• CT of the brain if there is clinical evidence of CNS spread
• occasionally, MRI angiography or cavogram is required for locally
advanced tumours to assess IVC extension
• isotope renogram to assess the function of the contralateral kidney if
renal function impaired/small or scarred remaining kidney.

Staging
The Robson staging system is simple and commonly used (see Table 19.1).
Table 19.1 The Robson staging system
Stage

Description

% of cases

5y survival (%)

I

Confined to the kidney

20–40

50–60

II

Extends into peri-renal fat, but
confined to Gerota’s fascia

4–20

30–60

III

Involvement of renal vein or IVC
or lymph node involvement

10–40

20–50

IV

Involvement of adjacent organs
or metastatic disease

11–50

0–20

405

406

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Presenting symptoms and signs
Up to 30% are asymptomatic and are discovered coincidentally during
abdominal imaging for other reasons. Symptoms may relate directly to the
° tumour, but paraneoplastic effects are not uncommon:
• haematuria (50%)
• loin pain (50%)
• palpable mass (30%)
• anaemia (40%)
• weight loss (35%)
• pyrexia (20%)
• hypertension (37%)
• hypercalcaemia (6%)
• polycythaemia (<5%).
Renal tumours may invade directly into the adjacent psoas muscle or lumbar spine, causing pain, or may present de novo with symptoms from metastatic disease in the lungs, lymph nodes, bone, brain, or skin.

Surgery
Resection of all the tumour is the only established curative treatment and
should be offered to patients with operable disease without metastases,
who are fit for surgery. Patients with metastatic disease, but good performance status and resectable ° tumour, may benefit from nephrectomy as
a palliative procedure or to prevent the development of local symptoms:
• to provide control of local symptoms
• nephrectomy, followed by immunotherapy, provides a modest survival
benefit, compared with immunotherapy alone
• although there are documented cases of regression of metastases
following nephrectomy, this is extremely rare (<1%), and nephrectomy
cannot be justified on this basis in patients who are frail or have
extensive metastatic disease.
Surgical notes
• Radical nephrectomy includes the removal of Gerota’s fascia and its
contents, including the kidney and adrenal gland:
• some surgeons believe that the adrenal gland can be left safely
• laparoscopic nephrectomy is commonly performed to decrease the
morbidity of the open procedure—survival seems equivalent to the
open procedure.
• Partial nephrectomy (open or laparoscopic) is performed for small
localized tumours or in patients without a second kidney, or in the rare
case of bilateral renal cancer. Laparoscopic partial nephrectomy can be
difficult, but, with small tumours, survival seems to be equivalent to the
radical procedure in selected cases.
• For patients who are frail or elderly, small tumours may not require
resection but can be successfully managed by percutaneous RFA.
• Surgery for solitary metastases (e.g. lung, brain) is indicated for isolated
metastases, particularly those that occur after a long (>1y) disease-free
interval, and can result in prolonged survival in up to 30%.

Renal cancer

Although surgery is the cornerstone of management of localized disease,
some patients are unfit for nephrectomy or their tumour is unresectable.
Tumour embolization (infarction) may provide some tumour control but can
itself cause considerable morbidity. In some elderly asymptomatic patients,
conservative management is appropriate, and tumour growth may be slow.

Spontaneous remissions
One of the most pervasive tales of ‘oncological folklore’ is the expectation
of spontaneous remissions in renal cancer. Although these certainly occur,
the true rate is <1%, and they tend to occur in metastases following resection of the ° tumour or after an episode associated with immune activation such as that following severe sepsis. Such regressions are not usually
durable.

Adjuvant therapy
Given the relatively high frequency of systemic relapse after surgery for
stages I–II renal cancer, there is a clear need for effective adjuvant therapy.
Cytotoxic chemotherapies, endocrine therapy, radiotherapy, and immunotherapy have been tested. However, none of these adjuvant therapies
has been demonstrated to provide a survival benefit when combined with
nephrectomy. Clinical trials using novel targeted agents are ongoing (see
E Targeted therapy for renal cell carcinoma, p. 409; E Current trials of
targeted adjuvant therapy in RCC, p. 411.).

Radiotherapy
Renal cancer, in general, is relatively radioresistant. Palliative radiotherapy
is appropriate for:
• a painful or bleeding ° tumour
• non-resectable metastatic disease, e.g. bone, brain, soft tissue.
Higher palliative doses and large doses per fraction, compared with other
malignancies, may be appropriate to give durable control of the disease,
in particular with isolated non-resectable metastases after nephrectomy in
patients with good performance status.

Endocrine therapy
Progestins were widely prescribed for advanced renal cancer, following
the identification of PRs in some renal tumours and the observation of
anti-tumour activity in animal models. The objective response rate for systemic progestagen therapy is <10% and probably only 1–2% by modern
response criteria. However, the anabolic effects of progesterone may be
valuable in patients with advanced disease, whose QoL may improve on
this treatment. These agents increase the risk of venous thromboembolic
disease, which is already high in this disease.

Chemotherapy
Cytotoxic drugs are of little value in renal carcinoma. The chemoresistance
may, in part, be due to the high expression of an MDR phenotype in both
normal and malignant renal tissue. Response rates for single agents are
generally under 10%. Fluorouracil is one of the consistently active agents,
and recent interest has focused on the combination of gemcitabine and
fluorouracil.

407

408

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Biological therapy
The management of patients with unresectable and/or metastatic renal
cancer is palliative. There is, however, good evidence that a small subset
of patients, who have complete responses to biological therapy, may enjoy
disease-free survival for several years.
Biological therapy has been extensively tested in renal cancer, partly
because of its chemoresistance, but also because of the presumption that
immunological mechanisms underlie:
• occasional spontaneous regression of metastases
• very late relapses in some patients
• an increased incidence of renal cancers in immunosuppressed patients.
Interleukin-2
• Most widely tested biological agent in advanced renal cancer.
• Induces responses in 10–25% of patients with advanced disease.
• Patients with a complete radiological response have a significant survival
benefit, with remissions of several years in a few.
• Original studies of IL-2 employed high-dose IV IL-2, either alone or in
combination with LAK cells.
•	No evidence from randomized studies that LAK cells improve the
efficacy of IL-2.
• These regimens are associated with serious morbidity, in particular
capillary leak syndrome, including hypotension and pulmonary oedema.
• Less toxic s/c IL-2 regimens are probably equally effective and can be
combined with other agents, perhaps with greater anti-tumour effects.
• Other toxicities include flu-like symptoms and effects on bone marrow,
hepatic, and renal function, and the CNS and thyroid.
Interferon alfa
• Was been the preferred biological treatment for advanced renal cancer
in the UK until 2009.
•	As a single agent, s/c IFN provides a response rate of 8–15% but
without prolonged remissions.
•	An MRC trial compared s/c IFN with medroxyprogesterone acetate in
the treatment of metastatic renal cancer, and demonstrated a modest
improvement in median survival with s/c IFN (8.5mo versus 6mo).
• Toxicities of this drug are significant but not life threatening, in particular
flu-like symptoms, lethargy, anorexia, and nausea.
• Other side-effects include deranged LFTs, and effects on bone marrow,
renal function, and CNS.
Prognostic factors that predict higher response rates and prolonged survival
time after biological therapy include:
• long disease-free interval
• previous nephrectomy
• good performance status (0–1)
• normal LDH, Hb, Ca2+
• pulmonary metastases as the sole site of disease.
Combined biological therapy and chemotherapy
Although phase II studies have reported higher objective response rates
with combinations of IL-2 and IFN, with or without chemotherapy, so far

Renal cancer

phase III studies have failed to demonstrate a significant benefit with any
one combination regimen. The MRC RE04 study compared an IL-2/
IFN/fluorouracil regimen, developed by German investigators led by
Atzpodien, with a reported response rate of >30%, against single-agent
IFN. Disappointingly, although the response rate was higher with the combination regimen (24% versus 16%), survival was equivalent in both arms
(median survival of 18mo).

Targeted therapy for renal cell carcinoma
(See Table 19.2.)
The systemic treatment of this disease has been transformed in the last
few years with the advent of treatments targeted against VEGF. The majority of sporadic clear cell carcinomas of the kidney demonstrate an inactivation of the tumour suppressor gene VHL, with resultant overexpression of
VEGF. The pro-angiogenic effects of VEGF are mediated by its activation
of the VEGF cell surface receptor, and this has proved a fruitful target for
therapies.

Table 19.2 Targeted therapies for renal cell cancer
Drug

Dose regimen

Licensed
indications

Sunitinib

50mg PO daily First-line therapy
for 4wk, then advanced disease
14-day break
in good-risk
patients

Pazopanib

800mg PO
daily

First-line therapy
As above, but with less
advanced disease in fatigue, stomatitis, and
good-risk patients
hand–foot syndrome

Sorafenib

400mg PO bd

Second-line
therapy after IFN

Temsirolimus

25mg IV
weekly

First-line therapy in Lethargy, skin rash, hyperglypoor-risk patients caemia, hyperlipidaemia

Bevacizumab

10mg/kg IV
every 2wk, in
combination
with IFN

First-line therapy
advanced disease

Everolimus

10mg PO daily Second-line therapy Lethargy, stomatitis,
after sunitinib or
diarrhoea, cough
sorafenib

Axitinib

5mg PO bd
Increasing to
7–10mg bd if
no toxicity

Second-line
therapy

Side effects
Fatigue, nausea, stomatitis,
diarrhoea, hypertension,
hand–foot syndrome,
bleeding/bruising,
hypothyroidism, cardiac
dysfunction, rarely GI
perforation

Skin rashes, diarrhoea,
hypertension, hand–foot
syndrome

Fatigue, hypertension,
bleeding, rarely GI
perforation

Diarrhoea, hypertension,
fatigue

409

410

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Neutralizing antibody against vascular endothelial growth factor
Bevacizumab is a recombinant human mAb against VEGF:
• bevacizumab plus IFN improves the response rate and PFS, compared
with IFN alone (responses in 25% versus 13%).
Small molecule inhibitors of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor
pathway
• Sunitinib—oral TKI:
• sunitinib versus IFN study—750 patients with metastatic clear cell
RCC, no previous systemic therapy
• objective response rate of 47% versus 12%, with improved PFS
(11mo versus 5mo) and OS (26.4mo versus 21.8mo).
• Sorafenib—oral TKI:
• sorafenib versus placebo study—903 patients with metastatic clear
cell RCC, one previous systemic therapy, no previous VEGF pathway
inhibitor therapy
• response rate relatively low (10%), but a large number of patients
had prolonged stable disease, PFS (5.5mo versus 2.8mo).
• Pazopanib—oral TKI, similar anti-tumour activity, compared with
sunitinib, but possibly less toxicity.
• Temsirolimus—IV inhibitor of mTOR, key component in the intracellular
control of angiogenesis and cell cycle:
• temsirolimus versus IFN in poor-prognosis advanced renal
cancer—3.6mo survival benefit
• everolimus—oral analogue, an mTOR inhibitor, has demonstrated
significant benefit as second-line therapy after sunitinib or sorafenib.
•	Axitinib—oral TKI, has also shown significant improvement in PFS as
second-line therapy
Despite these results and the approval for their use in this disease in Europe
and the US, NHS patients are currently denied access to most of these on
the grounds of cost efficacy. Indeed, sunitinib was only approved by NICE
in 2009 for the treatment of renal cancer patients, joined by pazopanib in
2011, both as first-line therapy.

Management of transitional cell carcinoma
These tumours arise in the renal collecting system and may be associated
with TCC in the ureter and bladder. Their biology, management, and prognosis are similar to those of TCC of the ureter.

Treatment outcomes
The prognosis for non-metastatic renal carcinoma is related to the pathological stage of the disease post-nephrectomy, with 5y survival rates
between 60 and 20%, as in Table 19.1.
Although the prognosis for metastatic renal cancer is poor, with a median
survival time of <1y, the outlook for good-prognosis patients, as defined in
E Interferon-α, p. 408, is better, with a median survival of >2y.

Renal cancer

Controversies in the treatment of renal cancer
Current areas of uncertainty in advanced disease include:
• the optimum use of targeted therapies, sequence, or combination
• the prediction of response to targeted therapies
• the importance of nephrectomy as an adjunct to these therapies
• the role of immunotherapy after targeted therapy
• targeted therapy for non-clear cell RCC.
Current trials of targeted adjuvant therapy in RCC
Ongoing randomised controlled trials using axitinib, everolimus, pazopanib,
sorafenib, and sunitinib as post-operative adjuvant therapy will report over
the next few years.

411

412

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Wilms’ tumour
Wilms’ tumour (WT) is an embryonal neoplasm arising in the kidney and
the commonest abdominal malignancy in childhood. Multidisciplinary management in specialist centres, combined with international collaborative
research over the last 40y, has resulted in cure rates rising from 50% to
currently almost 90%.

Epidemiology
•	Accounts for 76% of childhood malignancies.
•	Around 70 cases per annum in the UK.
• ♂:♀ ratio 71.
• Peak age at diagnosis 3–4y.
• Rare after the age of 10y, but occasionally present in adults.
•	A number of conditions are associated with the development of WT:
• congenital genitourinary abnormalities
• hemihypertrophy
• aniridia.
However, the majority of patients demonstrate none of these features.

Genetics
WT1 is a tumour suppressor gene, located on chromosome 11, constitutively deleted in patients with WAGR syndrome (Wilms’ tumour Associated
with Aniridia, Genitourinary abnormalities, and mental Retardation). This
gene is also mutated or deleted in a number of sporadic cases of WT.
Beckwith–Wiedemann syndrome (WT associated with overgrowth) is also
linked with changes in chromosome 11, involving a second Wilms’ tumour
locus, WT2. A third Wilms’ tumour gene WTX has been identified on the
X chromosome.

Presenting symptoms and signs
•	Abdominal mass, smooth, rounded, or lobulated arising in the loin.
• Pain.
•	Haematuria.
• Fever, weight loss.
•	Hypertension.

Investigations
•	Abdominal USS to confirm the organ of origin of the mass, determine the
extent of spread within the abdomen, confirm the patency of the IVC.
• CXR to detect pulmonary metastases.
• FBC, biochemistry.
• Clotting screen—may acquire von Willebrand disease.
• Urinalysis.
• Urinary catecholamines to exclude neuroblastoma.
• Staging CT scan of the chest and abdomen.
It is important to know that the contralateral kidney is functioning adequately before surgery, and IVU, dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) scan, or
excretion of contrast at the end of a CT scan of the chest/abdomen are
useful in this role.

Wilms’ tumour

Pathology
Two broad groups of tumours may be recognized by their histological
appearances.
Favourable histology (90%)
• Classical triphasic histology—epithelial, blastemal, and stromal elements
are all present.
• Rhabdomyoblastic differentiation.
• Monomorphic epithelial variant.
Unfavourable histology
•	Anaplasia is an unfavourable feature, occasionally observed in triphasic
tumours.
• The major unfavourable histological types are probably distinct cancers,
rather than true variants of WT:
• bone-metastasizing renal tumour of childhood
• malignant rhabdoid tumour.

Staging
The National Wilms’ Tumor Study Group (NWTS) staging system is
commonly used:
• stage I—tumour confined within the renal capsule and fully resected
• stage II—tumour beyond the renal capsule, but fully resected;
preoperative biopsy; ruptured; confined to the flank
• stage III—tumour outside the capsule and incompletely resected; lymph
node involvement at the hilum or para-aortic chain
• stage IV—haematogenous metastases, e.g. to the lungs, liver, bone, or brain
• stage V—bilateral renal tumours.

Management
There is overwhelming evidence that WT must be treated only in paediatric
oncology centres, and there is no place for the casual therapist. Surgeons,
radiotherapists, paediatricians, or nephrologists not working in a centre with
paediatric oncological expertise who find themselves unexpectedly dealing
with a child with WT should make an urgent referral to an appropriate unit.
Surgery
Surgical resection is, and almost certainly will remain, the cornerstone treatment for WT. There is debate about the timing of surgery, the place of
percutaneous needle biopsy, and the use of preoperative chemotherapy.
US practice (NWTSG) remains steadfastly in favour of immediate surgery,
followed by adjuvant therapy dictated by the surgical stage. In contrast, the
International Society of Paediatric Oncology (SIOP) group in Europe has
conducted a series of trials, based on the use of preoperative therapy, and,
whilst it remains to be proven that the latter approach is superior, there
is increasing recognition that preoperative treatment may be of benefit in
some circumstances. Only 5% are suitable for partial nephrectomy. Usually
surgery is done by open technique (not laparoscopic) (best by a specialized paediatric surgeon) with wide excision, taking care to avoid rupture or
spillage of the tumour. The latter is associated with peritoneal recurrence.
In bilateral tumours, one tumour is usually smaller and may be amenable
to partial nephrectomy.

413

414

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Adjuvant therapy
The use of chemotherapy and radiotherapy as adjuvants to surgery is now
an essential part of WT treatment. Major advances in treatment have come
as a result of multicentre cooperative trials run by the US NWTS group (see
Table 19.3), SIOP, and the UK Children’s Cancer Study Group (UKCCSG).
In general, treatment is tailored to the stage and pathology of the individual child, each successive study aiming to maximize the probability of cure,
but minimize exposure to chemotherapy and radiotherapy. For example,
radiotherapy can now be safely omitted in patients with stages I and II, with
favourable histology.
The initial studies of adjuvant chemotherapy used vincristine and dactinomycin, and these remain the mainstay of treatment for the majority of
patients. Doxorubicin improves the outcome in stages III and IV, and other
agents, such as carboplatin, etoposide, and cyclophosphamide, are active in
poor-prognosis and relapsed disease.

Outcome of treatment
The favourable outcome of treatment for the majority is illustrated in Table
19.4 and Table 19.5. Currently, around 75% of children with WT can be successfully treated without doxorubicin or radiotherapy, minimizing the risk
of late effects. Nonetheless, close follow-up, including CXR and abdominal
USS, is mandatory. Following relapse, long-term survival of 30–40% may be
achieved through salvage therapy (see Table 19.6 for current treatment).
Late effects may include the impairment of:
• growth
• lung function
• cardiac function
• renal function
• hepatic function
• fertility
• second malignancy.

Wilms’ tumour

Table 19.3 Main findings in NWTS 1, 2, and 3
NWTS 1
Group I

Patients under 2y of age do not all need radiotherapy

Groups II/III

AMD plus VCR is better than either alone

Group IV

Preoperative VCR is of no benefit

Other findings

Unfavourable histology and lymph node involvement are
adverse features

NWTS 2
Stage I

No patient benefit from radiotherapy, regardless of age; 6mo
of VCR and AMD is as good as 15mo

Stages II, III,
and IV

Addition of doxo to VCR and AMD improves survival

Other findings

Stages II and III have the same survival. Local spillage and
invasion of the renal vein do not affect outcome

NWTS 3
Stage I

10wk therapy with VCR/AMD is as effective as 6mo

Stage II

Intensive VCR/AMD is as effective as three drugs; addition of
radiotherapy does not affect survival

Stage III

Intensive VCR/AMD is as effective as three drugs; 10Gy flank
irradiation is as effective as 20Gy

Other findings

Addition of cyclophosphamide to VCR/AMD/doxo does not
improve survival

AMD, actinomycin; doxo, doxorubicin; VCR, vincristine.

Table 19.4 Outcome for patients in NWTS III
Stage

2y relapse-free
survival (%)

2y OS (%) Treatment

I

92

97

10wk vincristine plus actinomycin D

II/III

87

91

15mo vincristine plus actinomycin
D plus doxorubicin

III

78

86

10Gy plus vincristine plus
actinomycin D plus doxorubicin

IV plus UH

72

81

UH, unfavourable histology.

415

416

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Table 19.5 Outcome for patients in UKW1 study
Stage

3y event-free
survival (%)

3y OS (%)

6y event-free
survival (%)

6y OS (%)

I

90

96

89

96

II

85

94

85

93

III

82

83

82

83

IV

58

65

50

65

Table 19.6 Current treatment for WT
Stage

Treatment

I, low risk

No adjuvant therapy

I, intermediate risk

Adjuvant vincristine, actinomycin

I, high risk

Adjuvant vincristine, actinomycin, doxorubicin

II, low risk

Vincristine, actinomycin

II–III, intermediate
risk

Vincristine, actinomycin, ± doxorubicin

II–III, high risk

Cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, etoposide, carboplatin,
and radiotherapy

Metastatic

Neoadjuvant vincristine, actinomycin, doxorubicin,
then surgery, then further chemotherapy ± etoposide,
carboplatin, and radiotherapy

Wilms’ tumour

417

418

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Cancer of the bladder and ureter
Epidemiology
• Fourth commonest ♂ cancer.
• ♂:♀ ratio 72:1.
• 10 500 new cases in the UK each year.
• Two-thirds occur aged >70y.

Aetiology
• Cigarette smoking increases the risk by 2–6-fold.
• Occupational exposure to a number of carcinogens, including aromatic
amines, is associated with an increased risk, with a latent interval of
20–30y.
• Occupations at risk include:
• aniline dye and the rubber industries
• gas and foundry works
• rodent care and other laboratory work
• sewage treatment
• textile printing
• firelighter manufacturers.
• Chronic irritation of the bladder, e.g. infection, stones, long-term
catheter, or schistosomiasis—associated with squamous cancer of the
bladder.
• Previous pelvic radiotherapy, e.g. for gynaecological cancer.

Pathology
The majority (>90%) of urothelial tumours presenting in the UK are TCCs.
Less common pathologies include:
• squamous carcinomas associated with chronic irritation
• adenocarcinomas arising from urachal remnants in the bladder dome
• metaplasia in a TCC may give rise to carcinosarcoma or neuroendocrine
carcinoma, both associated with poor outcome.
Typically, the disease presents with a superficial tumour involving only the
bladder epithelium, but, in 25%, there is tumour invasion into the detrusor muscle of the bladder, and 5% present with metastatic disease to the
regional lymph nodes, lung, liver, or bone. Pathological grading (I–III) correlates well with the natural history of the disease. Multifocal disease is
not uncommon, although exposure of the entire lining of the urinary tract
to the relevant carcinogens and a history of TCC of the bladder carry an
increased risk of TCC arising anywhere in the urothelium.

Genetics
No convincing evidence of a hereditary predisposition exists. TCCs have
a number of characteristic chromosomal abnormalities, including, in particular, the loss of chromosome 9. Other common abnormalities include a
mutation of the p53 gene that appears more often in advanced cancers and
has been associated with an increased risk of treatment failure.

Cancer of the bladder and ureter

Staging (TNM)
See M https://cancerstaging.org to download the TNM staging. The management and prognosis of TCC of the bladder are largely determined by
the stage of the disease and its pathological grading. There is a strong association between well-differentiated tumours and early stage at presentation.
Seventy per cent of new patients present with superficial disease, of
which at least half have Ta tumours. Although around 50% of these develop
recurrent superficial bladder cancers, few progress to advanced disease.
CIS has a worse outlook, with up to 60% progressing to invasive disease if
recurrent disease is not eradicated.
There is a significant risk of metastatic disease with high-grade T1 disease,
and this rises with increasing stage of muscle-invasive disease.

Investigations
• FBC, biochemistry profile.
• Cystoscopy and transurethral resection of bladder tumour (TURBT):
• provide the pathological diagnosis and stage
• should include resection through the underlying detrusor muscle to
confirm/refute muscle invasion
• biopsy other areas of abnormal-looking epithelium (CIS often
appears as a red patch)
• following cystoscopic resection, pelvic examination under anaesthetic
should confirm the presence/absence of a residual pelvic mass
(presence indicates at least T3 disease).
• For low-grade superficial tumours, no further imaging is required.
High-grade superficial tumours do carry a significant risk of synchronous
disease in the upper urinary tract and should have an IVU or, more
commonly, a CT urogram after diagnosis.
• For G3 pT1 and muscle-invasive disease, staging with CXR and either
CT or MRI scan of the abdomen and pelvis is required, looking
particularly at:
• the tumour extent in the bladder and extravesical extension of the
tumour into adjacent fat/organs
• pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenopathy
• ureteric obstruction
• bone, liver, and lung metastases.

Presentation
• 80–90% have frank haematuria, usually painless.
• Irritative bladder symptoms, e.g. frequency and dysuria, may be
associated with muscle-invasive disease or CIS
• Less often present with unexplained microscopic haematuria.
•	Asymptomatic disease may be picked up at routine cystoscopy in
patients with previous bladder cancer or upper tract TCC.

419

420

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Management options
Superficial tumours (70% newly diagnosed cases)
• Ta and low-grade (G1–2) T1 tumours are resected cystoscopically.
•	A single post-resection infusion of intravesical mitomycin reduces the
risk of recurrence.
• Because of the risk of recurrent disease, regular cystoscopic follow-up is
required.
• Recurrent disease managed by intravesical therapy with mitomycin,
epirubicin, or BCG.
• Tis commonly responds to intravesical BCG, but recurrences are
common and may be multifocal.
• Refractory Tis often best managed by cystectomy.
• G3T1 tumour management is controversial:
• >50% risk of recurrence, up to half of which may be invasive TCC
• significant risk of regional and metastatic disease
• initial treatment of solitary tumour often comprises TURBT, followed
by intravesical therapy
• multifocal or recurrent disease requires staging and management as
for muscle-invasive disease
• radiotherapy is not of benefit in preventing recurrence.
Muscle-invasive bladder cancer
Given the high rate of recurrence and metastatic spread after TURBT,
all patients with invasive disease should be considered for further treatment. Options should be discussed both by the MDT and with the patient,
including:
• radical cystectomy
• radiotherapy and bladder conservation
• neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy.
Radical surgery
The usual procedure is cystoprostatectomy in ♂ patients or anterior
bladder exenteration in ♀ patients, with dissection of local lymph nodes.
Bladder resection is associated with urinary diversion, most commonly a
non-refluxing ileal conduit and urinary bag. Complications include loss of
erectile function in the ♂ and shortening of the vagina in the ♀. It is important for patients to have advice from a stoma therapist before surgery.
Increasingly, excellent results can be achieved in selected patients treated
by radical cystectomy with continent diversion, based on urinary tract
reconstruction by ileocystoplasty. This can produce urinary continence,
and, in experienced centres, the surgical complication rates are <10% and
operative mortality <2%.
The role of laparoscopic cystectomy and robotic surgery is currently
unclear.

Cancer of the bladder and ureter

Radical radiotherapy
Many UK patients with invasive TCC of the bladder, in particular the elderly
with significant co-morbidities, have been treated with radiotherapy.
• Radiotherapy is planned, using a CT scan, to define the target volume.
• Conventionally, the entire bladder and prostatic urethra are treated
using a 3- or 4-field plan.
• Common treatment regimens include 64Gy/32 fractions or 52.4Gy/20
fractions.
• Side effects include cystitis and diarrhoea, and late reduction in the
bladder capacity.
• Cystoscopic follow-up is particularly important:
• to diagnose and resect recurrent bladder tumour
• to offer salvage cystectomy to selected patients with recurrent
invasive disease who remain fit for surgery.
• Frail patients unfit for radical surgery or radiotherapy may benefit from
short-course palliative radiotherapy to the bladder, ideally CT-planned,
e.g. 21Gy/three fractions/5 days.
•	A number of studies have reported improved results when radical
radiotherapy is combined with systemic chemotherapy, either given
prior to radiotherapy or concomitant with radiotherapy.
• For patients with unifocal bladder cancer, it may be unnecessary to
irradiate the whole bladder, and clinical trials are under way, exploring
the benefits of partial bladder radiotherapy ± chemotherapy.
Table 19.7 compares these two treatment modalities. Surgery remains the
preferred option for many patients with good performance status, particularly those with multifocal disease and/or irritative bladder symptoms.
Table 19.7 Surgery versus radiotherapy as curative treatment for
invasive bladder cancer
Radical surgery

Radical radiotherapy

In favour

Complete pathological staging
Best local and loco-regional
control rates
Best survival rates

Bladder conservation
Option for salvage cystectomy
Feasible in patients with extravesical
extension and significant
co-morbidities

Against

Major pelvic surgery, not
feasible in many patients
because of co-morbidities
and frailty
Loss of normal bladder and
sexual function

Poor results in multifocal disease
and Tis
Normal tissue damage, radiation
cystitis, and enteritis
May worsen urinary symptoms by
reducing bladder capacity

421

422

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Chemotherapy
(See Table 19.8.)
Combination chemotherapy has an established role in the palliation of
patients with advanced bladder cancer. Cisplatin-based regimens, such as
MVAC (MTX, vinblastine, doxorubicin, cisplatin), were developed in the
1980s and found to have high objective response rates (750%), although
few patients survive beyond 2y. During this time, the preferred regimen in
the UK was CMV (cisplatin, MTX, vinblastine, no doxorubicin).
These regimens were found to be toxic, especially for patients with poor
performance status and impaired renal function. Life-threatening toxicity,
e.g. neutropenic sepsis, was common. The combination of gemcitabine and
cisplatin has been shown to be as effective as MVAC, with reduced toxicity,
and has largely superseded the older regimen.
In view of the chemosensitivity of this disease, a number of trials have
examined the benefits of neoadjuvant and adjuvant chemotherapy, in combination with either surgery or radiotherapy. A meta-analysis of these
trials has demonstrated that cisplatin-based chemotherapy given before
cystectomy or radical radiotherapy affords a modest survival benefit, 75%
improvement at 5y. Patient selection for this treatment is crucial, but fit
patients with muscle-invasive disease should be considered for chemotherapy prior to local treatment.
Recent results from the UK study of synchronous chemo-irradiation with
the relatively non-toxic combination of mitomycin and fluorouracil, compared with radiotherapy alone, have shown significant improvement in the
local control of bladder cancer with combined modality treatment which
can be delivered in patients unfit for cisplatin-based chemotherapy.
Future treatments
• Other cytotoxics, including the taxanes, are active in this disease.
• Molecular-targeted therapies are being investigated.
• Molecular markers are being sought, which may optimize the selection
of local treatment (surgery versus radiotherapy) for individual patients.

Treatment outcomes
The prognosis for superficial disease is good, with 5y survival rates in excess
of 80%.
The outlook for invasive disease is less good, with estimated 5y survival
rates after cystectomy:
• T2, 50–70%
• T, 30–40%
• T4, 20%.
There are no randomized studies comparing the results of bladder conservation using modern radiotherapy against ° treatment with radical cystectomy. Many patients treated with radiotherapy would not be candidates for
radical surgery but may still achieve successful bladder conservation. The
best results with radical radiotherapy appear to follow TURBT for a solitary T2 tumour. Poor results are obtained with T4 disease and squamous
carcinomas.
For metastatic disease, treatment with chemotherapy is associated with a
median survival time of around 1y, but <10% survive 2y.

Cancer of the bladder and ureter

Table 19.8 Examples of chemotherapy regimens for bladder cancer
MVAC
MTX
Vinblastine
Doxorubicin
Cisplatin

30mg/m2 days 1, 8, 15
3mg/m2 days 2, 8, 15
30mg/m2 day 2
70mg/m2 day 2

q 4wk

MTX

30mg/m2 days 1 and 8

q 3wk

Vinblastine

4mg/m2 days 1 and 8

Cisplatin

100mg/m2 day 2

CMV

Gemcitabine cisplatin
Gemcitabine

1000mg/m2 days 1, 8, 15

Cisplatin

70mg/m2 day 2

q 4wk

or
Gemcitabine
Cisplatin

1250mg/m2 days 1 and 8
70mg/m2 day 1

q 3wk

Renal pelvis and ureteric transitional cell carcinoma
These uncommon tumours range from superficial low-grade disease to
aggressive muscle-invasive cancer with a high propensity for distant spread.
Presentation may be with ureteric obstruction, haematuria, or symptoms
related to advanced disease. The tumour is commonly visible on IVU and
may be biopsied via a flexible ureteroscope. Staging requires CT or MRI
scan of the abdomen and pelvis, as well as cystoscopy to look for synchronous bladder TCC.
Localized disease is usually treated by nephroureterectomy with removal
of a cuff of the bladder. Adjuvant therapy trials have not been conducted,
but advanced disease may be treated with chemotherapy and palliative
radiotherapy, as for TCC of the bladder.

423

424

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Prostate cancer
Cancer of the prostate gland is one of the most controversial malignancies
with regard to its treatment. Despite its high incidence—now the commonest ♂ cancer in Europe and the US—for many men with this diagnosis, the
optimum management is uncertain, with a spectrum of treatment options,
ranging from active surveillance only to complex surgery or IMRT.

Epidemiology
Prostate cancer has now overtaken lung cancer as the commonest ♂ cancer in the UK.
• >30 000 new cases per annum, and the incidence is continuing to rise.
• Lifetime risk 1 in 14 men.
• Rare in men aged <50y.
• 85% of men are diagnosed at age 65y or older.
•	Autopsy studies have estimated that 70% of men aged >80y have
histological evidence of cancer in the prostate.
• Despite the rising incidence, only 9500 deaths per annum are caused
by prostate cancer in the UK, and many men with this diagnosis die of
other causes.

Aetiology
Its pathogenesis is clearly androgen-dependent, and men who are castrated
or develop hypopituitarism before 40y rarely develop prostate cancer.
•	Age is the most important risk factor.
• 5–10% of cases appear to be linked to the inheritance of a susceptibility
gene, particularly cases arising at a young age.
•	At present, the only identified genes include BRCA1 and 2, but these
do not account for the majority of cases with a family history.
• Linkage analysis suggests that there is a hereditary prostate cancer
locus on chromosome 1q 24–25.
• Race—60% increased incidence in African-Americans, often with poor
prognosis, compared with white Americans; uncommon in Asian men.
• Dietary factors may explain some racial differences.

Pathology
Ninety-five per cent are adenocarcinomas; rare pathologies include neuroendocrine and TCCs; 70% arise in the peripheral zone of the gland, and
many are multifocal.
The natural history of the disease correlates well with its histological
grade, assessed by the Gleason score. Low-grade cancers (Gleason 6) are
typically small and slow-growing, confined to the prostate gland. High-grade
cancers (Gleason 8–10) grow faster and frequently invade through the
prostate capsule, can directly infiltrate adjacent organs (seminal vesicles,
bladder, rectum), and commonly disseminate early to regional lymph nodes
and by vascular invasion, typically to bone, but also occasionally to the lung
and liver.

Prostate cancer

Screening for prostate cancer
Since the development of assays to measure serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) to diagnose prostatic disease, this condition has been increasingly diagnosed at an earlier stage. In 1974, in the UK, >50% of patients
presented with metastatic disease. Forty years later, the majority of patients
are diagnosed with organ-confined disease as a result of PSA testing, with
few, if any, symptoms of prostatic disease. Although population screening
is not recommended in the UK (the topic is again currently under political review), PSA testing is recommended in all men with lower urinary
tract symptoms and is also performed frequently as part of general health
screening in ° care. As a result, increasing numbers of patients are now
diagnosed with asymptomatic early-stage disease.
Prostate-specific antigen
Measurement of serum PSA has limitations as a screening test for prostate
cancer. Conventionally, PSA >4 micrograms/L was viewed as an indication
for prostatic biopsy. However:
• normal PSA range increases with age
• many centres have adopted these cut-off levels to guide the selection of
patients for prostate biopsy:
• 6.5 micrograms/L age >70y
• 4.5 micrograms/L age 60–70y
• 3.5 micrograms/L age 50–60y
• 2.5 micrograms/L age 40–50y
• PSA may be elevated in the absence of prostate cancer, e.g. benign
prostatic hyperplasia, prostatitis
• one in four men with PSA >4 micrograms/L will be found to have
cancer on biopsy of the prostate
• but around one-third of prostate cancers will have PSA <4
micrograms/L
• specificity, but not sensitivity, can be improved by measuring free or
total PSA, or both
• digital rectal examination findings are important—40% of men with a
palpable abnormality have a tumour
• higher levels of PSA (>20 micrograms/L) correlate well with the
tumour stage and grade.
Prostate-specific antigen screening in the United States
Currently, PSA testing is recommended for all US men aged 50–75y,
although the optimum frequency of testing is uncertain, with every 2–4y
suggested. In the US, in 1995, with the widespread use of PSA testing in
asymptomatic men, nearly 400 000 patients were diagnosed with prostate cancer; in the same year, 738 000 patients died of prostate cancer. In
Europe, with largely no screening, 85 000 patients were diagnosed, and
around 20 000 died of prostate cancer. These figures suggest that too many
cases of clinically insignificant disease were diagnosed in the US and treated
without clear evidence of survival benefit. However, over the last 10y, the
mortality rate from prostate cancer in the US has fallen, and advocates of
PSA screening have claimed this as evidence of success of the programme.

425

426

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Certainly, a number of positive features are observed in screen-detected
prostate cancer:
• the majority have low-grade early-stage disease
• treatment outcomes are excellent, with most patients free of disease
after 10y follow-up.
However, this is at enormous cost to health resources, with significant morbidity in a number of patients, many of whom were destined never to have
clinically significant prostate cancer. Interestingly, the number of patients
receiving radical treatment for prostate cancer in the UK has quadrupled
in the last 15y, and it is anticipated that survival improvements, similar to
those in the US, may be observed in UK prostate cancer deaths in the next
decade.
Clinical trials of prostate-specific antigen screening
Conventionally, the establishment of population screening for a malignant disease requires that randomized studies have demonstrated that
the screening process results in a reduction of mortality from the relevant
cancer. Such trials have now been completed, in particular the American
Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, and Ovarian (PLCO) Cancer Screening trial and
the European Randomized study of Screening for Prostate Cancer trial.
Initial reports show no reduction in prostate cancer mortality rates with
PSA screening.

Staging
The TNM staging system is used (see M https://cancerstaging.org to
download the TNM staging).

Investigations
Patients with lower urinary tract symptoms should have digital rectal examination and PSA testing offered. All patients having PSA tested should be
counselled that:
• the test may detect cancer in 75% of men aged 50–65y
• the test will fail to detect up to 25% of cancers
• biopsy and further treatment, if cancer is found, carry the risk of some
morbidity, with no guarantee of improved life expectancy.
Asymptomatic patients with elevated PSA should also be assessed by digital
rectal examination (40% of palpable nodules are malignant). Transrectal USS
and prostatic biopsy are required for patients with PSA >4 micrograms/L
or age-adjusted normal range, and patients with normal PSA but a palpable abnormality in the gland. Up to four biopsy cores are taken from
each lobe, with antibiotic cover. The prostate volume is measured by ultrasound, relevant symptoms recorded, e.g. by the International Prognostic
Scoring System (IPSS) questionnaire, and the urinary flow rate may also be
measured.
In patients with biopsy-proven cancer, further investigation depends on
the stage, grade, PSA, and planned treatment.
MRI scan of the prostate and pelvis provides the most accurate estimate
of the loco-regional tumour extent for patients being considered for surgery or radiotherapy.

Prostate cancer

Isotope bone scans are required only for T3–4 tumours, Gleason 8–10,
PSA >15 micrograms/L, or patients with symptoms/signs/biochemical evidence of bone metastases.

Presenting symptoms and signs
• 750% are asymptomatic with elevated PSA.
• Urinary symptoms, e.g. frequency, nocturia, poor stream, retention,
haematuria:
• these are commonly due to coincident benign prostatic hyperplasia
• symptoms may be scored, e.g. using the IPSS.
• Locally advanced prostate cancer may cause:
• impotence due to neurovascular bundle infiltration
• haemospermia
• ureteric obstruction and renal failure
• rectal symptoms, e.g. tenesmus, bleeding
• lymph node spread with lymphoedema in the legs and genitals
• bone metastases with pain, fracture, nerve root or spinal cord
compression, or malignant hypercalcaemia
• rarely liver, pleura, or lung metastases.

427

428

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Management of prostate cancer
Metastatic disease
Although distant spread of prostate cancer is incurable, the majority of
patients can have excellent palliation of their symptoms and a survival time
of at least 2y with appropriate therapy. The growth of prostate cancer is
androgen-dependent, and a number of hormone treatment options are
effective.
Surgical castration
•	Achieves permanent reduction in circulating androgens.
• Inexpensive.
• Major toxicities include impotence and loss of libido, fatigue, mood
disturbance, and muscle weakness.
• In long-term survivors, causes osteoporosis.
• May not be acceptable to patient.
Medical castration
• LHRH agonist, e.g. goserelin, buserelin, leuprorelin.
•	Administered as depot s/c injection (expensive).
• Causes initial flare with a rise in testosterone, followed by a fall to
castrate level.
• Therefore, requires anti-androgen cover for the first 2wk after the first
injection (e.g. bicalutamide, flutamide, or cyproterone acetate).
• Similar toxicities to surgical castration, but also flushing and sweats,
weight gain.
• Reversible effects, but may take many months for the testosterone level
to recover after withdrawal of the LHRH agonist.
• The LHRH antagonist degarelix has been shown to provide prompt
effective anti-androgen therapy without androgen blockade and may
be considered in patients requiring rapid effective treatment, e.g. with
advanced spinal metastasis.
Androgen blockade
•	Non-steroidal agents, e.g. bicalutamide or flutamide:
• anti-cancer effects are rather less but may preserve libido and sexual
potency because of incomplete androgen blockade
• may cause gynaecomastia.
• Steroidal—cyproterone acetate:
• not recommended for long-term use because of toxicities
(thromboembolic disease, hepatotoxicity).
Maximal androgen blockade
• Combination of surgical or medical castration plus androgen blockade
•	No clear evidence of superior outcomes, compared with
castration alone.
Hormonal treatment options are summarized in Table 19.9.

Management of prostate cancer

Table 19.9 Hormonal treatment options for prostate cancer
First line

Second line

Third line

Surgical castration

Add androgen
antagonist

Withdrawal of
androgen antagonist

LHRH agonist

Add androgen
antagonist

Withdrawal of
androgen antagonist

Androgen antagonist

Add LHRH agonist

Fourth line

After a median of 2y of androgen deprivation, patients with metastatic
prostate cancer demonstrate evidence of disease progression, initially
asymptomatic with rising PSA, then with symptomatic progression of the
disease, most commonly painful bone metastases. These patients may be
treated with second-line hormone therapy.
• The introduction of an androgen blocker, e.g. bicalutamide, in
combination with surgical or medical castration, leads to PSA response
in 720%; duration of response of 2–6mo.
• Patients who respond to maximal androgen blockade and then have
a PSA rise may respond again, following withdrawal of the oral
anti-androgen.
Castration-resistant metastatic disease
Disease progression can still be influenced by hormonal manipulation:
• inhibition of the production of adrenal androgens by low-dose steroids
or ketoconazole
• low-dose oestrogens (diethylstilbestrol 1mg daily, often with aspirin
thromboprophylaxis)
• recent trials of abiraterone, an inhibitor of the enzyme CYP17A1,
key to androgen biosynthesis, have shown benefit after failure of
established second- and third-line treatments. The survival of patients
who had already received at least second-line hormone therapy and
chemotherapy with docetaxel was extended by 4mo (14.8mo versus
10.9mo) when they were treated with abiraterone and prednisolone,
compared with prednisolone only. Further benefits have been shown
in a trial in patients who had not received chemotherapy, with delay in
disease progression and an improvement in survival
• similar benefits have been seen with enzalutamide, a novel inhibitor of
androgen receptor binding.
Radiotherapy and chemotherapy for metastatic disease
Palliative EBRT has been used successfully for many to alleviate symptoms
from metastatic prostate cancer.
• Painful bone metastases may be treated with low-dose radiotherapy, e.g.
8Gy/one fraction.
• Spinal cord or nerve root compression may be treated with
short-course radiotherapy, e.g. 20Gy/five fractions.
• Symptomatic soft tissue disease, e.g. prostatic ° or lymph node
metastasis, may be treated with similar doses.

429

430

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

• Radioactive strontium, administered as a single IV injection (150MBq),
provides targeted irradiation to multiple bone metastases:
• gives pain relief and delays the need for further analgesia and
radiotherapy
• well tolerated but does cause significant myelosuppression
• recent trials, using multiple doses of radium-223, an α particle
emitter, have shown not only effective dose-dependent pain relief,
but also improved survival from metastatic disease.
Chemotherapy traditionally was viewed as ineffective and inappropriate for
the majority of patients, due to the limited number of active agents, age and
frailty of these patients, and marrow compromise by both metastatic disease and radiotherapy. Radiological assessment of the objective response
to treatment can be difficult in patients with only sclerotic bone metastasis.
However, chemotherapy can be of benefit:
• mitoxantrone, usually in combination with low-dose prednisolone,
causes PSA response (>50% reduction in PSA) in around one-third, with
accompanying symptom relief
• docetaxel has been shown to cause more frequent PSA responses and
improves the median survival time by about 2mo, when compared with
mitoxantrone
• carbazitaxel has shown some activity in patients who have progressed
after docetaxel chemotherapy.
Bisphosphonate therapy, using monthly infusions of zoledronic acid, has
also been shown to delay the symptomatic progression of bone metastases,
but the optimum timing to commence bisphosphonates and the duration of
therapy remain to be defined.

Organ-confined prostate cancer
For patients diagnosed with early-stage prostate cancer, several treatment
options may be considered. The selection of the most appropriate option
depends on consideration of:
• the life expectancy of the patient, taking into account the age and
co-morbidities
• the predicted natural history of the prostate cancer, determined by the
stage, PSA, and Gleason score
• the patient’s preferences, often with consideration of the likely toxicities
of treatment.
Risk stratification for localized prostate cancer
Commonly, the disease is categorized as follows:
• Low risk
T1–2a and PSA <10 micrograms/L and Gleason 6
• Intermediate risk T2b–c or PSA 10–20 micrograms/L or Gleason 7
• High risk
T3–4 or PSA >20 micrograms/L or Gleason 8–10

Management of prostate cancer

Radical prostatectomy
For patients <70y, without significant co-morbidities and with low- or
intermediate-risk disease, radical surgery gives excellent DFS rates. The
approach may be retropubic or perineal, the former allowing pelvic lymph
node sampling. Alternatively, initial lymph node sampling may be performed
laparoscopically, avoiding major surgery in patients who have positive lymph
nodes. Post-operative problems have been reduced with improvements in
surgical technique but may include:
• urinary incontinence, rarely (75%) persists beyond 6mo
• impotence, previously inevitable after prostatectomy, with nerve-sparing
procedures may be prevented in 50%
• after prostatectomy, the PSA should fall promptly to <0.1
micrograms/L. Patients with positive resection margins may benefit
from post-operative radiotherapy to the prostate bed. The role of
adjuvant hormonal therapy in such patients is being explored (MRC
Radiotherapy and Androgen Deprivation in Combination After Local
Surgery (RADICALS) trial)
• increasingly, radical prostatectomy is being undertaken laparoscopically
with excellent results. Laparoscopic radical prostatectomy in
experienced hands (there is a definite learning curve) gives as good
functional and oncological results as the open procedure, with more
rapid recovery. The advantage for robotic prostate surgery is unclear,
although a number of specialized centres have this expensive facility.
Radical radiotherapy
For patients with low-, intermediate-, or high-risk disease, where metastatic
disease has been excluded by MRI or CT scan of the pelvic and retroperitoneal lymph nodes and, where appropriate, by isotope bone scan, radical
radiotherapy offers an alternative curative treatment option. There are no
randomized trials comparing surgery and radiotherapy for early prostate
cancer, but stage-for-stage rates of DFS after radiotherapy compare favourably with surgery. In addition, many patients treated by radiotherapy are
unfit or have disease that is too extensive for surgery.
External beam radiotherapy
High doses of ionizing radiation are required to eradicate prostate cancer.
Using CT-planned conformal radiotherapy, doses of 74Gy in 37 fractions
can be safely delivered to the prostate, with acceptable normal tissue reactions and a high rate of DFS. Prior treatment with 3–6mo of anti-androgen
therapy reduces the prostatic volume by about 30% and is recommended in
intermediate- and high-risk disease. In high-risk disease, there is now good
evidence to support the continuation of adjuvant anti-androgen therapy
(usually an LHRH agonist) for 2–3y after radiotherapy, with an improvement in survival at least in locally advanced disease. EBRT fields can encompass the tumour that is invading through the prostate capsule.
Common toxicities of radiotherapy to the prostate include:
• acute radiation cystitis/urethritis with urinary frequency, poor stream,
and dysuria
• acute radiation proctitis with tenesmus, pain, and passage of mucus
and blood
• late effects, including impotence in 750% (and all patients receiving
anti-androgen therapy) and rectal bleeding from telangiectasia.

431

432

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

There is evidence that irradiation of the pelvic lymph nodes, as well as the
prostate gland, reduces the risk of relapse in men with intermediate- or
high-risk disease. Many centres are currently using IMRT techniques to
facilitate irradiation of the lymph nodes and prostate, with reduced normal
tissue damage, in particular the bladder and rectum. Clinical trials are also
under way to compare prolonged-course radiotherapy using 2Gy fractions
with shorter hypofractionated regimens using IMRT.
Brachytherapy
Permanent implantation of radioactive iodine seeds (125I) under transrectal ultrasound control may be used to deliver a dose of 7140Gy to the
prostate, again with excellent results in organ-confined prostate cancer. This
treatment is contraindicated in patients who have marked urinary outflow
symptoms, very small or large prostate volumes, or previous transurethral
resection of the prostate (TURP). It avoids the inconvenience of 7–8wk of
EBRT and has similar toxicities:
• radiation urethritis—may require a urinary catheter for some days
• radiation proctitis
• impotence—probably less frequent than with EBRT.
Neoadjuvant and adjuvant hormone therapy may be used with brachytherapy, as for EBRT.
An alternative approach is to combine brachytherapy with EBRT, the
former commonly delivered using a single temporary insertion of a
high-dose-rate (HDR) applicator.
Hormone therapy alone
Androgen deprivation has been used for many years to treat patients with
localized prostate cancer if they are unfit for radical surgery or radiotherapy.
However, such treatment has only a temporary impact, in terms of delay
of tumour progression, and, although normal PSA levels may be maintained
for a number of years, hormone-refractory disease eventually develops if
patients survive many years. There is controversy surrounding the timing of
hormone therapy for non-metastatic prostate cancer, particularly when this
is asymptomatic. For unfit elderly patients with high-risk disease, for whom
radical treatment is not appropriate or feasible, immediate treatment with
androgen deprivation may be preferred to watchful waiting.
Active surveillance
Particularly for patients aged >70y with low-risk cancers, a policy of expectant management is appropriate. The Scandinavian Prostate Cancer Group
has recently published 10y results of their randomized study of watchful
waiting versus radical prostatectomy. This study clearly demonstrates benefits of radical treatment for prostate cancer, in terms of reduction in the
risk of local recurrence, metastatic disease, the need for hormone therapy,
and death from prostate cancer. However, these benefits appear to be in
patients who are <65y, often with intermediate-risk disease.
Active surveillance is recommended for patients with low-volume and
low-grade prostate cancer (T1–T2, <50% core biopsy-positive, Gleason 6
carcinoma, and PSA <15ng/mL). Protocols which aim to minimize the risks
of missing disease progression during active surveillance include regular PSA
estimation, clinical assessment, and repeat prostate biopsies every 2y. In

Management of prostate cancer

addition, many clinicians repeat MRI imaging every 2y. Patients who develop
progressive disease (rising PSA, clinical evidence of disease progression, or
worsening grade on repeat biopsy) during active surveillance should be considered for radical treatment.
Prostate-specific antigen failure
A rising PSA level after radical prostatectomy or radical radiotherapy
may herald the development of local recurrence or metastatic disease.
Predictors of the latter are:
• a short interval from treatment to PSA rise
• PSA doubling time <6mo
• involved surgical margins, pelvic lymph nodes, or seminal vesicles at
prostatectomy.
Patients with features suggesting local recurrence after surgery may be candidates for radiotherapy. Rising PSA after radiotherapy may be managed
expectantly, or with androgen deprivation, or with salvage local therapy,
e.g. prostate cryotherapy. There is controversy surrounding the benefits,
morbidities, and timing of these interventions.

Treatment outcomes
The prognosis of early prostate cancer is excellent, with median survival
times >10y for patients treated by either radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy. Active surveillance appears safe in low-risk patients, 70% of whom
remain well and free of treatment after 5y. Reassuringly, the number of
deaths from prostate cancer in the US is falling. Although disease progression, as measured by rising PSA, occurs in around 40% of surgical patients
and 750% of patients treated by radiotherapy, the natural history of recurrent disease may be very slow. US data have shown that the median time
from PSA rise post-prostatectomy to the development of metastatic disease may be as long as 8y. The median time from PSA rise after radical
radiotherapy, until metastatic disease is shorter, around 5y, almost certainly
reflecting the more advanced stages of disease treated with this modality.
For metastatic disease, the median duration of response to hormone
therapy is 18–24mo. The median survival time after development of
hormone-refractory disease is 12–18mo.

433

434

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Testicular cancer
The treatment of advanced testicular cancer represents one of the great
successes of medical oncology in the last 40y. This is one of the few solid
tumours for which the majority of patients with metastatic disease can
expect to be cured. Efforts are now focusing on minimizing the late effects
of curative therapy, as well as improving the outlook for poor-prognosis
advanced disease.

Epidemiology and aetiology
Ninety-five per cent of testicular tumours are of germ cell origin. These are
relatively uncommon malignancies, around 2200 cases in the UK each year,
the fourteenth commonest cancer in men overall. They are, however, the
commonest cancer in men aged 20–40y, and their incidence has doubled
over the last 30y. The reason for this increase is not clear.
The age distribution is dependent on the pathology.
• Seminoma is the most frequent pathology (55%):
• peak incidence age 30–40y
• occasionally 60–70y.
•	Non-seminoma (45%):
• includes tumours with mixed seminoma and non-seminoma
• peak incidence age 20–30y.
An increased risk of testicular cancer is observed in men with:
• a history of undescended testis (relative risk 8 times)
• previous testicular cancer (relative risk 25 times)
• testicular CIS
• a family history of testicular cancer
• Klinefelter’s syndrome
• an atrophic testis and infertility
• in utero exposure to oestrogens.
It is believed that both environmental and genetic factors combine to give
rise to testicular dysgenesis, manifested as either Leydig cell malfunction,
with failure of normal testicular descent, or impaired germ cell differentiation with poor sperm production and/or malignant change.

Screening
There is no evidence to support population screening for this disease.

Genetics
Testicular germ cell tumours are invariably aneuploid. Gain of the 12p chromosome arm, most commonly as an isochromosome, is highly consistent.

Pathology
Germ cell tumours arise from the germinal epithelium, and both seminomas
and non-seminomatous germ cell tumours (NSGCTs) are thought to arise
from pre-existing CIS. The British classification has been replaced by the
WHO system (see Table 19.10).
The natural histories of seminomas and NSGCTs differ, and these differences dictate the variation in management between the two pathologies.
The majority of seminomas (75%) present with disease confined to the

Testicular cancer

Table 19.10 Pathological classification of testicular cancers
British

WHO

Relative frequency (%)

Seminoma

Seminoma

55

Teratoma

NSGCT

33

Mixed seminoma teratoma

Mixed germ cell tumour

12

Teratoma differentiated (TD)

Mature teratoma

Malignant teratoma
intermediate (MTI)

Embryonal carcinoma
with teratoma
(teratocarcinoma)

Malignant teratoma
undifferentiated (MTU)

Yolk sac tumour,
embryonal carcinoma

Malignant teratoma
trophoblastic (MTT)

Yolk sac tumour;
choriocarcinoma

testis. Spread tends to be predictable—to the para-aortic lymph nodes in
the first instance and subsequently to the supradiaphragmatic lymph nodes,
and then to other metastatic sites. Tumour growth can be very slow, so that
untreated microscopic metastatic disease may take up to 10y to become
clinically apparent.
In contrast, only 50% of testicular NSGCTs present with localized disease. Blood-borne and lymphatic spread occurs earlier than with seminomas. The behaviour of mixed testicular germ cell tumours is dominated by
the NSGCT component.

Tumour markers
NSGCTs produce serum markers in the form of human chorionic gonadotrophin (HCG) and/or AFP in 75% of cases. Seminomas, on the other
hand, have no reliable tumour marker to monitor disease, although HCG
may be moderately elevated in about 25% of cases. LDH may be raised in
both tumours and is useful for defining a prognostic group, correlating with
the tumour bulk, but it is not a reliable marker for monitoring the response
to treatment or subsequent relapse.

Presentation
Most commonly presents with a hard testicular lump, which may be painless
or be mistaken for epididymo-orchitis. Patients with testicular symptoms
that persist, despite one course of antibiotics, should be referred to a urology clinic for assessment, including ultrasound examination of the testes.
Men with tumours producing high levels of HCG may develop gynaecomastia which resolves with treatment of the cancer.
Metastatic disease may present with:
• lumbar back pain associated with bulky (>5cm) para-aortic
lymphadenopathy
• cough and dyspnoea with multiple lung metastases
• SVCO with mediastinal lymphadenopathy
• CNS symptoms/signs with brain metastasis.

435

436

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Many patients with relapsed disease are diagnosed with asymptomatic
spread of disease, picked up on routine monitoring of serum markers,
CXR, or CT scan.

Investigation of testicular germ cell tumours
This initially includes:
• USS of both testes
• CXR
• tumour markers (AFP, HCG, LDH).
Where the patient has obvious and widespread metastases, immediate
referral for chemotherapy may be necessary, but, for the majority, the initial
management will be inguinal orchidectomy. A biopsy of the contralateral
testis should be considered where there is a high risk of CIS. Patients at
risk include those with a history of maldescent, a small testis (<12mL), and
patients aged <30y. Further staging investigations will usually be performed
post-operatively.
Staging investigations and prognostic grouping
Staging investigations will include, in all patients, a CT scan of the thorax,
abdomen, and pelvis. In patients with greatly elevated HCG (>10 000IU/L)
or bulky mediastinal disease or symptoms/signs of CNS disease, a CT scan
of the brain is advisable. Post-orchidectomy tumour markers should be serially checked, if raised, to assess whether or not they are falling with an
appropriate half-life (4–6 days for AFP, 24h for HCG). Other investigations,
such as an isotope bone scan, may be necessary, if clinically indicated.
Staging of the ° tumour post-orchidectomy is according to the TNM
system. Until recently, the Royal Marsden Hospital (RMH) staging (see M
https://cancerstaging.org to download the TNM staging) has been used
for both NSGCTs and seminomas. The International Germ Cell Consensus
Classification (IGCCC) prognostic grouping (see Table 19.12) is now applicable for all patients with stage >I disease.
Sperm storage
Sperm count and storage should be considered at an early stage where
patients are likely to require further therapy. It should be remembered that
up to 50% of patients with testicular germ cell tumour may be subfertile at
presentation.

Testicular cancer

437

438

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Management of testicular cancer
The management of seminomas and NSGCTs depends on the stage
of disease and involves all three major modalities for the treatment of
cancer—surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy (see Table 19.11).

Carcinoma in situ
Germ cell CIS may progress to invasive cancer, either seminoma or NSGCT,
with 50% producing invasive tumours 5y from diagnosis. Once this diagnosis
is made, treatment should be offered, although this may not need to be
given immediately. CIS can be eradicated by low-dose radiotherapy to the
testis (20Gy in ten fractions). The advantage of this treatment is that, in the
majority of cases, it will avoid orchidectomy and not affect Leydig cell function, and long-term hormone therapy should not be necessary.

Stage I seminoma
Orchidectomy must be radical, and the incision must be in the groin to
avoid tumour seeding in the scrotal skin.
Despite a negative staging on CT scan, 20% of these patients develop
recurrent seminoma after orchidectomy; 90% of relapses are in para-aortic
nodes, but some of these are late, up to 10y after orchidectomy. Relapse
is commoner after orchidectomy for testicular tumours of >4cm in diameter but is usually marker-negative and only detectable on CT scan. The
prognosis is excellent—almost all patients with relapsed disease are cured
by salvage therapy (see E Stages IIc–IV seminoma and stages IM–IV nonseminomatous germ cell tumour, p. 439).
Currently, there are three management options for patients with stage
I seminoma:
• adjuvant radiotherapy to the para-aortic nodes, T11–L5 (20Gy in ten
fractions):
• reduces the relapse rate to 4%
• well tolerated, but significant risk of radiation-induced abdominal
malignancy
• surveillance, including annual CT (or MRI scan within the MRC TRISST
study) of the abdomen and pelvis
• adjuvant chemotherapy with one cycle of carboplatin chemotherapy:
• recent results suggest a similar reduction in the relapse rate as with
radiotherapy to retroperitoneal lymph nodes.

Stages IIA and IIB seminoma
These patients are best treated with radiotherapy to the para-aortic and
ipsilateral iliac lymph nodes.
• IIA—30Gy in 15 fractions leads to 95% DFS after 5y.
• IIB—36Gy in 18 fractions leads to 90% DFS after 5y.

Management of testicular cancer

Table 19.11 Examples of chemotherapy regimens for testicular cancer
BEP
Bleomycin
Etoposide
Cisplatin

30mg
100mg/m2
20mg/m2

Days 1, 8, 15
Days 1–5
Days 1–5

q 3wk

100mg/m2
20mg/m2

Days 1–5
Days 1–5

q 3wk

75mg/m2
1.2g/m2
20mg/m2

Days 1–5
Days 1–5
Days 1–5

q 3wk

EP
Etoposide
Cisplatin
VIP
Etoposide
Ifosfamide
Cisplatin

Stage I non-seminomatous germ cell tumour
After orchidectomy alone, the relapse rate is around 30%, with the majority
of relapses occurring in the first 2y and many detected by a rise in tumour
markers, with only low-volume disease in the para-aortic nodes or lungs.
As a result, the outcome of treatment for relapsed stage I disease is excellent, with cure rates of >95%. The best predictor of relapse is the presence
of vascular invasion in the tumour—50% of these men develop metastatic
disease if given no adjuvant therapy.
The treatment options are:
• surveillance, including frequent clinic visits, CXR, tumour marker
monitoring, and regular CT scans, particularly in the first 2y
• adjuvant chemotherapy, particularly for tumours with vascular invasion:
• two cycles of BEP (bleomycin, etoposide, cisplatin) chemotherapy
• 97% DFS
• nerve-sparing retroperitoneal lymph node dissection with adjuvant
chemotherapy for node-positive disease:
• not commonly used in the UK.
Each of these results in >95% long-term DFS.
• In the US, there is a more aggressive surgical approach to the resection
of retroperitoneal nodes for stage I NSGCTs.

Stages IIc–IV seminoma and stages IM–IV
non-seminomatous germ cell tumour
Chemotherapy is the mainstay of treatment for all these stages of testicular
cancer and has been the key to the improvement in prognosis for this disease over the last 20y. For the vast majority of patients, treatment is based
on the BEP regimen. All patients should be assigned an IGCCC prognostic
group to guide treatment (see Table 19.12).
Good-prognosis disease
Standard treatment comprises three cycles of BEP chemotherapy, monitoring of tumour markers weekly, and re-staging by CT scan at the end of
chemotherapy. In patients in whom bleomycin is unsafe (older patients with

439

440

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

poor lung function), an alternative regimen, with equivalent results, is four
cycles of EP chemotherapy.
The toxicities of BEP chemotherapy include:
• nausea and vomiting (largely prevented with appropriate anti-emetics,
including a 5-HT3 antagonist and dexamethasone)
• neutropenic sepsis:
• dose delays and reductions should be avoided
• G-CSF may be used as 2° prophylaxis after one episode of
neutropenic sepsis
• neuropathy:
• cisplatin causes sensory peripheral neuropathy and high-tone
hearing loss
• toxicity is reduced when cisplatin dose fractionated over 5 days
• nephropathy:
• cisplatin causes a fall in the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and
tubular damage, often associated with hypomagnesaemia
• best managed by prevention (pre- and post-hydration, diuretic, e.g.
furosemide and mannitol, IV magnesium supplements)
• pulmonary fibrosis:
• the risk relates to the cumulative dose of bleomycin
• this toxicity can be fatal.
Residual tumour masses post-chemotherapy
After completion of chemotherapy, CT scan may show persistent masses
at the site of the original metastatic disease. For patients with seminoma,
such masses are managed expectantly, and the majority are seen to slowly
regress on serial scans. Alternatively, FDG-PET scanning can be helpful in
the early detection of residual active tumour. However, for patients with
NSGCT, in whom residual tumour is apparent, surgical resection should
be performed. The majority of these will be in the retroperitoneum, and
extensive and difficult surgery is often necessary for a complete resection.
The assistance of a vascular surgeon is required not infrequently. Morbidity
can be up to 10%, and mortality 0.5%. The residual masses may contain:
• necrotic tumour (50%)
• mature teratoma (35%); although histologically benign, excision is
important, as this tissue can give rise to malignancy, if left in situ
• viable tumour (15%); may require additional chemotherapy.
Surgery should usually only be undertaken when markers have normalized.
Residual pulmonary masses should also be resected, where possible. The
problems of surgical technique and anaesthetic risk, particularly as most
patients will have been exposed to bleomycin, demand that patients are
operated on in a centre experienced in this surgery.
Retroperitoneal node dissection can be performed laparoscopically in
experienced centres.
Intermediate- and poor-prognosis disease
Although no chemotherapy regimen has yet been proven to be superior
to four cycles of BEP chemotherapy for these groups of patients, the outcomes of treatment are significantly poorer, with 5y survival:
• intermediate group—80%
• poor group—71%.

Management of testicular cancer

All such patients should be considered for clinical trials exploring novel or
more intensive treatment options.

Follow-up
Following ° management of metastatic disease, regular follow-up is necessary as, in those patients who relapse, salvage therapy can be effective in
725% of cases.

Non-germ cell testicular tumours
These represent a very small proportion of testicular tumours. Stromal
tumours, such as those arising from Leydig cells, are generally benign, but
metastases have been reported in 710% of cases. Testicular lymphomas are
the commonest testicular cancer in elderly men and should be treated along
the same principles as lymphomas arising at other sites.
Table 19.12 IGCCC prognostic grouping for metastatic germ cell tumours
Teratoma (NSGCT)

Seminoma

Good prognosis with all of:
Testis/retroperitoneal °

Any ° site

No non-pulmonary visceral metastases

No non-pulmonary visceral
metastases

AFP <1000ng/mL

Normal AFP

HCG <5000IU/mL

Any HCG

LDH 1.5 × the upper limit of normal

Any LDH

56% of teratomas: 5y survival 92%

90% of seminomas: 5y survival 86%

Intermediate prognosis with any of:
Testis/retroperitoneal °

Any ° site

No non-pulmonary visceral metastases

Non-pulmonary visceral metastases

AFP >1000 and <10 000ng/mL

Normal AFP

HCG >5000 and <50 000IU/mL

Any HCG

LDH >1.5 × normal <10 × normal

Any LDH

28% of teratomas: 5y survival 80%

10% of seminomas: 5y survival 73%

Poor prognosis with any of:
Mediastinal °
Non-pulmonary visceral metastases
AFP >10 000ng/mL
HCG >50 000IU/mL
LDH >10 × normal
16% of teratomas: 5y survival 71%

No patients in this group

441

442

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Penile cancer
Epidemiology
This is an uncommon cancer, with around 350 new cases per annum in the
UK. The majority occur in the over 70s, but up to 20% occur under the
age of 40y. The disease is relatively commoner in Africa, India, and South
America.

Aetiology
•	HPV 16 and 18 infections.
•	Associated with poor hygiene and phimosis.
• Pre-malignant lesion—CIS:
• on the glans—erythroplasia of Queyrat
• on the shaft—Bowen’s disease
• progresses to invasive carcinoma in 710%.
• Increased risk with cigarette smoking and immunosuppression, including
HIV infection.
•	Neonatal circumcision gives lifelong protection.

Pathology
The vast majority are squamous carcinomas, which may be exophytic or
locally invasive and destructive, and can spread initially via the lymphatics
to the inguinal, and then pelvic, lymph nodes. Locally advanced disease can
spread to other organs, including the liver, lungs, bone, and skin.

Staging
The TNM system is commonly used (see M https://cancerstaging.org to
download the TNM staging).

Investigations
• Careful examination of the penis with, cytological assessment or biopsy
of any lesion.
• General examination, including palpation of the inguinal lymph nodes.
• >50% have inguinal lymphadenopathy, but less than half of these have
metastatic disease within the nodes—reactive lymphadenopathy is
commoner.
• FNA for suspicious lymph nodes, or review lymph nodes after
treatment of the ° carcinoma.
• Further staging, e.g. cross-sectional imaging of the abdomen and
pelvis, is only required if inguinal nodes involved or clinical suspicion of
metastatic disease.

Presentation
At least 50% arise on the glans, appearing as an area of erythema, warty
tumour, or ulceration; 20% involve the foreskin only. In advanced disease,
there may be considerable destruction of the penis. Patients not uncommonly conceal the diagnosis, until there is advanced loco-regional disease
with considerable 2° infection. Patients may present with metastatic disease, e.g. inguinal and pelvic lymphadenopathy.

Penile cancer

Management
Primary tumour
Early-stage disease may be successfully managed with organ conservation:
• Tis—topical fluorouracil, laser therapy, cryotherapy, local excision
• T1—excision or radiotherapy.
More advanced disease or local recurrence often requires at least partial
amputation of the penis. Patients with inoperable disease may be treated
with chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
Regional lymph nodes
Inguinal lymph nodes may be managed by surveillance, if impalpable, after
completion of local treatment to the °. However, with high-grade T2 and
more advanced cancers, the incidence of positive regional lymph nodes is
60% or higher, and elective bilateral inguinal lymphadenectomy should be
considered in the absence of clinical involvement of lymph nodes. Patients
with persistent lymphadenopathy, after clearance of the ° tumour and any
infection, should be considered for bilateral inguinal lymphadenectomy.
Patients who are unfit for surgery or have inoperable disease may benefit
from chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The role of SLNB is unclear, and it is
not in widespread use.
The disease is moderately chemosensitive, and active regimens include
MTX, bleomycin, and cisplatin (MBP). Chemotherapy is recommended both
for advanced disease and as adjuvant therapy for node-positive disease.

Outcomes
Overall, 50% survive disease-free beyond 5y, with better results in
node-negative (60%), compared with node-positive (30%), disease. The
majority of relapses occur in the first 2y, and close follow-up is recommended at least during this time.

443

444

Chapter 19

Genitourinary cancers

Further reading
Bladder cancer
Advanced Bladder Cancer Meta-analysis Collaboration (2003). Neoadjuvant chemotherapy in invasive bladder cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet 361, 1927–34.
Cookson MS, Herr HW, Zhang ZF, Soloway S, Sogani PC, Fair WR (1997). The treated natural history of high risk superficial bladder cancer: 15-year outcome. J Urol 158, 62–7.
Horikawa Y, Kamazawa T, Narita S, et al. (2007). Lymphatic invasion is a prognostic factor for bladder
cancer treated with radical cystectomy. Int J Clin Oncol 12, 131–6.
James ND, Hussain SA, Hall E (2012). Radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy in muscle invasive
bladder cancer. N Engl J Med 366, 1477–88.
Raghavan D, Shipley WU, Garnick MB, Russell PJ, Richie JP (1990). Biology and management of bladder cancer. N Engl J Med 322, 1129–38.
Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (2005). Management of transitional cell carcinoma of the
bladder: a national clinical guideline. Guideline 85. Edinburgh: Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines
Network. Available at: M http://www.sign.ac.uk/pdf/sign85.pdf (accessed 18 December 2012).

Penile cancer
Hungerhuber E, Schlenker B, Frimberger D (2006). Lymphoscintigraphy in penile cancer: limited
value of sentinel node biopsy in patients with clinically suspicious nodes. World J Urol 24, 319–24.

Prostate cancer
Loblaw DA, Virgo KS, Nam R, et al.; American Society of Clinical Oncology (2007). Update of a
practice guideline: initial hormonal management of androgen-sensitive metastatic, recurrent, or
progressive prostate cancer. Clin Oncol 25, 1596–605.
Barry MJ (2008). Screening for prostate cancer among men 75 years of age or older. N Engl J Med
359, 2515–16.
Damber JE, Aus G (2008). Prostate cancer. Lancet 371, 1710–21.
Frankel S, Smith GD, Donovan J, Neal D (2003). Screening for prostate cancer. Lancet 361, 1122–8.
Graham J, Baker M, Macbeth F, Titshall V; Guideline Development Group (2008). Diagnosis and
treatment of prostate cancer: summary of NICE guidance. BMJ 336, 610–12.
Jani AB, Hellman S (2003). Early prostate cancer: clinical decision-making. Lancet 361, 1045–53.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (2008). Prostate cancer: diagnosis and treatment.
Clinical guideline 58. London: National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Available at: M
http://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/cg58.

Renal cancer
Atzpodien J, Kirchner H, Jonas U, et al. (2004). Interleukin-2- and interferon alfa-2a-based immunochemotherapy in advanced renal cell carcinoma: a Prospectively Randomized Trial of the German
Cooperative Renal Carcinoma Chemoimmunotherapy Group (DGCIN). J Clin Oncol 22, 1188–94.
Coppin C, Kollmannsberger C, Le L, Porzsolt F, Wilt TJ (2011). Targeted therapy for advanced
renal cell cancer (RCC): a Cochrane systematic review of published randomized trials. BJU Int
108, 1556–63.
Dehn T (2008). Management of renal cell carcinoma. Ann R Coll Surg Engl 90, 278–81.
Medical Research Council Renal Cancer Collaborators (1999). Interferon-alpha and survival in metastatic renal carcinoma: early results of a randomized controlled trial. Lancet 353, 14–17.
Ogan K, Cadeddu JA, Stifelman MD (2003). Laparoscopic radical nephrectomy: oncologic efficacy.
Urol Clin North Am 30, 543–50.
Rini BI, Small EJ (2005). Biology and clinical development of vascular endothelial growth factor targeted therapy in renal cell carcinoma. J Clin Oncol 23, 1028–43.
Tomita Y (2006). Early renal cell cancer. Int J Clin Oncol 11, 22–7.
Volpe A, Panzarella T, Rendon RA (2004). The natural history of incidentally detected small renal
masses. Cancer 100, 738–45.

Testicular cancer
Chistoph F, Weikert S, Miller K, Schrader M (2005). New guidelines for clinical stage I testicular
seminoma? Oncology 69, 455–62.
Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (1998). Management of adult testicular germ cell
tumours: a national clinical guideline. Guideline 124. Edinburgh: Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines
Network. Available at: M http://www.sign.ac.uk/pdf/sign124.pdf.

Chapter 20

Gynaecological cancers
Ovarian cancer 446
Cancer of the uterine corpus 450
Cancer of the cervix 454
Vaginal and vulval cancer 458
Trophoblastic tumours 460
Further reading 465

445

446

Chapter 20

Gynaecological cancers

Ovarian cancer
• Fifth commonest cancer in women, with over 6000 cases diagnosed and
over 4000 women dying of the disease each year in the UK. Incidence
slowly rising.
• The majority of cases occur over the age of 55y, with the peak in the
65–75y age group.

Aetiology
• The risk of ovarian cancer relates to the number of ovulatory cycles in a
woman’s lifetime and multiple pregnancies.
• Use of the oral contraceptive pill now shown to offer protection;
infertility or its treatment may increase the risk.
•	About 5% are clearly hereditary—associated with BRCA1 or BRCA2 or
Lynch families (see Chapter 14).

Pathology
• 80% of ovarian malignancies are epithelial. Serous and endometrioid
cancers are the commonest forms, but about 5% are mucinous or clear
cell. Clear cell cancers account for up to 20% in the Far East.
• The rest comprises germ cell, sex cord/stromal tumours, sarcomas, and
neuroendocrine cancers.
CA125
Eighty per cent of women with advanced ovarian cancer have elevated
serum CA125, and this marker is valuable in monitoring the response to
therapy and in the detection of early relapse. However, it is not specific for
ovarian cancer and is elevated in association with other peritoneal pathologies. A ratio of CA125 and CEA that is higher than 25 may help to support
the diagnosis of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC).

Presentation and staging
• The majority of women present with disease that has spread beyond
the ovary to involve the peritoneum and other abdomino-pelvic organs.
• The commonest symptoms are abdominal discomfort and swelling,
bloating, and change in bowel habit.
• GI and urinary symptoms also occur.
The two main prognostic factors in ovarian cancer are the stage (see Table
20.1) and the amount of residual disease after surgery. The 5y survival rates,
according to the stage, are as follows:
• stage I, 80%; but over 90% for stage IA
• stage II, 45%
• stage III, 20%
• stage IV, <10%.

Ovarian cancer

Table 20.1 A simplified staging of ovarian cancer
Stage

Description

Ia

Tumour confined to one ovary

Ib

Tumour confined to both ovaries

Ic

Tumour stage I, but with capsule ruptured or malignant ascites

II

Tumour with pelvic extension only

III

Tumour with peritoneal implantation outwith the pelvis or
involved small bowel; retroperitoneal or inguinal nodes

IV

Distant metastases, e.g. intrahepatic, pleura, or lung

Treatment of epithelial ovarian cancer
• The ° treatment remains surgery, with the aim to achieve complete
surgical removal or maximal debulking effort.
• This should also include thorough staging, with removal of the
omentum, peritoneal washings, inspection of the subdiaphragmatic
areas, and, more controversially, lymphadenectomy.
• The amount of residual disease correlates with worse prognosis.
• The majority of patients present with advanced disease (stages II–IV),
with a correspondingly poor prognosis.
•	Patients who have >2cm of disease after their initial surgery have a poor
prognosis, with only 20% of patients surviving 3y.
• The median survival times for patients with suboptimally debulked
disease (>1cm) range from 16 to 29mo, and from 26 to 96mo for
patients with optimally debulked disease.

Surgery
Patients must undergo full surgical staging. A surgical staging procedure
consists of:
• a midline incision
• total abdominal hysterectomy
• bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO)
• omentectomy
• multiple peritoneal biopsies and washings
• lymph node sampling of the para-aortic and pelvic regions
• careful assessment of the subdiaphragmatic areas.
The case should be discussed at the local tumour board or MDT meeting. There is good evidence to support referral for surgery to a specialized
gynaecological oncology surgeon.
Radical surgery plays an important role in the treatment of ovarian cancer.
A randomized trial has shown that, for patients who cannot be optimally
debulked at initial laparotomy, interval debulking surgery, after three cycles
of chemotherapy, confers a significant survival benefit. However, this is only
applicable when the original surgery was performed by a non-specialist
gynaecological oncology surgeon.

447

448

Chapter 20

Gynaecological cancers

For patients who are not fit or who have supra-omental stage III disease
and some stage IV patients with positive pleural effusions only, and where
optimal debulking cannot be achieved, neoadjuvant chemotherapy and
delayed ° surgery may be considered as an alternative.
Laparoscopic surgery is becoming established and is especially helpful
for lymph node dissection of the pelvic side wall. Over the past decade,
in specialized referral centres, laparoscopic ovarian radical surgery is being
assessed, with less morbidity, faster recovery, and equal oncological results
to open surgery. The procedure is technically difficult; often specialists work
in pairs.

First-line chemotherapy
Chemotherapy is usually offered to all patients, except possibly stage Ia G1.
Platinum and a taxane are usually standard, but there is a body of opinion
which recommends carboplatin alone, based on the ICON 3 (International
Collaborative Ovarian Neoplasm) trial, reserving taxanes for relapse.
•	Platinum-based therapy is usual—carboplatin is equivalent to cisplatin,
but with less toxicity.
• Taxanes are usually given in combination in most centres.
• In older or unfit patients, single-agent carboplatin is used.
• To date, the addition of a third drug or alternating doublets has failed to
improve survival.
• Maintenance treatments have also failed to show survival benefit as yet.
• Intraperitoneal chemotherapy in optimally debulked patients has been
shown to improve survival in four randomized trials but has been slow
to be adopted universally because of toxicity and inconvenience.
• Currently, there are many trials investigating the addition of targeted
anti-cancer treatments, but their exact role remains to be defined, until
these trials are complete; at the time of writing, the VEGF receptor
antagonists seem to offer the greatest potential.

Treatment at relapse
•	Patients who relapse after first-line therapy are incurable.
• The majority of patients relapse within 15–24mo, and the length of
the treatment-free interval before relapse is an important factor in
predicting the response to second-line therapy.
•	Patients who relapse on treatment are termed platinum-refractory and
should be entered into clinical trials of new agents or treated with new
drugs or non-platinum-containing regimes such as pegylated liposomal
doxorubicin or topotecan.
•	Patients who relapse within 6mo are termed platinum-resistant, and
retreating with platinum produces response rates of <10% so should be
treated as above.
•	Patients with a treatment-free interval of >12mo are generally
termed platinum-sensitive and should be re-challenged with a
platinum-containing regimen. Other indicators of response are the bulk
of disease, serous pathology, previous response to treatment, and the
number of disease sites.
•	A number of new agents have been licensed in this setting in
recent years.

Ovarian cancer

• Dose-dense and dose-intense regimes are active in these settings, and,
following initial reports of cisplatin and etoposide, weekly carboplatin
and paclitaxel are becoming established alternatives; 40–50% response
rates are reported.

Follow-up
Clinical dilemmas arise after first-line therapy—what follow-up protocol is
appropriate and when should second-line therapy be instituted? All patients
usually have serial CA125 estimations, but, as soon as the marker rises,
much anxiety is caused, and many patients expect treatment. The OV05
trial may help to answer whether early intervention treatment with a rising
CA125 improves outcome. Data are expected in 2009.

Treatment of rare ovarian cancers
• Special consideration should be given to mucinous tumours which
respond less well to carboplatin and paclitaxel. Investigation of regimes
being used to treat GI tumours is being undertaken.
• Similarly, clear cell tumours have a worse prognosis, and Japanese
experience suggests novel regimes should be tested.
• ° ovarian sarcomas are believed to behave more aggressively, although
recent experience suggests carboplatin and paclitaxel, with or without
an anthracycline, should be considered.
• Small-cell cancers are often lethal and may be associated with
hypercalcaemia. They tend to be more common in younger age groups.
Aggressive treatment programmes are offered, but, even so, only
20–30% survive 2y.
• Germ cell tumours usually carry an excellent prognosis, and
fertility-sparing surgery is advised, with the use of BEP chemotherapy in
stage Ic and above. Early disease is treated more conservatively.
• Sex cord and stromal tumours may behave variably, sometimes with
delayed relapse.
•	All of these rare and uncommon cancers are best managed by
centralized teams.

449

450

Chapter 20

Gynaecological cancers

Cancer of the uterine corpus
• Carcinoma of the endometrium accounts for over 90% of tumours.
• Less common are the uterine sarcomas. Carcinosarcomas are almost
certainly poor prognostic carcinomas, but endometrial stromal
sarcomas and smooth muscle tumours (leiomyosarcomas) may account
for 3–8%.

Endometrial adenocarcinoma
Epidemiology and aetiology
• Occurs principally in post-menopausal women, and the incidence rises
with age.
• The aetiology has not been fully determined; however, obesity and
unopposed oestrogen as HRT are thought to increase the risk.
• Women with breast cancer taking tamoxifen, which exerts oestrogenic
agonist effects on the endometrium, have an increased risk of polyps,
hyperplasia, and sometimes carcinoma.
• Commoner in obese women, in whom oestrogen is peripherally
produced in fat.
• Lynch syndrome leads to 40–60% additional risk of endometrial cancer.
Pathology
• Two types of endometrial cancer are usually recognized—types 1 and 2.
• Type 1 is usually endometrioid and occurs in younger women with
obesity and excess oestrogen exposure and generally carries a better
prognosis.
• Type 2 occurs in older women with serous, clear cell, or other variants
and has a more aggressive pattern. Carcinosarcomas may be associated
with this type. The prognosis is usually much worse.
• The major prognostic factors are the depth of invasion of the
myometrium (if >50%) and grade of the tumour (G3), and this is
reflected in the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics
(FIGO) staging classification (see Table 20.2). This is due to be revised
in 2009.
• Surgery should include total hysterectomy, BSO, and washings. Whilst
many gynaecological oncologists argue for pelvic lymphadenectomy, two
randomized trials have not shown any survival advantage, but there may
be prognostic value from staging and help in planning adjuvant therapies.
• The ovaries are also removed, because they are frequently the site of 2°
deposits or synchronous tumours.
• If the cervix is known to be involved preoperatively, an extended or
radical hysterectomy should be performed.

Cancer of the uterine corpus

Table 20.2 Carcinoma of the corpus uteri (FIGO, 2008)
Stage I*

Tumour confined to the corpus uteri

IA*

No, or less than half, myometrial invasion

IB*

More than half myometrial invasion

Stage II*

Tumour invades the cervical stroma but does not extend
beyond the uterus**

Stage III*

Local and/or regional spread of the tumour

IIIA*

Tumour invades the serosa of the corpus uteri and/or adnexae#

IIIB*

Vaginal and/or parametrial involvement#

IIIC*

Metastases to pelvic and/or para-aortic lymph nodes#

IIIC1*

Positive pelvic nodes

IIIC2*

Positive para-aortic lymph nodes, with or without positive pelvic
lymph nodes

Stage IV*

Tumour invades the bladder and/or bowel mucosa, and/or
distant metastases

IVA*

Tumour invasion of the bladder and/or bowel mucosa

IVB*

Distant metastases, including intra-abdominal metastases and/
or inguinal lymph nodes

*

 Either G1, G2, or G3.

 Endocervical glandular involvement only should be considered as stage I, and no more as
stage II.
**

#

 Positive cytology has to be reported separately without changing the stage.

Management
The mainstay of treatment for stage I disease is total hysterectomy, BSO,
and peritoneal washings. Whilst not recommended routinely, pelvic (and
para-aortic) lymphadenectomy should be considered in high-risk cases such
as clear cell and serous carcinomas and carcinosarcomas.
The laparoscopic-assisted procedure is now being evaluated in a number
of centres. The role of routine pelvic nodal dissection has not been supported in recent clinical trials (Hockel and Dornhofer, 2009).
Radiotherapy
•	Adjuvant radiation post-operatively reduces the risk of local relapse.
However, none of the radiotherapy studies has shown any survival
benefit in low- or intermediate-risk disease. The place of adjuvant
radiotherapy is undergoing re-evaluation and should probably be
reserved for cases with stage 1C and grade 3; doses given are usually
between 45 and 52Gy in 25–28 fractions. Vaginal brachytherapy only
may be considered as an option for intermediate-risk stage 1 patients.
Brachytherapy is usually advised when there is cervical extension.
Increasing evidence supports the use of sequential chemotherapy and
radiation in high-risk stages 1 and 2 cancers.

451

452

Chapter 20

Gynaecological cancers

• In stage 3 cancers, chemotherapy and tailored radiation are advised;
discuss at the tumour board/MDT.
•	A recent trial has demonstrated that neoadjuvant chemotherapy and
delayed ° surgery should be considered in selected cases.
• Less commonly, radiation may be required as ° treatment for women
unfit to undergo surgery, usually through a combination of co-morbidity
and marked obesity. Cure rates are only about 50–60%.
Chemotherapy
Recent studies have shown that combined chemotherapy and radiation in
high-risk stage I cancers can reduce the risk of local recurrence and improve
OS. Whilst traditionally doxorubicin and cisplatin were used, this is being
replaced, as the community standard, by carboplatin and paclitaxel.
Prognosis
• Best survival rate of the gynaecological cancers.
• Overall 5y survival of 70–75%.
• Low-risk stage I disease carries a 15y survival in excess of 90%.
•	High-risk stage I disease nearer 50%.
• In stages II, III, and IV disease, the 5y survival falls to 50%, 30%, and 10%,
respectively.

Sarcomas
The classification of sarcomas has recently been reviewed. Most experts
now consider carcinosarcomas (previously known as MMMT—malignant
mixed mesodermal tumours) as poorly differentiated carcinomas. Molecular
markers support this. Uterine sarcomas are now divided into high-grade
and low-grade, but many clinicians still refer to stromal sarcomas and leiomyosarcomas. They have different patterns of behaviour and spread. Nodal
metastases are commoner with carcinosarcomas and stromal sarcomas, but
leiomyosarcomas tend to spread haematogenously, so lung and liver metastases are common, and CT scanning is advised for staging.
Successful treatment depends very much on surgery for localized disease.
Debulking is helpful for extensive disease. Residual disease or tumours with
nodal or distant metastases are usually incurable. Hysterectomy and BSO
should be performed, together with pelvic lymphadenectomy to stage the
disease. Residual disease can be treated with radiation. Adjuvant radiation
may improve pelvic control but does not confer a survival benefit and thus
is not routinely recommended. As for endometrial carcinomas, adjuvant
chemotherapy is increasingly used. Chemotherapy (e.g. doxorubicin, cisplatin, and ifosfamide; or carboplatin and paclitaxel) can be prescribed for
metastatic stromal disease, especially outside the pelvis, but long-term
survival is very poor under these circumstances. However, leiomyosarcomas have different chemosensitivities, and doxorubicin, with or without
ifosfamide, remains standard. Docetaxel and gemcitabine may be used for
relapsed disease.

Cancer of the uterine corpus

The future
Endometrial cancer will probably continue to increase in incidence, as more
women live longer. Long-term tamoxifen treatment for breast cancer may
merit endometrial screening to identify early change, but screening on a
population basis is not currently regarded as an effective strategy.

453

454

Chapter 20

Gynaecological cancers

Cancer of the cervix
Aetiology
• Unprotected sexual intercourse.
•	HPV.
•	HPV types 16 and 18—the US and Europe.
• Vaccination programme started in Europe in 2008.
•	Highly variable incidence rates in different countries.
• Globally, second commonest cancer in ♀.

Epidemiology
The epidemiology of this disease has been extensively studied, and strong
associations demonstrated with:
• social deprivation
• multiparity
• cigarette smoking
• early onset of sexual intercourse (before 17y)
• non-barrier forms of contraception
• reduced incidence and mortality in those countries with population
screening.
More recent studies have focused attention specifically on papillomavirus
transmission and the increased susceptibility of the cervical epithelium of
the sexually active teenage ♀.

Pathology
When the disease is confined to the cervix, patient management depends
on the cytology and/or histology specimens. These can reveal a spectrum
of changes in the epithelium of the cervix:
• slight dysplastic changes to the cell architecture
• viral cytoplasmic changes
• CIN 1, 2, or 3
• micro-invasive carcinoma
• frank invasive carcinoma.
These early changes may first be identified by examination of a smear of
cells, collected by a special wooden (Ayers) spatula or a brush, from the
vaginal surface of the cervix. The specimen is a sample of the cells that are
being shed from the ectocervix, sometimes along with cells that are being
shed from the endocervix and endometrium. They are examined on a slide
after staining with Papanicolaou stain, and an impression of the health of the
epithelium can be formed.
To accurately map the changes in the cervical epithelium, patients require
colposcopy where the cervix is examined by binocular microscopy at ten
times the normal magnification.
Viral changes, dysplasia, and CIN 1 and 2 are common in the sexually
active adult ♀, particularly among those in their 20s when multiple partners
and non-barrier contraception are involved. They can all revert to normal
without treatment and are monitored by regular smears. CIN 3 changes are
more commonly part of a process that can progress over months or years
to invasive carcinoma.

Cancer of the cervix

Staging
The FIGO staging system (see Table 20.3) is based predominantly on the
extent of the ° tumour. Metastatic spread is normally by the lymphatic
system.

Presentation
• CIN and micro-invasive carcinoma usually have no symptoms.
• The earliest symptoms of invasive carcinoma are:
• vaginal discharge
• post-coital bleeding
• intermenstrual or post-menopausal bleeding
• backache from hydronephrosis and nodal spread.

Investigations
Asymptomatic patients with CIN 1, 2, or 3 or micro-invasive carcinoma
do not require any further investigation prior to treatment. Symptomatic
patients should have an examination under anaesthetic to complete FIGO
staging, cystoscopy, or sigmoidoscopy if these adjacent organs appear to be
involved. CT or MRI scanning of the pelvis and abdomen define more fully
the size of the ° tumour and any lymphadenopathy. PET-CT is increasingly
used, as it is more likely to show occult metastases and change the treatment plan. IVU is now considered obsolete.

Management
Surgery
• CIN 3 disease localized to the ectocervix—colposcopy and loop
diathermy, cryoprobe, or laser:
• laser produces less distortion and more rapid healing. Diathermy is
inexpensive and easy to learn.
• CIN 3 disease extending into the endocervical canal or
micro-invasion—cone biopsy.
• Complete excision still requires follow-up or, if the patient wants no
more children, hysterectomy and surveillance for the vaginal vault.
• Invasive carcinoma (<4cm, confined to the cervix)—Wertheim’s
hysterectomy removes the parametrium and pelvic nodes. A recent
study with 30mo of survival data has shown stage Ibi cervical cancer
has an equally good oncological outcome with laparoscopic radical
hysterectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy.
Table 20.3 FIGO staging system for cervical cancer
Stage

Definition

IA

Micro-invasive disease (max depth 5mm, max width 7mm)

IB

Clinical disease confined to the cervix

IIA

Disease involves the upper third of the vagina, but not the parametrium

IIB

Disease involves the parametrium but does not extend to the pelvic wall

III

Disease involves the lower two-thirds of the vagina and/or the pelvic wall

IV

Involvement of the bladder, rectum, or distant organs

455

456

Chapter 20

Gynaecological cancers

Radiotherapy
•	Radiotherapy if:
• incomplete excision of the tumour
• poor tumour differentiation
• vascular invasion
• node involvement
• all other stages/medically unfit.
•	External beam irradiation, followed by intracavitary
brachytherapy (ICT).
• 45–52Gy—pelvis over 5wk.
• Sterilizes pre-menopausal patients.
• ICT γ sources (137Cs or 192Ir) in the uterus/upper vagina.
• Inserted for minutes (HDR); multiple fractions:
• inserted for 724h for MDR.
• ICT—dose to central pelvic structures:
• target dose of 75–85Gy to tumour volume ‘A’ point
• dose to the bladder and rectum below 70Gy
• moving towards customized planning with CT/MRI.
•	Pelvic radiotherapy for advanced cancer:
• minor side effects are common, e.g. 10–20%
• up to 5% serious late morbidity (bowel and urinary tract)
• bleeding from proctitis or cystitis
• stricture or ulceration
• fistula
• vaginal shortening/dryness.
Chemotherapy
Patients with recurrent pelvic, or systemic metastatic, disease may benefit
from palliative chemotherapy. The principal active agents are:
• cisplatin
• MMC
• ifosfamide
• MTX
• fluorouracil
• bleomycin
• paclitaxel
• topotecan.
Concomitant chemo-irradiation
The NCI consensus statement of 1999 of clinical trials of chemo-irradiation
for cervical carcinoma concluded that there was significant improvement in
the OS, local control, and risk of metastatic disease, compared with radiotherapy alone, with the greatest evidence of benefit in stages IB–II disease.
All trials demonstrate increased toxicity with combined-modality treatment,
so that patient selection is important. A recent update has confirmed this
benefit and again shown maximal benefit in earlier-stage disease.

Cancer of the cervix

Results
Survival at 5y is typically as follows: stage Ia, 100%; stage Ib, 70–90%; stage
II, 50–70%; stage III, 25–60%; stage IV, 10–20%. The wide ranges reflect the
large variation in disease volume seen within the present staging system,
which is based on tissue involvement, rather than the volume of disease.
Relapse after 5y is unusual.

457

458

Chapter 20

Gynaecological cancers

Vaginal and vulval cancer
Vaginal cancer
• Most vaginal malignancies are metastatic, from ° in the cervix, vulva,
endometrium, or trophoblast (choriocarcinoma).
• The commonest histological types of ° cancer are squamous (80%) and
adenocarcinoma (10%).
Aetiology
•	Recognized association with squamous intraepithelial and invasive
neoplasia at other anogenital mucosal and cutaneous sites such as the
cervix, vulva, and anus.
• Oncogenic HPV likely to be important in this tumour’s biology.
• Smoking is almost certainly a co-factor, as in cervix cancer, and
long-term survivors of cervix cancer who continue to smoke are most
at risk.
Symptoms and signs
Symptoms
•	Abnormal vaginal bleeding.
• Vaginal discharge.
• Bladder, rectal symptoms.
Signs
• Vaginal examination—best method of detection.
• Soft tissue mass—speculum examination.
• Most lesions in upper third and are exophytic.
• Submucosal lesions may indicate metastatic spread from the
endometrium or bowel.
Staging and investigations
• MRI is the preferred investigation for evaluating local spread, particularly
if body or transvaginal coils are used.
•	Negative predictive values of CT and MRI for regional nodal
involvement remain unsatisfactory.
Management
•	Radical radiotherapy, with a combination of pelvic external beam and
utero-vaginal ICT, is the treatment of choice, especially in stage II.
• The overall 5y survival is 40%, and salvage after first relapse is
uncommon.
• Bad prognostic features are ° adenocarcinoma, large tumour bulk,
tumour site (lower vaginal lesions fare worse), and posterior vaginal wall
involvement.
• One in five long-term survivors will suffer from serious
radiotherapy-related complications.
• Surgery has a limited role—early tumours of the upper posterior vaginal
wall need a radical hysterectomy and partial vaginectomy.
• Some US centres use surgery alone for stage II disease.

Vaginal and vulval cancer

Vulval cancer
• ° invasive vulval cancer; occurs as commonly as cervical cancer in
women over 60y.
• One in four tumours occurs in women under the age of 65y.
• The majority (85%) are squamous carcinoma.
• Other types include basal carcinoma (10%) and malignant
melanoma (4%).
Aetiology
•	Associations with oncogenic HPV DNA.
•	Pre-existing abnormal vulval skin conditions such as a thickened
epidermis (squamous hyperplasia).
• Lichen sclerosis.
• Intraepithelial atypia.
Symptoms and signs
• Tumours are preceded by chronic vulval skin symptoms such as pruritus
and irritation.
• Sensation of a painful lump.
•	Abnormal genital tract bleeding or haematuria may occur.
•	Examination of the external genitalia will identify the majority of
tumours.
Staging and investigations
• Combination of surgical and histopathological investigations.
• The incidence of nodal metastases rises from <1% for tumours with
<1mm depth of invasion to over 10% for tumours >3mm in depth.
•	Routine node dissection and pathology assessment.
• SLNB may be useful in early disease to spare the sequelae of a full
lymphadenectomy.
Management
• Surgical excision with clear margins and removal of groin nodes
(infection and wound seroma occur in 15% of cases). The role of SLNB
is not yet established.
•	Extensive disease may require complex reconstruction involving the
anus, rectum, urethra after radical vulvectomy, and block dissection of
inguinal nodes (morbidity is considerable).
• Chemo-irradiation for advanced disease—fluorouracil and MMC or
cisplatin and fluorouracil, combined with radiotherapy, give encouraging
results.
• For very advanced inoperable disease, neoadjuvant chemotherapy may
downsize tumours and render them resectable.
• 5y survival—85% if node-negative.
• Bad prognosis if:
• >3 regional nodes involved
• stages III, IV disease
• large tumour bulk
• node metastases
• poor performance status
• specific tumour type (melanoma).

459

460

Chapter 20

Gynaecological cancers

Trophoblastic tumours
Introduction
Gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD) includes a spectrum of disorders:
• complete hydatidiform mole (CHM)
• partial hydatidiform mole (PHM)
• malignant invasive mole, gestational choriocarcinoma.
• highly malignant placental-site trophoblastic tumour (PSTT)
• both CHM and PHM can develop into invasive moles.
Difficulty in diagnosis occurs most frequently with choriocarcinomas and
PSTT, which can arise after any type of pregnancy and may not present until
many years later, with widespread metastases.
These rare tumours are best managed in specialist centres.

What is trophoblast?
Within a few days following conception, a ball of cells is formed called the
blastocyst, and the outer layer of this ball differentiates into the trophoblast. This consists of an inner layer of cytotrophoblast cells that migrate
outwards and fuse to form large multinucleate syncytiotrophoblast cells.
The latter produce the pregnancy-associated hormone HCG and invade
the myometrium, triggering the formation of new maternal blood vessels
that are leaky and supply nutrition to the growing fetus. Trophoblast tissue
frequently invades these blood vessels, in both normal and molar pregnancies, and circulates in the blood.

Hydatidiform moles
Epidemiology
• 1/1000 pregnancies in the UK.
• 2-fold increase in frequency in South East Asia.
• Commoner after pregnancy when aged <16y or >40y.
Pathology
•	An ovum lacking maternal nucleus DNA fertilized by one or two
sperms—duplicate its chromosomes.
• The conceptus is androgenetic.
•	Proliferate to give abnormal trophoblastic tissue.
•	Partial mole—arises when two sperms fertilize an ovum that has
retained nuclear DNA:
• triploid conceptus proliferation to give an abnormal trophoblast and
variable fetal tissue
• the abnormal trophoblast forms hydropic villi that resemble grapes.
Histology
• Dilated villi of hyperplastic syncytiotrophoblast and cytotrophoblast.
• Later, cisterns form.
• Large AV shunts form—facilitate spread.
Presentation and staging
• Bleeding in early pregnancy.
•	Anaemia.

Trophoblastic tumours

• Toxaemia, hyperemesis, hyperthyroidism.
•	About 15–20% of complete moles and 0.5% of partial moles will require
chemotherapy. Staging of the disease involves ultrasound of the pelvis,
serum HCG, and CXR. In most instances, the CXR will be normal, but
metastatic disease can present with:
• cannonball secondaries
• pleural effusions
• wedge infarcts
• oligaemic areas
• cavitating lesions
• miliary appearance.
If there are chest lesions, then a CT, or preferably MRI, brain scan is indicated, prior to lumbar puncture for HCG analysis of the CSF (an HCG ratio
of >1:60 (CSF:blood) indicates CNS involvement).
Diagnosis
• Ultrasound—large uterus for dates:
• CHM—snow-storm appearances, no fetal parts
•	PHM—abnormal placenta, fetal parts seen.
•	HCG level high.
• DCIS in 2%.
• Trophoblastic embolism.
Management
• Gentle suction curettage.
• Spontaneous abortion.
•	Hysterotomy; a Caesarean section increases the risks 2-fold of
chemotherapy required to eradicate persistent trophoblastic disease.
The information from the staging investigations is used in the scoring system (see Table 20.4) to determine the risk of developing drug resistance to
MTX. Patients who score <5 will be cured with MTX alone in at least 75%
of cases, whilst only 30% are cured who score 5–8. Nevertheless, the latter
patients are also offered MTX therapy to start with, since this treatment
carries no risk of long-term sequelae. MTX may cause bleeding through
rapid involution of metastases. Patients scoring >9 receive ‘high-risk’ IV
combination chemotherapy, comprising etoposide, MTX, and dactinomycin
(EMA), alternating weekly with cyclophosphamide and vincristine (CO).
Treatment with either MTX or EMA/CO regimens continues, until the
HCG has been normal for 6wk.
Registration
Three specialist centres in the UK register and oversee the therapy of this
rare tumour—Charing Cross (London), Dundee, and Sheffield.
Follow-up
•	Regular HCG measurement.
• Subsequent pregnancies increase the risk of further molar pregnancy.
•	Rise in HCG means persistent GTD or invasive mole or
choriocarcinoma has developed.

461

462

Chapter 20

Gynaecological cancers

Table 20.4 Scoring system for gestational trophoblastic tumours
Prognostic factor

Scorea
0

1

Age (y)

<39

>39

Antecedent
pregnancy (AP)

Mole

Abortion or
unknown

Term

Interval (end of AP to
chemotherapy) (mo)

<4

4–7

7–12

>12

HCG (IU/L)

103–104

<103

104–105

>105

A × 0, 0 × A

B × A or 0

0 or A ×
unknown

AB ×
A or 0

1–4

ABO blood group
(♀ × ♂)

2

6

No of metastases

Nil

4–8

>8

Site of metastases

Not detected Spleen/
kidney
Lungs/vagina

GI tract

Brain/
liver

Largest tumour
mass (cm)

<3.0

>5

3–5

Prior chemotherapy

Single drug

Two or
more drugs

The total score for a patient is obtained by adding the individual scores for each prognostic
factor. Lower risk, 0–5; medium risk, 6–8; high risk, >9.
a

If the HCG plateaus or starts to rise, this indicates that the patient has
persisting molar disease or has developed an invasive mole (progression to
choriocarcinoma and PSTT is rare). If a repeat ultrasound shows evidence
of trophoblastic proliferation within the uterus, suction curettage may be
performed. However, performing >2 dilation and curettages (D & Cs) is not
usually beneficial and will not prevent the subsequent need for chemotherapy. Uterine perforation is more likely if the HCG is >20 000IU/L, when a
second D & C is contraindicated.
Other factors that increase the risk of needing subsequent chemotherapy
include age >50y and the use of the oral contraceptive pill whilst HCG is
still elevated. Accordingly, all patients are advised to use a barrier method
of contraception, following the evacuation of a mole.

Choriocarcinoma
Epidemiology
• Follows any type of pregnancy.
• Incidence 1/50 000.
• 3% of CHM develop into choriocarcinoma.
•	No geographical trends.

Trophoblastic tumours

Pathology
•	Highly malignant.
• Soft, purple, haemorrhagic mass.
•	Histology:
• mimics early blastocyst
• cores of mononuclear cytotrophoblast
• rim of multinucleated syncytiotrophoblast
• no chorionic villi
• surrounding necrosis, bleeding
• tumour in venous sinuses.
Presentation
•	Presents within 1y of pregnancy.
• Vaginal bleeding.
•	Abdominal pain.
•	Pelvic mass.
• One-third presents with metastases to the liver, brain, or lung.
Management
• In most instances, the patient will be transferred to a specialist centre.
• In addition to the staging investigations previously outlined, patients may
undergo further tests, including:
• the measurement of other tumour markers
• whole-body CT/MRI
•	PET scanning
• anti-HCG antibody scanning.
Where it can be safely achieved, excision biopsy of a metastasis should be
considered. This not only enables histological confirmation of the diagnosis, but also permits genetic analysis to prove the gestational nature of the
tumour. If there are only maternal genes, and no paternal genes, present,
then the patient has a non-gestational tumour (an ovarian choriocarcinoma
or, more rarely, an epithelial tumour that has differentiated into a choriocarcinoma). Frequently, however, biopsy is not possible, and the diagnosis
is made on the clinical history and other investigation findings. The patients
are then scored and treated, as described for molar disease.
The indications for chemotherapy are:
• evidence of metastases in the brain, liver, or GI tract, or radiological
opacities >2cm on CXR
• histological evidence of choriocarcinoma
• heavy vaginal bleeding, or evidence of GI or intraperitoneal
haemorrhage
• pulmonary, vulval, or vaginal metastases, unless HCG falling
• rising HCG after evacuation
• serum HCG 20 000IU/L >4wk after evacuation, because of the risk of
uterine perforation
• raised HCG 6mo after evacuation, even if still falling.
Any of these are indications to treat, following the diagnosis of GTD.

463

464

Chapter 20

Gynaecological cancers

Placental-site trophoblastic tumour
PSTT can develop following a term delivery, non-molar abortion, or CHM.
There are currently about 100 recorded cases of PSTT in the literature,
and so estimates of its true incidence may well be inaccurate. Nevertheless,
PSTT is thought to constitute about 1% of all trophoblastic tumours (choriocarcinoma, invasive mole, and PSTT).
PSTTs are slow-growing malignant tumours, composed mainly of cytotrophoblast, with very little syncytiotrophoblast, so producing little HCG.
However, they often stain strongly for human placental lactogen (HPL),
which helps to distinguish this tumour from carcinomas, sarcomas, exaggerated placental-site reaction, and placental nodule. The raised HPL may
cause hyperprolactinaemia that can result in amenorrhoea and/or galactorrhoea. In most cases, spread occurs by local infiltration, with distant metastases occurring late via the lymphatics and blood.
The behaviour of PSTT is thus quite different from other forms of GTD,
and it is relatively chemoresistant. The best management is hysterectomy
when the disease is localized to the uterus. When metastatic disease is present, patients can respond and be apparently cured by multi-agent chemotherapy, either alone or in combination with surgery.

Patient follow-up and prognosis
On completion of their chemotherapy, patients are advised to avoid pregnancy for 1y and remain on HCG follow-up for life to confirm that their
disease is in remission. About 2% of low-risk, and 4% of high-risk, patients
will relapse. All low- to middle-risk patients are salvaged with further chemotherapy (EMA/CO or alternative regimens), and the cure rate is almost
100% in this group. The high-risk group has 90% survival rate beyond 10y.
With the addition of platinum and other new agents, the salvage rates for
patients relapsing, following EMA/CO therapy, can be in excess of 70%.
Neither MTX nor EMA/CO therapy reduce fertility or cause abnormalities.
Thus, women treated for GTD can expect to have healthy children.

Further reading

Further reading
Aabo K, Adams M, Adnitt P, et al. (1998). Chemotherapy in ovarian cancer: four systematic
meta-analyses of individual patient data from 37 randomized trials. Advanced Ovarian Cancer
Triallist’ Group. Br J Cancer 78, 1479–87.
Amant F, Moerman P, Nevin P, Timmerman D, Van Limbergen E, Vergote I (2005). Endometrial
cancer. Lancet 366, 491–505.
Cannistra S (2004). Cancer of the ovary. N Engl J Med 351, 2519–30.
Green JA, Kirwan JM, Tierney JF, et al. (2001). Survival and recurrence after concomitant chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer of the uterine cervix: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
Lancet 358, 781–6.
Hockel M, Dornhofer N (2009). Treatment of early endometrial carcinoma: is less more? Lancet
373, 97–8.
Kim JJ (2008). Human papilloma virus vaccination in the UK. BMJ 337, 303–4.
Onda T, Yoshikawa M, Mizutani K, et al. (1997). Treatment of node-positive endometrial cancer
with complete node dissection, chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Br J Cancer 75, 1836–41.
Papadopoulos AJ, Foskett M, Seckl MJ, et al. (2002). Twenty-five years’ clinical experience with placental site trophoblastic tumors. J Reprod Med 47, 460–4.
Pellegrino A, Vizza E, Fruscio R, et al. (2009). Total laparoscopic radical hysterectomy and pelvic
lymphadenectomy in patients with 1b1 stage cervical cancer: analysis of surgical and oncological
outcome. Eur J Surg Oncol 35, 98–103.
Rose PG, Bundy BN, Watkins EB, et al. (1999). Concurrent cisplatin-based chemotherapy and radiotherapy for locally advanced cervical cancer. N Engl J Med 340, 1144–53.

465

Chapter 21

Head and neck cancers
Introduction 468
Aetiology 470
Epidemiology 472
Screening and prevention 473
Pathology 474
Presentation 476
Investigations 478
TNM staging 480
Management 482
Prognosis and follow-up 488
Rehabilitation 490
Intra-ocular tumours 492
Further reading 493

467

468

Chapter 21

Head and neck cancers

Introduction
•	Head and neck cancer encompasses a range of neoplasms arising from
different anatomical sites (see Fig. 21.1):
• the larynx—including the supraglottic, glottic, and subglottic regions
• the oral cavity—including the lips, gums, anterior tongue, floor of the
mouth, hard palate, and buccal mucosa
• the pharynx—including the nasopharynx, oropharynx, and
hypopharynx
• the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses—maxillary, frontal, ethmoid,
and sphenoid
• the salivary glands.
• Malignancy of the head and neck is the fifth commonest cancer
worldwide and the commonest in central Asia.
• In the UK:
• the incidence of cancer at each separate anatomical site is
relatively low
• >8000 new diagnoses per year
• 85% of cases arise in patients aged >50y
• ‘tends to be a disease of deprivation, with the risk of developing
disease four times greater for men living in the most deprived areas’
(Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network, SIGN)
• increasing incidence amongst young people of both sexes.
• The term ‘head and neck cancer’ includes many different diseases.
However, most of the skills required to assess and manage these
patients are broadly similar.

Introduction

Paranasal sinuses
Nasal cavity

Oral cavity
Nasopharynx
Pharynx

Oropharynx

Hypopharynx
Salivary glands

Larynx
Oesophagus

Fig. 21.1 Anatomy of the head and neck.

Trachea

469

470

Chapter 21

Head and neck cancers

Aetiology
Smoking and alcohol
• Major modifiable risk factors in the Western world.
• Together, they are believed to account for >75% of cases of head and
neck cancer.
• The effect on the risk of malignancy is synergistic (multiplicative).
• Cigarette smoking is associated with >10 times greater risk of all head
and neck cancers.
•	Heavy smoking, combined with excess alcohol consumption, results in
>35 times the risk of oral cancer of a person who does neither.
• Chewing tobacco and pipe smoking are particularly associated with oral
cancer.
• The role of tobacco is less clear in the aetiology of cancers of the nasal
cavity and paranasal sinuses.
• These carcinogens do not have a significant role in the development of
cancers of the salivary glands.

Diet
• Low risk associated with a well-balanced diet rich in vegetables and fruit.
• Increased risk with a poor diet particularly deficient in vitamins A and C.
• Nitrosamines in salted fish implicated in Chinese diet.

Infections
Virally induced cancers may have a better prognosis than those attributable
to smoking and alcohol use.
Human papillomavirus infection
• Risk factor for cancer of the larynx, pharynx, and oral cavity.
• The association is strongest for cancers of the oropharynx, in particular
HPV type 16.
• Particularly relevant in the 25% of cases not related to tobacco and/or
alcohol consumption.
• The introduction of a vaccination programme against HPV types 16
and 18 in teenage girls (and, in Australia, boys as well) may impact the
incidence of head and neck cancers in years to come.
Epstein–Barr virus infection
• Associated with the undifferentiated form of nasopharyngeal cancer:
• analyses of tissue from these tumours confirm all are EBV-positive,
with monoclonal viral copies identified within malignant cells
• the precise role of EBV in malignant transformation remains to be
established.
• Also implicated in some salivary gland tumours.
Chronic syphilis infection
• Implicated in cancer of the oral cavity, in particular the tongue.

Aetiology

Precancerous lesions
• Certain oral lesions have been identified which may progress to
malignancy in some people, e.g. leukoplakia, erythroplakia.
• The incidence of transformation to invasive carcinoma is unclear but is
estimated to be <1%/year.

Genetic susceptibility
• There is believed to be a genetic susceptibility to some of the head and
neck cancers:
• germline mutations in p53 have been associated with oral cancer
• certain MHC profiles are associated with nasopharyngeal cancer
• patients with Fanconi anaemia have a markedly elevated risk of
head and neck squamous cell cancer. They also develop significantly
greater toxicity with cisplatin chemotherapy and radiotherapy, both
treatment modalities commonly used in these cancers.

Other environmental agents
• Formaldehyde—cancers of the pharynx and oral cavity.
•	Hard wood dust—adenocarcinoma of the ethmoids; woodworkers
have a 70 times greater relative risk.
• Soft wood dust—SCC of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses.
• Radiation exposure—salivary gland tumours, post-radiation sarcoma.

471

472

Chapter 21

Head and neck cancers

Epidemiology
Laryngeal cancer
• Second commonest of the head and neck cancers, although it comprises
<2% of all carcinomas in men.
• The annual incidence is 3–10 per 100 000.
• Predominantly a ♂ disease (75:1 in the UK), as are most head and neck
cancers.
• Typical age at diagnosis 40–80y, with 775% of cases diagnosed in
patients aged >60y.
• Lifetime risk of 1 in 175 for men.
•	Higher incidence in urban than rural areas.

Cancer of the oral cavity
• Worldwide, oral cancer has the highest incidence of the head and neck
cancers.
• Relatively uncommon in the UK, accounting for 72% of all new cancer
cases in men.
• Patients of South Asian origin are at increased risk.
• ♂ > ♀ (72:1).
• In the UK, the lifetime risk of developing oral cancer is estimated to
be 1 in 85 for men. Geographical variation in the incidence reflects the
differing prevalence of the main risk factors for oral cancer—smoking
and alcohol intake.
• 10–30% of patients with cancer of the oral cavity subsequently develop
a second head and neck °.
• The incidence of lung and bladder tumours is also increased in this
population.

Cancer of the pharynx
• Rare in the UK where the commonest site is the tonsil; 400 cases per
annum in England.
• The incidence of oropharyngeal cancers which are positive for HPV is
increasing, whilst the incidence of HPV-negative oropharyngeal cancers
(i.e. those related to tobacco and alcohol) is falling.
• Nasopharyngeal cancer rare in the UK, but more frequent in those of
southern Chinese and South East Asian origin, reflecting a combination
of differing genetic, dietary, and viral aetiological factors.

Cancer of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses
• Sinonasal malignancy is rare, <3% of head and neck cancers.
• Global figures suggest an incidence of <1/100 000 people per year in
most countries.
•	Occupational factors produce regional differences.
• ♂:♀ ratio is 72:1.
• The majority present between 50 and 70y.

Cancer of the salivary glands
• 3–6% of all head and neck neoplasms.
• Incidence of 1–3 per 100 000/year.
• Cancerous tumours present at a mean age of 60y; benign disease is
commoner in a younger age group.

Screening and prevention

Screening and prevention
• Currently, there is no national screening programme for this group of
cancers.
• In the UK, the emphasis is on public health education to:
• tackle the major modifiable risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use
• raise awareness of these cancers and their presenting symptoms
• reduce the number of patients presenting with advanced stage
disease.
• GPs and dentists may have unique opportunities for early diagnosis of
these cancers.

473

474

Chapter 21

Head and neck cancers

Pathology
Squamous cell carcinoma
• Account for >90% of cancers of the head and neck, particularly those
involving the larynx and oral cavity.
• Categorized as well, moderately, or poorly differentiated, depending on
the degree of keratinization.
• Typically, they invade adjacent structures, depending on the site of
origin, and spread via the lymphatics to regional lymph nodes in the
cervical chain, in preference to blood-borne spread.
•	Distant metastases are usually associated with advanced or recurrent °
tumour and may include mediastinal lymph node, lung, liver, and bone
spread.
• There is an association between squamous cell malignancy of the head
and neck and several pathological diagnoses believed to represent
pre-malignant conditions:
• leukoplakia—hyperparakeratosis ± underlying epithelial hyperplasia.
If this is an isolated abnormality, there is believed to be a ≤5%
chance of subsequent malignant change
• erythroplakia—superficial red patches adjacent to normal mucosa.
Frequently associated with epithelial dysplasia. Associated with CIS
or invasive disease in up to 40% of cases
• dysplasia—or CIS (if it involves the full mucosal thickness).
Progression to invasive disease is believed to occur in 15–30%
of cases.
• A verrucous tumour (also named Ackerman’s tumour):
• variant of well-differentiated SCC
• presents as a whitish, cauliflower-like growth
• histology confirms a pushing margin, with a marked surrounding
inflammatory cell response
• lymphatic spread is rare.
• Spindle cell carcinomas behave as SCCs.

Other pathologies
Histology
• Adenocarcinomas arising from salivary tissue, e.g. in the oral cavity.
• Melanoma.
• Sarcoma, e.g. osteosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma.
Timing
Patients with head and neck squamous cancer are more likely to develop
second ° cancers than any other group of patients with malignancies.
These may be:
• synchronous:
• occurring at, or near, the same time as the original tumour.
• metachronous:
• occurring >6mo later.
• 715% of ‘cured’ patients with previously treated head and neck cancer
present with further ° (at a rate of 3–5% per year)

Pathology

• The mucosa adjacent to the carcinoma frequently contains areas of
dysplastic changes, CIS, or occult invasive carcinoma
•	High risk of multiple ° reflects the carcinogenic effects of prolonged
exposure to tobacco and alcohol over the whole of the aerodigestive
tract and urothelium (‘field effect’)
• Second tumours are often clonally distinct and therefore are not felt
to represent loco-regional recurrence or metastatic spread from the
original °.

Tumours of the salivary glands
• Represent a very different spectrum of diseases, compared to the
commoner head and neck tumours.
• The commonest location of a salivary gland tumour is the parotid gland
(70–85%).
• Most parotid tumours are benign (>75%).
• Tumours of the minor salivary glands represent only 5–8% of salivary
gland disease, but >80% of these are cancerous.
• The most frequent salivary gland tumour is the pleomorphic adenoma
(also known as the mixed parotid tumour):
• a benign epithelial tumour that only rarely undergoes malignant
transformation
• local recurrence, following enucleation, is common
• treatment is most commonly with formal parotidectomy.
• Malignant tumours that occur in the salivary glands include:
• mucoepidermoid carcinoma
• adenocarcinoma
• squamous carcinoma
• adenoid cystic carcinoma
• undifferentiated carcinoma
• metastasis from other ° sites, e.g. breast or lung cancer
• lymphoma.

475

476

Chapter 21

Head and neck cancers

Presentation
• Characteristic local symptoms depend on the site and size of the °
lesion.
• Malignancy of the head and neck may not uncommonly present with
painless cervical lymphadenopathy.
• Any of the symptoms listed should raise suspicion, particularly when
occurring in:
• ♂
• >45y old
• the context of heavy alcohol/tobacco usage.

Laryngeal cancer
• A hoarse voice is typical if the cancer is affecting the glottis (the
commonest site of laryngeal cancer in the UK and US). Urgent referral
should be made if this persists >6wk.
• A persistent irritating cough and dysphagia or odynophagia (painful
swallowing) are characteristic of supraglottic carcinoma, which typically
presents with advanced disease, often including a palpable neck mass.
•	Dyspnoea/stridor can be caused by subglottic cancers that grow
circumferentially. These are rare (<5%).
• ± referred pain in the ear.
• ± haemoptysis.

Cancer of the oral cavity
• Persistent mouth ulcers, painful ulcerative lesion on the lip, or exophytic
growth lasting >3wk.
• White or red patches on the tongue, gums, or lining of the mouth.
•	Dental problems, e.g. loose teeth, dentures no longer fitting.
•	Dysphagia/odynophagia.
• Numbness/change in sensation of the lower lip or chin.
• Referred pain in the ear.
•	Dysarthria if there is involvement of the tongue.
• Lymphadenopathy.
• Weight loss.
Tumours commonly extend to involve >1 region within the oral cavity:
• tongue, 60%
• floor of the mouth, 15%
• alveolar ridge/retromolar trigone, 10%
• buccal mucosa, 10%
• hard palate, 5%.

Cancer of the pharynx
The pattern of symptoms tends to differ, according to the ° site of disease.
Nasopharyngeal cancer
• Cervical lymphadenopathy (up to 90% of patients).
• Nasal symptoms—bleeding, obstruction, or discharge.
• Unilateral hearing loss ± serous otitis media (2° to Eustachian tube
blockage) ± tinnitus.

Presentation

•	Headache.
• Cranial nerve palsies due to base of skull invasion.
Oropharyngeal cancer
• Sore throat or lump in the throat.
• Pain referred to the ear.
Hypopharyngeal cancer
•	Dysphagia and lump in the throat.
•	Odynophagia.
• Pain referred to the ear.
•	Hoarse voice.

Cancer of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses
• Epistaxis.
• Unilateral nasal obstruction ± serosanguinous or purulent discharge.
• Pain and paraesthesiae, especially of the cheek, nose, or upper lip.
• Ulceration.
• Proptosis, diplopia, chemosis ± visual loss if there is involvement of the
orbit with displacement of the globe.

Tumours of the salivary glands
• Painless lump within the substance of a salivary gland, as opposed to
enlargement of the whole gland.
•	Differentiation between an enlarged gland and a lump in the gland is
often difficult.
• Benign and malignant salivary gland tumours may be indistinguishable
clinically.
• Features highly suggestive of malignancy include:
• infiltration of surrounding structures
• facial pain
• facial nerve palsy.

477

478

Chapter 21

Head and neck cancers

Investigations
The aims of investigations include:
• identifying the ° tumour site and extent—including cytological or
histological confirmation of the diagnosis
• detecting any other synchronous °—not uncommon in this group of
patients
• staging the disease.
It is also important to assess general fitness because:
• significant co-morbidities, such as ischaemic heart disease (IHD) and
obstructive airways disease, are common in patients with head and neck
cancer, primarily because of shared aetiological risk factors
• surgical management is often optimal, necessitating a general
anaesthetic. Positive steps to minimize the anaesthetic risk should begin
as soon as the potential need for surgery is identified, e.g control of
hypertension.

Physical examination
This should include:
• a thorough visual inspection of the region, including mirror examination.
This has largely been superseded by flexible fibreoptic endoscopy—to
allow visualization of the nasopharynx, hypopharynx, base of the
tongue, larynx, and vocal cord mobility
• bimanual examination of the oral cavity
• palpation of regional lymph nodes—cervical lymph node spread is an
important determinant of prognosis. However, clinical examination
should be combined with appropriate imaging due to the high false
negative rate (15–30% for cervical lymph nodes) and false positive rate
(30–40% for cervical nodes) from clinical examination alone
• general physical examination—as a clinical assessment of potential
metastatic disease (which is commonly asymptomatic)
• ± examination and biopsy under anaesthesia.

Bloods
• FBC, and urea and electrolytes (U & Es).
• LFTs and coagulation screen—commonly abnormal because of
concomitant alcohol excess.

Imaging
• The extent of imaging will depend on the site and size of the ° tumour,
e.g. early laryngeal cancer has a very low risk of distant spread and
requires only loco-regional cross-sectional imaging.
• CT scan to determine:
• the extent of local tumour infiltration, particularly invasion of bone/
cartilage (T4 disease)
• the radiological evidence of regional nodal involvement
• the development of synchronous ° tumours
• the presence of distant metastases
• the commonest sites of dissemination being the lungs, then the liver,
then bones.

Investigations

• MRI of the head and neck:
• may provide better soft tissue definition.
• FDG-PET-CT scan—this is now part of the standard work-up of
patients with advanced head and neck cancer, or those at high risk of
distant metastases, and picks up local and distant nodal spread. Whilst
local disease may still warrant surgery, more limited surgery to control
symptoms may be appropriate, if distant spread is diagnosed.
• Images reflect the rates of glucose metabolism within tissues.
• Particularly useful in identifying occult ° tumours in patients
presenting with confirmed nodal disease.
• Increasing role, particularly in patients where tumour staging is
unclear, despite CT/MRI.
• Superior to MRI and CT for detecting second °, and regional and
distant metastases.
• USS:
• often relatively straightforward to arrange and useful for guiding FNA
• can identify nodal metastases, even when nodal disease not clinically
apparent (720% of cases).
• Skeletal scintigraphy:
• if bone metastases suspected, but not identified on CT
• e.g. in nasopharyngeal cancer, 725% of patients with low cervical or
supraclavicular nodes, who have a positive bone scan, will have 2°.
• PET:
• not used in isolation, as provides inadequate anatomical detail.

Histology
• Biopsy—if the ° tumour is identified and accessible. The exception is
salivary gland tumours when FNA is preferred to biopsy to minimize the
risk of tumour seeding.
• FNA—of a metastatic lymph node mass; non-diagnostic in up to 15% of
cases, although this figure improves with the use of ultrasound guidance.

479

480

Chapter 21

Head and neck cancers

TNM staging
• Staging systems for head and neck cancers are based on the ‘TNM
system’ and are broadly similar for each of the anatomical sites of origin.
•	Details that differ between the staging systems typically take into
account of whether the involvement of particular local structures will
affect if radical treatment is appropriate, and hence the effect on the
overall prognosis.
• T—the extent of the ° tumour:
• generally reflects the size of the tumour ± involvement of bone or
cartilage (T4)
• for some sites, T4 tumours are further divided into potentially
resectable (T4a) or unresectable (T4b).
• N—involvement of regional lymph nodes.
• M—the absence (0) or presence (1) of distant metastases or the
inability to assess for their presence (X).
The AJCC staging system for laryngeal cancer, updated in 2010, is given
as an example (see M https://cancerstaging.org to download the TNM
staging).

TNM staging

481

482

Chapter 21

Head and neck cancers

Management
• Investigation and management should be coordinated by an MDT with
expertise in the complex medical, psychological, and functional issues
that affect patients with head and neck cancers.
• The MDT should be serving a large enough population, such that
they maintain sufficient expertise in these cancers. The more unusual
cancers need to be managed by even more specialized teams within the
network.
• Coexisting socio-economic deprivation can complicate management.
• Compliance may be problematic.
• Support services available should include:
• clinical nurse specialists
• dentists
• dieticians
• speech and language therapists.

Pre-malignant lesions
• Pre-malignant lesions require specialist management because:
• they may subsequently develop into frank carcinoma
• patients with pre-malignant lesions are at high risk of other ° malignant
neoplasms, especially within the upper aerodigestive tract and lungs.
• Treatment is usually by excision, followed by examination by an
experienced pathologist.
• Classification should be based on the grade of dysplasia, as this has a
bearing on prognosis.
• Radiotherapy may be appropriate for frequently recurring or diffuse
lesions, e.g. on the vocal cords.

Malignant lesions
• The aim of treatment is to combine optimal rates of cure with the best
functional results.
• Where cure is not feasible, every attempt should be made to provide
loco-regional disease control.
• Before beginning treatment, it is important to:
• establish the nutritional status—including the baseline weight and the
risk of malnutrition during therapy (elective insertion of an NG or
enterostomy feeding tube may be appropriate). A specialist dietician
should be involved, wherever possible
• refer for dental assessment—including the completion of any
necessary dental treatment. Ongoing mouth care advice will be
needed during and after treatment
• correct anaemia—Hb must be maintained at ≥12g/dL throughout
treatment for optimal results from radiotherapy
• encourage smoking cessation. Continued smoking during treatment
has multiple risks
— greater anaesthetic risk
— higher complication rate following radiotherapy
— lower rates of local control
— lower probability of survival
• undertake a speech and language assessment.

Management

• There are few randomized trials comparing treatment modalities—the
evidence is mainly at level III (i.e. based largely on retrospective case
series). This is partly due to the relative rarity of tumours arising from
each anatomical site.
• Most head and neck cancers are treated with surgery, radiotherapy, or a
combination of the two:
• generally, T1–2, N0, M0 disease can be treated with single-modality
treatment, and retrospective data suggest the results achieved by
surgery or radiotherapy alone are equivalent, although the side effect
profiles are different
• in more advanced disease, combined-modality regimes are frequently
adopted, depending on the ° site.

Management of early-stage disease
• 30–40% of patients with head and neck cancer present with stage I or II
disease, with an overall prognosis of 60–98%, depending on the site of
the °, etc.
Surgery alone
• Potential advantages of surgery alone include:
• complete pathological staging of the disease
• quick local clearance of the disease
• newer surgical techniques, e.g. for early laryngeal cancer, may
conserve the voice
• treatment of metachronous head and neck tumours is not
compromised
• avoids the toxicity of radiotherapy, including the risk of
radiotherapy-induced second malignancies
• for major salivary gland tumours, preoperative open biopsy should
be avoided (risk of tumour seeding). However, fine needle biopsy,
with an experienced head and neck cytopathologist, is safe. °
excision can be used as a simultaneous diagnostic and therapeutic
procedure.
Radiotherapy alone
• Recent advances in imaging techniques and radiation delivery have
benefited patients with head and neck cancers.
• A typical radiotherapy regime might comprise 60–70Gy, administered to
the ° site over 6–7wk.
• Treatment may be with external photon beams alone or with photons
followed by an electron boost, or by interstitial therapy, e.g. using
iridium wire.
• IMRT (see Chapter 4) is increasingly available and permits better control
of the delivered radiation dose. Randomized trials have demonstrated
that IMRT is associated with significantly lower rates of some side
effects, e.g. dry mouth.
• Advantages of ° radiotherapy include:
• the avoidance of operative mortality in patients who have significant
co-morbidities
• surgical clearance may be difficult or impossible

483

484

Chapter 21

Head and neck cancers

organ conservation is more likely, including the preservation of the
voice and swallowing
• option of elective radiotherapy treatment of clinically occult regional
lymph node disease, with relatively little extra morbidity (compared
with elective neck dissection)
• surgery remains an option as salvage therapy in the event of
treatment failure. However, subsequent surgery is likely to be
associated with greater morbidity, e.g. total laryngectomy is usually
required after failure of ° radiotherapy for laryngeal cancer
• allows the treatment of multiple synchronous °.
• Toxicity of radiotherapy includes:
• mucositis and dry mouth (xerostomia)—may persist, depending on
the amount of salivary tissue spared from irradiation
• chronic ulceration of the mucosa and osteonecrosis—particularly
with locally advanced tumours involving the mandible
• dry eye/cataract, pituitary dysfunction, and CNS necrosis—the
radiation dose to the eyes, brain, and spinal cord must be kept within
tolerance. Conformal techniques and CT planning allow reduction in
the dosage to normal tissue.
•

Surgery versus radiotherapy
• Cure rates with ° radiotherapy are generally believed to be equivalent
to those for surgery for early-stage disease of many head and neck
tumours.
• In certain clinical situations, radiotherapy is clearly the first-line
treatment of choice, e.g. in nasopharyngeal carcinoma when the use of
surgery is limited to staging.
• In other clinical situations, surgery is the first choice, if at all possible, e.g.
tumours of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses.
Combined surgery and radiotherapy
• Combination therapy is generally the best choice for bulky tumours.
The aim of using both modalities is to minimize the risk of loco-regional
disease recurrence.
• The most important risk factors for the prediction of recurrence and
the need for post-operative radiotherapy are:
• positive resection margins
• extracapsular lymph node spread
• T3–4 ° tumour
• perineural or vascular invasion
• poorly differentiated tumour
• ≥N2 disease.
Management of involved neck nodes
Options include the following:
• therapeutic radiotherapy:
• appropriate for N1 disease, particularly if radiotherapy is also being
used to treat the °
• 60–65Gy, administered over 6wk, will control 90% of N1 nodes

Management

• therapeutic neck dissection:
• should be considered for patients with more advanced nodal disease
(N2–3) and an operable °
• there are no prospective trials to support subsequent adjuvant
radiotherapy, but retrospective series suggest it has a role if there is
a high risk of local relapse
• radical neck dissection:
• removes the superficial and deep cervical fascia with the enclosed
lymph nodes (levels I–V), along with the sternomastoid muscle,
omohyoid muscle, internal and external jugular veins, accessory
nerve, and submandibular gland
• modified neck dissection:
• preserves vital structures such as the accessory nerve (functional
dissection).
Complications after neck dissection include:
• haematoma
• seroma
• lymphoedema
• infection
• damage to VII, X, XI, and XII cranial nerves
• carotid rupture.
Post-irradiation neck dissection
• May be planned electively after radiotherapy (e.g. 50Gy) for advanced
nodal disease.
• More commonly used to salvage regional relapse after radiotherapy.
The role of SLNB and the management of micrometastases are uncertain.
In many centres, SLNB is being established.
Post-operative chemo-radiotherapy
• Results published in 2004 from two large randomized trials support
the use of post-operative chemo-radiotherapy in selected high-risk fit
patients with resected squamous cell head and neck cancers.
• Radiotherapy with concurrent administration of cisplatin:
• has been associated with fewer loco-regional relapses and
improvements in DFS
• an improvement in OS has not been consistently demonstrated
• the incidence of significant toxicity in the patients receiving both
cisplatin and radiotherapy was over double the incidence in patients
receiving radiotherapy alone.

Treatment of locally advanced unresectable disease
Chemo-radiotherapy
• >60% of squamous cell head and neck cancers have advanced
loco-regional disease at presentation (stages III/IV, M0).
• In some cases, surgery remains an option and can result in 5y survival
rates of 20–50%, if combined with radiotherapy.
• In many cases, surgery is either technically not possible or would be
associated with unacceptable morbidity, e.g. base of tongue cancer
requiring glossectomy and consequent loss of normal voice and swallow.

485

486

Chapter 21

Head and neck cancers

• Significant co-morbidity may also mean that the operative risk is deemed
too great.
• ° radiotherapy for unresectable stage III or IV head and neck cancer is
associated with a 5y survival of only 10–30%.
• Combined-modality therapy:
• the use of radiotherapy with concurrent chemotherapy in such cases
has been demonstrated to be associated with a modest survival
advantage over treatment with radiotherapy alone (4–8% increase in
5y survival)
• the most commonly studied chemotherapy regime so far has been
single-agent cisplatin, although combination regimes have also been
used and may be associated with further improvements in outcome
• associated with increased toxicity, in particular mucositis
• most appropriate in patients with good performance status and
relatively few co-morbidities.
• The rationale for adding chemotherapy to radiotherapy includes:
• its role as a radiosensitizer
• its cytotoxic effects on occult metastatic cells
• the potential for limiting repair of radiation-induced DNA damage.
Biological therapies
Cetuximab:
• an IV administered human/mouse chimeric IgG mAb
• competitively binds to the EGFR, preventing TK activation and inhibiting,
amongst other cellular processes, tumour proliferation (see Chapter 9).
EGFR is overexpressed in many head and neck cancers, e.g. 790% of
head and neck squamous cell cancers
• a randomized trial compared radiotherapy alone versus the combination
of radiotherapy and concurrent weekly cetuximab in >400 patients with
locally advanced SCC of the head and neck. The use of cetuximab was
associated with significant improvements:
• longer duration of loco-regional control (24.4mo versus 14.9mo)
• greater median OS (49mo versus 29.3mo)
• no increase in mucositis, although significant skin toxicity was more
frequent in the group receiving combined-modality treatment
• cetuximab was given NICE approval in 2008 for the treatment of fit
patients (Karnowsky score ≥90%) with locally advanced head and
neck cancer receiving radiotherapy, for whom all platinum-based
chemotherapy is inappropriate
• the level of EGFR overexpression does not correlate with the clinical
response to cetuximab. Instead, mutation in the KRAS gene correlates
with poor response to cetuximab. KRAS wild-type status predicts benefit
from cetuximab. 795% of head and neck squamous cell cancers are
KRAS wild-type.

Management

Management of metastatic disease
Chemotherapy
Advanced squamous cell carcinoma
• Prognosis is poor, with a median survival of only 6–9mo.
• Treatment choices for recurrent or metastatic disease depend on
whether treatment has previously been received for early-stage disease.
• Certain chemotherapy agents have been shown to be active, e.g.
cisplatin, the taxanes (docetaxel and paclitaxel), fluorouracil, MTX, and
pemetrexed.
• Cetuximab is also active in advanced disease.
• Single-agent therapy:
• the median survival with treatment is only around 6mo
• e.g. MTX, cisplatin, or cetuximab (approved for use in the US for
platinum-refractory disease).
• Combination regimes:
• appear to achieve the highest response rates (15–30%)
• a survival advantage over single-agent treatment has not been
consistently demonstrated
• can only be considered in patients with good performance status
• e.g. a platinum agent with either fluorouracil ± cetuximab, or
alternatively with a taxane.
• Nasopharyngeal carcinomas seem particularly chemosensitive, with
response rates of up to 70% reported in advanced disease.
• Good communication is critical in helping the patient weigh up options
for palliative treatment and in approaching end of life issues. Early
involvement of clinical nurse specialists and palliative care nurses can
ease the transition from curative to palliative treatment.
Disseminated or unresectable salivary tumours
• Typically chemosensitive.
• Response rates of up to 50% are reported.
• The duration of response is usually only a few months.
• The regime chosen can be tailored to the histology of the disease.

487

488

Chapter 21

Head and neck cancers

Prognosis and follow-up
Follow-up is important in patients treated with curative intent for head and
neck cancer. The aims of surveillance include:
• early detection of loco-regional recurrence:
• occurs in 20–50% of patients
• the major contributor to head and neck cancer-related deaths
• early detection will improve the chances of successful salvage
therapy
• detection of new °:
• the incidence of new ° cancers is 3–5% per year (10–15% overall)
• management of the late effects of treatment.
The role of routine PET-CT scanning in follow-up is increasingly used. It may
help to diagnose early relapse, e.g. when CT shows equivocal abnormalities.

Laryngeal cancer
• 90% of recurrences occur within 3y.
•	High risk of second ° malignancies (12–20%).
• Patients with supraglottic laryngeal cancer are at particular risk of
subsequent ° lung cancer—CXR, and even bronchoscopy, may be
considered in regular follow-up. Spiral CT may also have a role.

Cancer of the oral cavity
• >80% 5y survival for those presenting with early-stage, localized disease.
• >40% 5y survival for patients with loco-regional nodal involvement.
• <20% 5y survival for those with distant metastases.

Cancer of the pharynx
• Reported 5y survival rates for nasopharyngeal carcinoma range from
>80% for stage I disease to <30% for patients presenting with advanced
tumours.
• Follow-up after treatment for early-stage disease should be most
intensive in the first 3y, when the majority of recurrences occur.
• The prognosis is less good for localized oropharyngeal cancers, with a
5y survival of 750% for those presenting with stage I disease, although
survival with advanced disease is similar to that with metastatic
nasopharyngeal cancer.
• Tonsillar cancer, in general, has a better prognosis, with survival of
>80% at 5y, even for stage III disease.
• Patients with HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer have a better
prognosis than those whose cancers are HPV-negative.

Cancer of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses
• Presentation is most commonly with locally advanced tumours that
remain potentially curable with radical surgery and radiotherapy.
• Regional metastases are infrequent—occurring in <20% of patients at
presentation.

Prognosis and follow-up

Cancer of the salivary glands
• The 5y survival is 75–85% for those presenting with early-stage,
localized (stage I) malignant disease of the salivary glands but falls to
730% for patients presenting with disseminated disease (stage IV).
• More than one-fifth of recurrences occur over 5y, following treatment
for the ° disease.

489

490

Chapter 21

Head and neck cancers

Rehabilitation
• The treatment of many head and neck cancers has significant associated
long-term morbidity.
• Patients may have to adjust to huge changes in both appearance and
function.
• A high level of specialist support from many different disciplines in the
months and years following their treatment can significantly improve the
quality of life.
Specific difficulties that require ongoing input include the following.

Speech
• The greatest handicap for patients after a total laryngectomy is the loss
of voice.
•	Options include:
• oesophageal speech—740% of patients acquire socially useful speech
using this method
• artificial larynx device—used successfully by some patients
• fistula operations with the insertion of speech valvulas—increasingly
performed and well tolerated
• specialist speech and language therapists—should be involved
throughout the patient’s care
• support groups or web-based information sites helpful,
e.g. M http://www.theial.org

Airway management
• Patients may have to adjust to breathing through a stoma.
• If the airway has been separated from the gullet, they will have to learn
to manage their airway secretions.
•	Heat and moisture exchangers are commonly used to lower the risk of
respiratory problems and can be positioned in front of the stoma.

Dentistry
• Specialist dentists should be involved in follow-up, due to the specific
problems that occur following, e.g. radiotherapy to the mouth. These
include:
• frequent dental caries
• poor healing after tooth extraction
• the potential for late osteoradionecrosis.

Nutrition
• Malnutrition is a particular risk in patients with head and neck cancers,
with up to three-quarters of patients being malnourished at the point of
diagnosis.
• There is considerable morbidity associated with poor nutrition.
Treatment given to malnourished patients is associated with:
• higher complication rates
• lower response rates.

Rehabilitation

• Malnutrition is multifactorial and may be due to:
• pre-existing lifestyle factors, e.g. alcohol, poor self-care
• direct effects of the cancer, e.g. local pain, obstruction
• acute effects of treatment, e.g. nausea, post-operative pain
• late effects of treatment, e.g. d saliva, difficulty swallowing, difference
in taste.
• Input from a dietician, with expertise in patients treated for head and
neck cancers, is vital.

Psychological support
• Many patients with cancer share common stresses, including the fear of
recurrence, the uncertainty for the future, etc.
• Patients with head and neck cancers often experience additional stresses
specific to their diagnosis. These include:
• change in appearance, e.g. facial disfigurement
• change in function, e.g. feeding, speech.
• The adjustment to changes in appearance can also be problematic for
relatives.
• Regular psychological assessments and specialized psychological support
should be routinely available to patients diagnosed with head and neck
cancers.
• Patient support groups and self-help literature also have a role in helping
patients and their relatives to cope.

Ongoing alcohol and tobacco dependency
• Strenuous efforts must be made to encourage patients to stop smoking
and cut back on their alcohol intake.
• Currently, there is little evidence to support formal smoking cessation
programmes, e.g. in a trial of newly diagnosed patients with head and
neck cancer, randomized to either ‘usual care’ or a formal smoking
cessation programme, the rate of ongoing smoking after 1y fell by the
same amount (88% l 70%).

491

492

Chapter 21

Head and neck cancers

Intra-ocular tumours
Melanoma
• See E Intra-ocular melanoma, p. 540.

Retinoblastoma
• Rare intra-ocular tumour, arising in young children, usually in the first 2y
of life; incidence of 1 in 20 000.
• The disease is hereditary (autosomal dominant) and often bilateral.
• Patients should be managed in combined clinics by ophthalmologists
experienced in the management of retinoblastoma.
• Biopsy should not be performed.
Management
• Small tumours not adjacent to the macula or optic
disc—photocoagulation.
• Small/moderate tumours—radioactive plaques (iodine, ruthenium
plaques—40Gy).
• Large or multiple tumours—external radiotherapy.
• May need to irradiate the whole eye (40Gy, 20 fractions over 4wk); try
to maintain vision.
•	Occasionally, enucleation is required—if the tumour fills the
whole globe.
• The tumour is also chemosensitive:
• platinum
• etoposide
• vincristine
• doxorubicin
• cyclophosphamide.
• Chemotherapy is useful if the tumour has a bad prognosis or in
neoadjuvant setting.
• Prognosis—90% survival; 80% of patients can have the eye preserved.

Metastatic disease
• Metastatic disease involving the eye is usually associated with choroidal
metastases.
• The commonest tumours implicated are the lung and breast.
• An oncological emergency, if vision threatened.
• Usually treatment with radiotherapy.

Further reading

Further reading
Curado MP, Boyle P (2013). Epidemiology of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma not related to
tobacco or alcohol. Curr Opin Oncol 25, 229–34.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (2012). Improving outcomes in head and
neck cancers: evidence update May 2012. Available at: M https://www.evidence.nhs.uk/
evidence-update-17.
Roland NJ, Paleri V (eds.) (2011). Head and neck cancer: multidisciplinary management guidelines,
4th edn. London: ENT UK. Available at: M https://www.entuk.org/sites/default/files/files/
head_and_neck_cancer.pdf.
VanderWalde NA, Fleming M, Weiss J, Chera BS (2013). Treatment of older patients with head and
neck cancer: a review. Oncologist 18, 568–78.

493

Chapter 22

Tumours of the central
nervous system
Primary central nervous system tumours 496
Investigations and staging 502
Treatment of primary central nervous system tumours 504
Radiotherapy for primary central nervous system tumours 510
Chemotherapy for primary central nervous system tumours 513
Prognosis for primary central nervous system tumours 514
Recent advances and future treatments for primary central
nervous system tumours 516
Brain metastases 518
Further reading 521

495

496

Chapter 22

Tumours of the CNS

Primary central nervous system tumours
Epidemiology
The incidence worldwide is very uniform, with a few exceptions such as a
higher incidence of pineal tumours in Japan and CNS lymphoma in acquired
immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) populations. Recent reports suggest
that the incidence of glioma and (non-AIDS) lymphoma is increasing in
developed countries. In the UK:
• 79300 ° tumours of the CNS were diagnosed in 2009
• ° CNS tumours account for 2% of all malignancies
• in 2010, there were 4800 deaths from ° tumours of the CNS
• almost half of intracranial tumours may not be registered, so current
statistics may significantly underestimate the true number
• peak incidence 70–80y
• as the proportion of the elderly in the population rises, the incidence is
expected to rise
• ° brain tumours show a bimodal age distribution:
• in children, they are the commonest solid malignancies, around 390
cases annually in the UK, predominantly arising in the posterior fossa
• second peak in (late) middle age with largely supratentorial tumours.

Aetiology
• The majority of ° CNS tumours are sporadic.
• The main risk factors are increasing age, ♀ sex, and higher
socio-economic status.
• Gliomas and meningiomas may be induced by radiation.
• There is an association between ° CNS lymphoma and
immunosuppression, including HIV infection.
•	A number of rare familial syndromes are associated with CNS tumours
(see Table 22.1).
• Other candidate aetiological agents remain controversial and unproven,
e.g. industrial and agricultural chemicals, electromagnetic fields, viruses,
and trauma.

Pathology
The ° CNS tumour pathology is extremely varied, reflecting a diverse
histogenesis.
The terms benign and malignant are not useful because:
• even small, slow-growing tumours may cause severe and detrimental
symptoms, because the brain is contained within a rigid structure
• surgery may be difficult due to infiltration of surrounding structures
and/or close proximity to critical structures
• most tumours rarely metastasize outside the CNS
• slow-growing tumours may transform into a more aggressive type.

Primary central nervous system tumours

Table 22.1 Hereditary syndromes associated with ° CNS tumours
Syndrome

Gene

Chromosome

Associated tumours

Neurofibromatosis
type 1

NF1

17q11

Neurofibroma, optic nerve
glioma, astrocytoma, malignant
nerve sheath tumour

Neurofibromatosis
type 2

NF2

18q22

Astrocytoma, multiple
meningioma, bilateral acoustic
schwannoma, glial hamartoma

Li–Fraumeni
syndrome

p53

17p13

Astrocytoma, primitive
neuroectodermal tumour

vHL syndrome

VHL

3p25

Cerebellar
haemangioblastoma

Gorlin’s syndrome

PTCH

9q22

Medulloblastoma

Tuberous sclerosis

TSC1

9q34

TSC2

16p13

Subependymal giant cell
astrocytoma

APC

5q21

HMLP1

3p21

HPSM2

7p22

PTEN

10q23

Turcots’s syndrome

Cowden disease

Medulloblastoma,
glioblastoma

Dysplastic gangliocytoma of
the cerebellum

The most widely used classification system is the WHO 2007 scheme (see
Table 22.2). This classifies CNS tumours into the basic types of tumours
of neuroepithelial tissues, germ cell tumours, tumours of the peripheral
nerves, tumours of the meninges, lymphomas and haematopoeitic tumours,
tumours of the sellar region, and metastatic tumours. Each type has further
subdivisions.
The WHO classification also describes tumours by their histopathological grade: low grade (slow-growing, types I and II) and high grade (rapidly
growing and aggressive, types III and IV).
° CNS tumours can be divided into ° intracranial tumours and spinal
cord tumours, which account for 90% and 10%, respectively. The frequency
of intracranial pathologies is shown in Table 22.3. Spinal cord tumours can
be described by their relation to the spinal cord and dura. The pathologies
occurring at these sites are shown in Table 22.4. The commonest ° spinal
tumour is schwannoma, followed by meningioma and ependymoma.
By far, the commonest ° CNS tumour is the glioma—the behaviour and
prognosis are strongly linked to the histological grade:

497

498

Chapter 22

Tumours of the CNS

Table 22.2 Abbreviated WHO (2007) classification of CNS tumours
Tissue of origin

Tumour group

Pathological diagnosis

Neuroepithelial
tumours

Astrocytic tumours

Pilocytic astrocytoma
Diffuse astrocytoma
Anaplastic astrocytoma
Glioblastoma

Oligodendroglial
tumours

Oligodendroglioma

Mixed gliomas

Oligoastrocytoma

Anaplastic oligodendroglioma
Anaplastic oligogastrocytoma

Ependymal tumours

Myxopapillary ependymoma
Subependymoma
Ependymoma
Anaplastic ependymoma

Neuroepithelial
tumours of uncertain
origin

Astroblastoma

Neuronal and mixed
neuronal–glial tumours

Gangliocytoma

Gliomatosis cerebri
Malignant peripheral nerve sheath
tumour (MPNST)
Ganglioblastoma
Neurocytoma

Embryonal tumours

Medulloblastoma
PNET

Choroid plexus
tumours

Choroid plexus papilloma

Pineal parenchymal
tumours

Pineocytoma
Pineoblastoma

Meningeal
tumours

Meningioma

Germ cell
tumours

Germinoma

Haemangiopericytoma
Embryonal carcinoma
Yolk sac tumour
Choriocarcinoma
Teratoma
Mixed germ cell tumour

Tumours of
cranial and
paraspinal nerves

Schwannoma

Primary central nervous system tumours

Table 22.2 (contd.)
Tissue of origin

Tumour group

Tumours of the
sellar region

Pathological diagnosis
Pituitary adenoma
Pituitary carcinoma
Craniopharyngioma

° CNS
lymphoma

Malignant lymphoma
Plasmacytoma

Metastatic
tumours

Table 22.3 Frequency of ° intracranial tumours
Tumour type

Frequency (%)

Glioma

45

Meningioma

27

Pituitary

10

Nerve sheath

7

Lymphoma

4

Medulloblastoma and other PNETs

2

All neuron and neuron/glial tumours

1

Germ cell tumours

<1

Craniopharyngioma

1

Choroid plexus

<1

Other

3

Table 22.4 Classification of spinal cord tumours by their relation to the
spinal cord and dura
Location

Tumour type

Extradural

Metastatic (carcinoma, lymphoma, melanoma, sarcoma)
Chordoma

Intradural
Intramedullary

Astrocytoma, ependymoma

Extramedullary

Schwannoma, meningioma

499

500

Chapter 22

Tumours of the CNS

• grade I—slow-growing and may be cured by surgical excision
• grade II—slow-growing but infiltrative, recurring after surgery
• grades III and IV—show typical features of malignancy, with mitotic
activity, invasion of the adjacent normal brain, and occasionally
distant spread
• overall, 50% of gliomas are grade IV glioblastoma multiforme (GBM)—
typically areas of prominent abnormal vascularity, haemorrhage, and
necrosis.
Although imaging may be diagnostic of some ° CNS tumours, in most
cases, it offers only a differential diagnosis. Precise histological diagnosis is
desirable to direct appropriate management. However, for many patients,
this is not possible, either due to hazardous tumour location (e.g. brainstem) or poor performance status. In these cases, a presumptive diagnosis
is made on clinical and radiological findings.

Clinical presentation
Tumours of the CNS can present with a wide range of physical, cognitive,
and psychological symptoms.
Intracranial tumours tend to present either with neurological dysfunction or with symptoms and signs of raised ICP, depending on their location
within the brain. Presentation with epilepsy or a slow onset of symptoms
carries a relatively favourable prognosis. The frequency of symptoms in
patients with intracranial glioma is shown in Table 22.5. High-grade gliomas are typically associated with considerable oedema in the surrounding normal brain, and this contributes significantly to pressure symptoms.
Symptom relief may be obtained through reduction of cerebral oedema
by the introduction of steroids, e.g. dexamethasone 8–16mg daily, with PPI
gastroprotection, prior to biopsy or craniotomy. Maintenance of symptom
control can often be achieved with a reduced dexamethasone dose (2–4mg
daily), with reduced side effects.
Pituitary tumours may present with a visual field defect due to the close
proximity of the pituitary gland to the optic chiasm. The clinical features
of pituitary tumours also correlate with the amount and type of hormone
secreted.
Spinal cord tumours are likely to present with focal neurological symptoms related to compression or invasion of nerve roots or the cord itself.
A common presenting symptom is pain along a nerve root. As the commonest ° cord tumours are slow-growing, the onset of symptoms may
be insidious.
Skull base tumours may cause specific symptoms such as cranial nerve
palsies and difficulty with balance or hearing. Of note, the most commonly
occurring tumour at this site is schwannoma.

Primary central nervous system tumours

Table 22.5 Presenting symptoms in patients with intracranial glioma
Symptom

Frequency as principal
presenting symptom (%)

Overall frequency at
presentation (%)

Seizures

30

53

Headache

25

71

Cognitive distance

12

52

Motor disturbance

8

43

Speech disturbance

5

27

Clouding of
consciousness

4

25

Visual disturbance

4

25

Sensory change

2

14

Miscellaneous

10

501

502

Chapter 22

Tumours of the CNS

Investigations and staging
Investigation and management of all patients with a suspected ° CNS
tumour should be coordinated by a neuro-oncology MDT.
Investigation is dominated by CNS imaging:
• CT—contrast-enhanced CT of the brain is readily available and
frequently adequate to demonstrate CNS tumours. However, CT may
miss early tumours, especially in the temporal lobes and posterior fossa
•	MRI—full-sequence scanning with gadolinium enhancement provides
maximal tumour resolution in structural imaging
• functional imaging with SPECT, PET, and MR are gaining importance in
both the diagnosis and assessment of response to treatment:
• imaging agents thallium-201 and 123I-tyrosine in SPECT scanning
18
•
FDG in PET can give important insights into the functional activity
of the tumour, albeit hindered by high background activity in the
grey matter
• can aid the differentiation between high- or low-grade neoplasms
and treatment-induced necrosis.
• tumours that spread via CSF pathways require whole neuraxis MRI (e.g.
medulloblastoma, ependymoma).
Histological confirmation of the diagnosis should ideally be obtained in all
cases. Methods of biopsy include:
• stereotactic biopsy
• neuroradiologically guided needle biopsy
• craniotomy and excision or debulking of the tumour
• endoscopic biopsy (minimally invasive technique, allowing direct
visualization of intraventricular tumours)
• electrophysiologically guided resection (performed under local
anaesthetic, this allows sparing of brain tissue involved in critical
functions, thereby minimizing disability following surgery).
Other investigations are guided by initial findings:
• angiography (for surgical planning of spinal tumours)
• lumbar puncture and CSF cytology (medulloblastoma, ependymoma,
germ cell tumour)
•	HIV status (° CNS lymphoma)
• ophthalmology review (° CNS lymphoma)
• assessment of pituitary function (pituitary tumour)
• serum/CSF tumour markers (germ cell tumour)
• molecular genetics, e.g. 1p,19q deletion and O6-methylguanine-DNA
methyl transferase (MGMT) expression, predict increased
chemosensitivity in oligodendrogliomas.
The dominant prognostic factors for brain tumours are a combination of
the histological type and clinical features such as age and performance status. Spread to regional lymph nodes and blood-borne spread to distant sites
are rare in the majority of pathologies. Therefore, staging systems that are
commonly used for other tumour types are rarely used for brain tumours.

Investigations and staging

503

504

Chapter 22

Tumours of the CNS

Treatment of primary central nervous
system tumours
Multidisciplinary management
Patients with CNS tumours suffer from a wide variety of related physical,
cognitive, and emotional problems. Prominent are:
• movement disorders
• tumour-associated epilepsy
• pain (headache)
• speech disorders
• intellectual decline
• personality changes.
These are best managed jointly between ° care and a hospital
neuro-oncology MDT, including a neurosurgeon, neuro-oncologist, neurologist, nurse specialist, and rehabilitation team, whose goals are to maximize
the QoL, as well as to improve survival. Early involvement of the specialist
palliative care team can be valuable in patients with high-grade glioma.

Low-grade glioma (WHO grades I and II)
•	Histological diagnosis is preferred, where possible, as up to 40% of
radiologically diagnosed low-grade gliomas have high-grade features
histopathologically.
• Initial management is usually immediate surgery or watchful waiting.
• Immediate surgery is indicated if there is a large mass and/or extensive
neurological symptoms in patients in whom resection is technically
feasible.
• Watchful waiting may be appropriate for small, minimally symptomatic
tumours:
• low-grade astrocytoma, presenting with epilepsy alone with no mass
effect on imaging, may be managed for years with anticonvulsants,
with only regular review and repeat scanning required
• intervention (surgery or radiotherapy) may be indicated if new
neurological symptoms develop or radiological evidence of mass
effect, tumour growth, or transformation to high-grade tumour.
•	EORTC criteria can help identify patients with poor prognostic features,
who may benefit from early intervention. These are:
• age >40y
• largest tumour diameter >6cm
• tumour crossing the midline
• astrocytoma histology
• presence of neurological deficit.
• Radiotherapy is used for:
• persistent neurological symptoms and significant residual tumour
after surgery
• tumour regrowth after surgery
• evidence of tumour progression to high grade
• symptomatic unresectable tumour.

Treatment of primary central nervous system tumours

• Radiotherapy improves survival, whether it is given initially or for
progressive disease. Early post-operative radiotherapy may, however,
provide an improvement in disease-free survival in patients with good
performance status.
• The role of chemotherapy as first-line treatment is unclear.
• Chemotherapy does have benefit in the treatment of relapsed or
progressive disease post-radiotherapy.

High-grade glioma (WHO grades III and IV)
• Includes GBM, anaplastic astrocytoma, anaplastic olidodendroglioma,
and anaplastic ependymoma.
•	Age and performance status are strong determinants of survival.
• The main aims of treatment are to maximize the patient’s QoL and
improve survival, where possible.
• Role of surgery:
• surgery alone is not curative
• for rapid relief of pressure symptoms (emergency decompression or
shunt insertion for hydrocephalus)
• elective surgery for fit patients for biopsy and tumour debulking
• maximal tumour debulking improves survival and provides tissue for
histology
• re-operation is occasionally appropriate for relapsed disease,
although the indications for this are not firmly established (may
be more appropriate, e.g. for frontal lobe tumours with pressure
symptoms)
• advances in surgery, which include MRI-guided neuro-navigation,
intraoperative MRI, functional MRI, intraoperative mapping, and
fluorescence-guided surgery, have improved the extent and safety of
resection
• patients with diffuse brainstem tumours are not amenable to surgery,
but, if the lesion is local, resection (if possible) is the treatment of
choice, usually via a posterior fossa approach. Surgical morbidity can
be high.
• The mainstay of treatment is radiotherapy:
• radical radiotherapy should be restricted to younger patients
(commonly maximum 60–70y) with good performance status
(WHO 0–1)
• palliative radiotherapy may be appropriate for younger patients of PS
2–3, or older patients of PS 0.
• Concurrent radical radiotherapy and temozolomide chemotherapy,
followed by adjuvant temozolomide chemotherapy, have been shown to
improve the 2y survival to 26%, compared to 10% in those who did not
receive chemotherapy.
• Chemotherapy also of benefit in the treatment of relapsed disease.
• Regardless of age, patients of poor performance status may not benefit
from any treatment and should be offered supportive care.

Ependymoma
•	Arises from ependymal cells lining the ventricular system and the central
canal of the spinal cord to the filum terminale.

505

506

Chapter 22

Tumours of the CNS

• Safe resection of all of the tumour is the optimal ° treatment.
• Residual tumour carries poor prognosis.
•	Low-grade tumours treated by surgery and local radiotherapy.
•	Anaplastic tumours require additional craniospinal irradiation (CSI).

Pineal tumours
•	Hydrocephalus, due to blockage of the third ventricle, is common,
requiring shunt insertion/surgical decompression, prior to surgical
excision, or debulking. At least a biopsy is essential for optimum
management. Stereotactic biopsy or an open microsurgical procedure
requires careful discussion at a multidisciplinary meeting. The former
gives rise to fewer complications, but the latter removes maximal
tumour burden and may improve prognosis.
• Pineocytoma is treated by surgery and radiotherapy. Stereotactic
radiotherapy may be used for low-grade tumours.
• Pineoblastoma requires CSI.

Meningioma
•	Management depends on signs, symptoms, patient fitness, and the size
and site of the tumour.
• Watchful waiting may be appropriate (small incidental tumour in an
asymptomatic patient).
• Surgery is the mainstay of treatment, although complete excision may
be difficult, as some are very vascular and/or may be in inaccessible
areas. Total excision (Simpson grade I) is ideal, but probably unusual in
practice. Total excision for meningiomas involving the cavernous sinus,
petroclival region, posterior aspect of the superior sagittal sinus, and
optic nerve sheath is not possible without major neuropathic morbidity.
Most convexity and spinal meningiomas can be excised, with minimal
morbidity.
• Indications for radiotherapy:
• radical ° treatment
• tumour at inoperable location (cavernous sinus, optic nerve).
• Radical post-operative treatment:
• invasion by the tumour of an adjacent critical structure
• WHO grades II/III tumour
• unresectable recurrence.
• Stereotactic radiotherapy and radiosurgery may be useful in
selected cases.

Germ cell tumours
Germinoma
• The standard treatment is radical radiotherapy.
• The role of chemotherapy is unclear.
• Urgent radiotherapy may be necessary to prevent blindness due to the
predilection of germinomas for the optic chiasm and suprasellar cistern.
Non-germinoma
• Chemotherapy first line.
• Surgery if residual tumour in selected cases.
• Radiotherapy to the ° site.

Treatment of primary central nervous system tumours

Pituitary tumours
Pituitary adenoma
•	Macroprolactinoma:
• dopamine agonist therapy, e.g. bromocriptine first line
• surgery
• post-operative radiotherapy to residual tumour.
•	Microprolactinoma:
• treat only if symptomatic
• dopamine agonist therapy, e.g. bromocriptine first line
• surgery
• post-operative radiotherapy if high preoperative prolactin fails to
normalize post-operatively, or locally invasive tumour.
• Functionless tumour:
• surgery
• post-operative radiotherapy to reduce local recurrence.
•	Acromegaly/gigantism:
• surgery
• post-operative radiotherapy to reduce local recurrence
• bromocriptine if high GH post-operatively, or surgery not possible
• octreotide for refractory GH-secreting adenoma.
Craniopharyngioma
• Surgical resection.
• Post-operative radiotherapy if subtotal resection.
Surgery for pituitary tumours is usually via the trans-sphenoidal route.
Most microadenomas and many macroadenomas can be resected via
the trans-sphenoidal route. Endoscopic trans-sphenoidal approaches are
increasingly used in specialized centres.

Primary central nervous system lymphoma
• Chemotherapy is the mainstay of treatment:
• adjuvant radiotherapy if partial response to chemotherapy
• role of radiotherapy after complete response unclear.
• In AIDS patients, antiretroviral therapy and cranial radiotherapy may
modestly improve an otherwise dismal prognosis.

Acoustic neuroma (vestibular schwannoma)
• Often associated with neurofibromatosis—patients may have other
tumours; therefore, management may be complex.
• Treatment required only if disease progression.
• Treatment options are surgery or radiotherapy.
Surgery
• Should be curative if complete excision with microsurgical techniques.
•	Hearing loss was previously inevitable, but selected patients may
preserve hearing with a partial labyrinthectomy.
•	After failure of ° radiotherapy.
• Surgical risks include:
• CSF leaks
• meningitis

507

508

Chapter 22

Tumours of the CNS

headache
hearing loss
• facial nerve paralysis.
•
•

Radiotherapy
• Single-fraction stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS).
• Fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy (FSRT).

Medulloblastoma
• Is predominantly a tumour of childhood and is very rare in adults.
• Usually occurs in the posterior fossa, presenting with cerebellar
symptoms and raised ICP, and commonly spreads through the
craniospinal axis.
•	Management and prognosis are guided by staging, using modified Chang
criteria, based on the extent of the disease (see Table 22.6):
• standard-risk disease is T1–3a, M0, and no residual disease after
surgery
• high-risk disease is T3b–4, any M+, or post-operative residual
disease.
• Combined-modality treatment, including maximal surgical resection,
tumour bed irradiation and CSI, and chemotherapy, is standard of care:
• standard-risk disease is treated with CSI with boost to the tumour
bed, followed by chemotherapy
• high-risk disease is treated with chemotherapy prior to radiotherapy,
with maintenance chemotherapy if M1–3 disease.
•	As clinical experience in adults is limited, treatment should be patterned
after that in children.
•	Analysis of transcriptional profiles has identified four distinct molecular
variants of differing prognosis—Wnt (wingless), SHH (sonic hedgehog),
and groups C and D—and it is hoped that less toxic treatment will result
in successful management of Wnt and SHH variants, and more targeted
therapy may improve the poorer prognosis of the latter groups.

Spinal cord tumours
Schwannomas and meningiomas
• Usually amenable to complete resection, with high rates of local control.
• Inoperable/recurrent disease treated with radical radiotherapy.
•	High-grade tumours usually treated with post-operative radical
radiotherapy.
Ependymoma
• Gross total resection improves survival.
• Post-operative radiotherapy given if subtotal resection or anaplastic
pathology.
Glioma
• Standard treatment is resection, followed by post-operative
radiotherapy for low- and high-grade tumours.
• No survival benefit for gross total resection over subtotal resection.
•	Higher radiotherapy dose for high-grade tumours.

Treatment of primary central nervous system tumours

Table 22.6 Modified Chang system for staging of medulloblastoma
Extent of tumour

Metastatic spread

T1, <3cm in diameter

M0, no evidence of metastases

T2, >3cm in diameter

M1, microscopic tumour cells in
the CSF

T3a, >3cm in diameter, with extension
into the aqueduct of Sylvius and/or the
foramen of Luschka

M2, macroscopic tumour seeding
in the cerebellar/cerebral
subarachnoid space or in the
third or lateral ventricles

T3b, >3cm in diameter, with extension
into the brainstem

M3, macroscopic tumour seeding
in the spinal subarachnoid space

T4, >3cm in diameter, with extension
above the aqueduct of Sylvius and/or
below the foramen magnum

M4, metastases outside the
cerebrospinal axis

509

510

Chapter 22

Tumours of the CNS

Radiotherapy for primary central
nervous system tumours
Radical radiotherapy
Treatment should be 3D conformal, and the principles of treatment are the
same, regardless of the tumour type.
Patient position
• Depends on the tumour location.
• Supine has the advantage of patient comfort.
• Prone for posterior lesions.
Patient immobilization
• Perspex® or thermoplastic shell immobilization allows accurate
reproducibility, essential for radical treatment planning, given the
close proximity of critical normal structures (e.g. lens, optic chiasma,
brainstem, spinal cord).
Volume localization
• CT planning scan.
• Co-registered with preoperative CT or MRI, if possible.
• GTV defined on each slice, with margin to create CTV, and PTV,
dependent on the tumour type (see Table 22.7), edited to avoid organs
at risk (OARs).
• OARs outlined.
Dose fractionation
(See Table 22.7.)
• Fraction size 1.8–2.0Gy to minimize late radiation damage.
•	Attention to dose tolerances of OARs (see Table 22.8).
• The tumour dose reflects the balance of probability of tumour control
against the risk of late radiation damage.

Palliative radiotherapy
Palliative radiotherapy is appropriate for young glioma patients of PS 2–3
or older patients of PS 0. In these patients, palliative radiotherapy may help
symptom control. However, life expectancy is short, regardless; therefore,
treatment duration and toxicity should be kept to a minimum. Examples
of radiotherapy schedules include 30Gy/six fractions/2wk and 40Gy/15
fractions/3wk.

Craniospinal irradiation
CSI is a complex technique which should only be attempted in radiotherapy
centres with clinicians, physics, and radiographer staff experienced in its
delivery.
• Traditionally, in most centres, patients have been treated in the prone
position, but supine positioning is now increasingly used to improve
patient comfort and stability.
• Immobilization is crucial; a Perspex® or thermoplastic shell for the head/
neck and body immobilization may also be used, e.g. vac-bag and foot
stocks. The CTV is the intracranial and spinal meninges, preferably
outlined on a planning CT scan of the head and spine.

RADIOTHERAPY FOR PRIMARY CNS TUMOURS

• The field arrangement is usually lateral, opposed cranial fields, with
usually two posterior fields in adults carefully matched to the lower
border of the cranial fields.
• To avoid the risk of overdosing or underdosing at the spinal field
junctions, moving junctions are used.
Table 22.7 Details of radiotherapy planning for ° CNS tumours
Tumour type

GTV to CTV margin (GTV
is 1° tumour prior to any
intervention) (cm)

Dose/fractionation
(Gy/fractions)

High-grade

2.5

60/30

Low-grade

1.5

54/30

Medulloblastoma

2.5

55/33 (+ CSI 35/21)

Ependymoma

1.5–2.5

50–54/30–33 (+ CSI
35/21 if anaplastic)

Pineocytoma

0.5

45–50/25

High-grade

1.5–2.5

50–55/30–33

Low-grade

0.0–0.5

50–55/30–33

Germinoma

1.0–2.0

40/24 (+ CSI 25/15)

Adenoma

0.5

45/25

Craniopharyngioma

0.5

50/30

1° CNS lymphoma

2.5

45/25

Glioma

Meningioma

Pituitary

NB CTV to PTV margin, using a Perspex® or thermoplastic head shell, is usually 70.5cm.

Table 22.8 Normal CNS tissue tolerance doses
Structure

Tolerance dose (Gy, 2Gy/fraction)

Brain parenchyma

54–60

Brainstem

48

Optic nerves and chiasm

50–55

Pituitary gland/hypothalamus

40–60

Middle/inner ear

60

Lacrimal gland

20

Lens

6–10

Retina

50

511

512

Chapter 22

Tumours of the CNS

Stereotactic radiotherapy
SRS is a highly specialized technique available in a limited number of cancer
centres. It focuses high doses of radiation to a tumour in a single fraction,
sparing normal tissues by limiting its use to small tumours and treating with
minimal margins around the GTV. This technique is most widely used for
acoustic neuroma.
FSRT is planned in a similar way to radical radiotherapy. The difference is
that high-precision immobilization in a relocatable stereotactic frame means
that no CTV to PTV margin is required. The margin to PTV with stereotactic immobilization should be in the region of 0.2–0.3mm. This allows sparing
of nearby critical normal structures. This technique is most commonly used
for the treatment of acoustic neuroma, treating to a dose of 50–54Gy/30
fractions. It has also been used in the management of skull base meningioma
and solitary intracranial metastases.
The advantage of these techniques for the treatment of acoustic neuroma is hearing preservation, compared to surgery. FSRT has slightly better
reported hearing preservation rates, compared to SRS, of 85% and 75%,
respectively.

Central nervous system radiotherapy side effects
The common side effects of CNS radiotherapy are shown in Table 22.9.
Table 22.9 Side effects of brain and spinal irradiation
Radiotherapy site

Acute toxicity

Late toxicity

Brain

Alopecia

Pituitary hypofunction

Skin reaction

Optic chiasm damage

Fatigue

Risk of second malignancies
(brain)

Nausea and vomiting

Neurocognitive impairment
Memory loss

Spine

Sore throat

Risk of second malignancy
(chest/abdomen/pelvis)

Nausea and vomiting

Ovarian failure

Diarrhoea

Spinal cord damage

Myelosuppression

CHEMOTHERAPY FOR PRIMARY CNS TUMOURS

Chemotherapy for primary central
nervous system tumours
Most CNS tumours are traditionally considered poor targets for
chemotherapy:
• many, e.g. gliomas, demonstrate intrinsic chemoresistance to most
conventional cytotoxics
• the blood–brain barrier normally provides an obstacle to drugs, except
lipophilic agents
• however, the blood–brain barrier is disrupted in many ° CNS tumours
(as demonstrated by contrast uptake on axial imaging), allowing the
penetration of chemotherapy.
The current indications for chemotherapy in ° CNS tumours include:
• in selected fit patients with GBM, concomitant radical radiotherapy
and oral temozolomide chemotherapy (75mg/m2 daily), followed by
six cycles of post-radiation therapy oral temozolomide (200mg/m2 for
5 days of a 28-day cycle)
• for relapsed glioma (low-grade and high-grade), examples of
chemotherapy regimes are:
2
• oral temozolomide (200mg/m for 5 days of a 28-day cycle until
tumour progression)
• PCV (1-(20-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosurea (lomustine),
110mg/m2 PO on day 1 every 6wk, procarbazine 60mg/m2 PO on
days 8–21, vincristine 1.4mg/m2 (max 2mg) IV on days 8 and 22)
• single-agent lomustine 200–240mg PO on day 1, 6-weekly
• intraoperative carmustine implants are licensed for the treatment of
patients with newly diagnosed high-grade glioma, in whom >90% of the
tumour has been resected
• anaplastic oligodendrogliomas benefit from adjuvant PCV chemotherapy,
with particular improvement in the survival of patients with 1p/19q
co-deletion
• the agents used in the management of medulloblastoma include
cisplatin, vincristine, and cyclophosphamide
• the agents used in the management of non-germinoma are bleomycin,
etoposide, and cisplatin.

513

514

Chapter 22

Tumours of the CNS

Prognosis for primary central nervous
system tumours
The prognosis varies widely, depending on the tumour type (see Table
22.10). The OS of patients with high-grade glioma remains fairly dismal.
However, some tumours, e.g. pituitary adenomas, may not affect the
long-term survival at all. Overall, the 5y survival of malignant brain tumours
is 717%.
Table 22.10 Prognosis of ° CNS tumours
Tumour type

Prognosis

High-grade glioma
Anaplastic astrocytoma

Surgery only: MS 1y
Surgery + RT: MS 3y

Glioblastoma

Surgery only: MS 3mo
Surgery + RT: MS 10mo
Surgery + chemoRT: MS 14.6mo

Low-grade glioma

MS >5y

Medulloblastoma
Standard-risk disease

5YS 70%

High-risk disease

5YS 20–50%

Ependymoma
Low-grade

5YS 30–50%

High-grade

5YS 0%

Pineocytoma

5YS 85%

Meningioma
Grade I

RR 7–20%

Grade II

RR 29–40%

Grade III

RR 50–78%

Germ cell tumours
Geminoma

5YS >90%

Non-germinoma

5YS 60%

Pituitary tumours
Adenoma

5YS >95%

Craniopharyngioma

10YS 85%

1° CNS lymphoma

5YS 30%

Acoustic neuroma

SRS: 5YLCR 92%
FSRT: 5YLCR 98%

chemoRT, chemo-radiotherapy; MS, median survival; RR, recurrence rate; RT, radiotherapy;
5YLCR, 5y local control rate; 5YS, 5y survival; 10YS, 10y survival.

Prognosis for primary central nervous system tumours

Predictors of outcome for patients with glioma include:
• the tumour grade:
• the most important predictor
• low-grade gliomas have a relatively good prognosis
• the results of treatment of high-grade gliomas remain poor
• the extent of surgical excision
• the age (worse survival >50y)
• the performance status at presentation
• the presence of fits confers better prognosis
• a low score correlates with poor prognosis
• mini-mental score (see Table 22.11).
Table 22.11 Mini-mental test
Maximum
score

Patient’s
score

Questions

5

What is the time and date (time, day, date,
month, year)?

5

Where are we now (ward, hospital, town,
county, country)?

3

Examiner names three unrelated objects and
asks the patient to repeat these

5

Subtract serial 7s from 100, or spell ‘WORLD’
backwards

3

Ask the patient to recall the same three objects

2

Ask the patient to name two simple objects, e.g.
watch and pen

1

Ask the patient to repeat ‘no ifs, ands, or buts’

3

Give the patient a piece of paper, and ask him/
her to take the paper in their right hand, fold it in
half, and put it on the floor

1

Give the patient written instruction, and ask
them to follow them, e.g. ‘close your eyes’

1

Ask the patient to make up and write one
sentence

1

Ask the patient to copy a diagram of intersecting
pentagons

30

Total

A score of 10–20 shows moderate impairment, and 0–10 severe impairment.

515

516

Chapter 22

Tumours of the CNS

Recent advances and future treatments
for primary central nervous system
tumours
• Surgical neuronavigation:
• recently acquired images of the patient’s brain are projected
intraoperatively on to the operating field
• facilitates accurate laser or ultrasound resection of the tumour.
• Radiotherapy—improved accuracy, and dose escalation is feasible
with stereotactic localization, although results so far disappointing in
high-grade glioma. IMRT can undoubtedly facilitate the dose escalation
and sparing of normal tissues but has yet to prove any survival benefit.
• Novel therapies under evaluation include:
• TKIs
• farnesyl transferase inhibitors
•	EGFR inhibitors
• VEGF inhibitors and other anti-angiogenesis inhibitors.
• Gene therapy:
• much attention has focused on the HSV-tk/aciclovir suicide
gene system
• other therapeutic strategies are possible, but the lack of effective
vectors currently limits the applicability of this approach
• using adenovirus or herpes simplex virus (HSV) might overcome the
limitations inherent in the current retroviral approaches.

RECENT ADVANCES AND FUTURE TREATMENTS

517

518

Chapter 22

Tumours of the CNS

Brain metastases
Epidemiology
Metastases to the brain from an extracranial ° are common—at least ten
times more common than ° CNS tumours:
• symptomatic metastases have an incidence of around 6 per 100 000
• autopsy studies have revealed an overall occurrence in 24% of patients
with known cancer
• found in 40% of patients with systemic cancer at post-mortem
• slight ♂ preponderance, and the incidence increases with age.
The incidence of brain metastases is rising, in part due to improvements
in, and the availability of, brain imaging, but also due to better control of
extracerebral malignancy as a result of improved local and systemic therapy:
• breast cancer, especially lung metastases and/or HER2-positive
(trastuzumab does not cross the blood–brain barrier)
• colorectal cancer—prolonged survival with advanced disease through
effective systemic treatment
• NSCLC—improved loco-regional therapy and axial imaging.
Whilst brain metastases may arise from any ° site, the commonest
are from:
• lung cancer (50%)
• breast cancer (15%)
• melanoma (10%)
• renal cancer
• GI cancer
• unknown ° (10%).
Some cancers that commonly metastasize to other organs rarely involve
the brain, e.g. prostate, bladder, cervix, and ovary. The reason for this is
not clear. Rare tumours that have a predilection for the brain include choriocarcinoma and malignant germ cell tumours with trophoblast elements.
Carcinomatous meningitis is less common but may occur in:
• lung cancer
• breast cancer
• leukaemia and lymphoma.

Pathology
The histology reflects the original ° tumour. Vascular proliferation and
tumour necrosis are common features. There is often a demarcation from
the adjacent brain:
• 30% single
• 80% cerebral hemispheres, 15% posterior fossa, 5% brainstem
• different tumours have a predilection for metastases to different areas
of the brain:
• pelvic and GI tumours more commonly metastasize to the
posterior fossa
• SCLC equally distributed in all areas of the brain.
• commonly, considerable cerebral oedema adds to the mass effect of
metastases.

Brain metastases

Presentation
The presentation of brain metastases is similar to that of ° brain tumours:
• headache
• focal neurological deficit, e.g. loss of power, dysphasia, visual field defect
• confusion or personality change
• seizures—focal or generalized
• ataxia
• with the additional features of systemic malignancy, if other organs
involved.

Investigations
Imaging is most commonly with contrast-enhanced CT of the brain because
of its availability. However, the most sensitive investigation is high-resolution
contrast-enhanced MR scan:
• metastases most frequently appear as multiple, discrete,
well-demarcated lesions
• hypointense on T1
• hyperintense on T2
• marked gadolinium enhancement
• often considerable associated vasogenic oedema
• up to 20% of lesions revealed on MRI are not seen on CT.
In patients who present with brain metastases, with no previous diagnosis
of cancer, a detailed history and examination can identify the ° in 730%.
Subsequent investigations may include CXR, CT of the chest/abdomen/
pelvis, PET-CT, and biopsy; 60% will have a ° lung cancer or concomitant
pulmonary metastases. Other frequent unknown ° cancers include melanoma, breast, and colorectal, with the ° unidentified in 25–30%.

Management
Management includes:
• symptom control
• specific treatment directed against the brain metastases
• systemic treatment.
Appropriate management is guided by an assessment of the prognosis.
Several studies have assessed the prognostic features in patients with brain
metastases (see Table 22.12). Patients of intermediate prognosis fall into
the favourable- or poor-prognosis group, depending on the likelihood of
controlling systemic disease. For the third group, appropriate management
comprises steroids and symptom control.
Symptom control
Control of symptoms similar to ° brain tumours:
• dexamethasone in the majority of patients
• frequently produces a reversal of symptoms and neurological deficit
• starting dose of 8–16mg daily, along with PPI gastroprotection.
• improvement can often be maintained with doses of 2–4mg.
Treatment directed against brain metastases
For patients with multiple brain metastases, with favourable prognostic characteristics at presentation, or patients improved following

519

520

Chapter 22

Tumours of the CNS

dexamethasone, treatment with palliative radiotherapy can be offered, with
the following aims:
• temporary tumour control
• modest improvement in the survival time
• reduction in the steroid dose without deterioration in symptoms (reducing
problems of candidiasis, proximal myopathy, and cushingoid appearance).
Typically, the whole brain is irradiated. A dose of 20Gy in five fractions has been
shown to be as effective as any of the more protracted fractionation schemes.
For patients presenting with solitary or a small number of brain metastases:
• defined as metastatic disease within the brain, in the absence of
demonstrable malignancy elsewhere in the body
• biopsy may be required, especially when there is no history of
previous cancer
• In patients with favourable prognostic features:
• surgical excision should be considered
• post-operative whole-brain radiotherapy is given (20Gy in five
fractions or 30Gy in ten fractions), with or without a local boost
• an alternative to surgery is SRS (20Gy in a single fraction), with
consideration given to subsequent whole-brain irradiation.
Systemic treatment
Whilst many cytotoxics do not cross the blood–brain barrier, this barrier
is disrupted in many patients with CNS metastases. Chemotherapy may be
useful in chemosensitive tumours:
• germ cell tumours
• SCLC
• breast cancer.
Targeted therapies under investigation
•	Lapatinib.
• Bevacizumab.

Outcome
Overall, the prognosis is poor for patients with brain metastases from
the common cancers. For patients with poor prognostic features, the
median survival is 6–8wk, irrespective of treatment. Patients with
‘favourable-prognosis’ solitary metastases that are treated with surgery and
radiotherapy have a median survival of 710mo.
Table 22.12 Predicting prognosis in brain metastasis
Prognosis

Characteristics

1, favourable

KPS >70
Age <65y
Controlled °
No extracranial metastases

2, intermediate

KPS >70
With 1+ of: age >65y; uncontrolled °; extracranial metastases

3, poor

KPS <70

KPS, Karnofsky performance status score.

Further reading

Further reading
Akay KA, Izci Y, Baysefer A (2004). Surgical outcomes of cerebellar tumours in children. Pediatr
Neurosurg 40, 220–5.
Bhagavathi S, Wilson J (2008). Primary central nervous system lymphoma. Arch Pathol Lab Med 132,
1830–4.
Bruce JN, Ogden AT (2004). Surgical strategies for treating patients with pineal region tumours.
J Neurooncol 69, 221–36.
Davies E, Hopkins A (eds.) (1997). Improving care for patients with malignant glioma. London: Royal
College of Physicians.
Henry RG, Berman JI, Nagarajan SS, Mukherjee P, Berger MS (2004). Subcortical pathways serving
cortical language sites: initial experience with diffusion tensor imaging fiber tracking combined with
intraoperative language mapping. Neuroimage 21, 616–22.
Recinos PF, Sciubba DM, Jallo GI (2007). Brainstem tumors: where are we today? Pediatric Neurosurg
43, 192–201.
Wen PY, Kesari SL (2008). Malignant gliomas in adults. N Engl J Med 359, 492–507.
Whittle IR, Smith C, Navoo P, Collie E (2004). Meningiomas. Lancet 363, 1535–43.

521

Chapter 23

Skin cancers
Introduction 524
Malignant melanoma 526
Management of malignant melanoma 532
Management of metastatic disease 536
Intra-ocular melanoma 540
Mucosal melanoma 541
Non-melanoma skin cancer 542
Merkel cell carcinoma 547
Further reading 548

523

524

Chapter 23

Skin cancers

Introduction
• Skin cancers constitute the commonest group of cancers in the UK
(20% of all cancer registrations).
•	The incidence of new cases registered annually in the UK is felt to
under-represent the true incidence, due to differing practices for
registering cases (NICE).
•	The management of this group of cancers may be coordinated in the
community, at the local hospital, or in a specialist centre, depending on
the diagnosis and stage. However, it is recommended that any health
professional involved in the treatment of any type of skin cancer should
be a member of the appropriate MDT.

Introduction

525

526

Chapter 23

Skin cancers

Malignant melanoma
° cutaneous malignant melanoma arises from the melanocytes found in the
basal layer of the skin, which produce melanin pigment and are responsible
for the tanning response after UV radiation exposure.

Epidemiology and aetiology
• Incidence rates in the UK are rising faster than for any other of the
current ten commonest cancers:
• fifth commonest cancer in the UK, with around 12 800 new cases
diagnosed annually (Office for National Statistics, June 2012)
• more women than men are diagnosed with melanoma in the UK,
although death from melanoma is commoner in men
• the incidence increases with age
• the lifetime risk of developing melanoma in the UK is currently
estimated at around 1:60 (CRUK Statistical Information Team,
2011) but is probably as low as 1:1200 amongst those with
pigmented skin
• the increased incidence may be due to:
— greater public awareness and increased surveillance
— earlier detection
— changes in diagnostic criteria
— increased sun exposure (holidays abroad commoner)
— rates in Australia are the highest in the world and continue to
double each decade.
• Sunlight:
• main environmental cause of melanoma
• excess exposure to UV radiation (especially UV-B), a history of
severe sunburn, or intense intermittent UV exposure, particularly in
childhood/adolescence, are strongly associated with subsequent risk
of developing melanoma
• the majority of melanomas develop within sun-exposed areas
• artificial exposure to UV-A radiation (especially sunbeds, but also
psoralen UV-A (PUVA) therapy) has contributed to the increased
incidence of melanoma over recent years.
• Genetic risk:
• 710% of cases will have a strong family history of melanoma. Certain
syndromes associated with a markedly elevated risk of developing
malignant melanoma have been characterized, e.g. familial atypical
multiple mole and melanoma (FAMM) syndrome, dysplastic naevus
syndrome
• a melanoma susceptibility gene CDKN2A on chromosome 9p21.3 has
been identified as a tumour suppressor gene (mutated in FAMM)
• it is likely that multiple genes will eventually be implicated in the
development of melanoma
• germline mutations are implicated in up to 40% of patients with
familial melanoma and may have a role in sporadic cases.
• Benign pigmented naevi (see Fig. 23.1 and Fig. 23.2):
• some may be precursor lesions to malignant disease
• more frequently these are markers of a more general increased risk
within the individual.

Malignant melanoma

• Immunosuppression:
• e.g. following organ transplantation
• appears to be associated with an increased risk of developing
melanoma
• conversely, there is currently no evidence that melanoma is more
prevalent in the HIV-positive population.

Fig. 23.1 Benign pigmented lesion (see also colour plate section).

Fig. 23.2 Benign naevus close-up (see also colour plate section).

527

528

Chapter 23

Skin cancers

Screening and prevention
• Strenuous efforts must be made to minimize the occurrence of
melanoma and to maximize the chances of early diagnosis, whilst
curative treatment remains possible.
•	The priority for screening must be to identify those patients most
at risk.
•	A past history of melanoma is a strong risk factor for a subsequent
° cutaneous melanoma. Up to 10% of patients will develop a second
melanoma within 5y. Previous non-melanoma skin cancer is also a risk
factor.
• Screening may be an appropriate option for patients deemed at
particular risk of the disease, e.g. those with a strong family history of
melanoma or with a personal history of any skin cancer or of blistering
sunburn in early life.
• Serial photographs can be useful in patients with a high mole burden, as
can inspection via a magnifying dermatoscope.
•	Exposure to sunlight has been identified as the major modifiable risk
factor. This has led to public health drives to promote sun avoidance,
including:
• the successful Australian ‘Slip (on a shirt), Slap (on a hat), Slop (on
sunscreen)’ campaign
• the promotion of artificial tanning products as an acceptable
cosmetic alternative to UV exposure
• the introduction of sun hats as part of the uniform in some schools.

Malignant melanoma: clinical presentation
Typically present with (see Box 23.1):
• an alteration in a pre-existing pigmented mole on the skin
• a new pigmented lesion—this is particularly relevant if aged ≥40y, when
the acquisition of new moles is uncommon
• irregular brown/black pigmentation of a lesion
• irregular border or new asymmetry of a lesion
• ± oozing, crusting, itching, or bleeding
• differential diagnosis:
• benign melanocytic naevi
• seborrhoeic keratoses (older ages).
Less commonly:
• palpable regional lymphadenopathy
• metastatic disease to the viscera (the ° lesion may not be identified).

Box 23.1 Warning signs of melanoma: ABCDE
• Asymmetry—one half different to the other.
• Borders—uneven, blurred, or scalloped.
• Colour—variety in the shade or colour.
• Diameter—usually, but not exclusively, >6mm.
• Evolving—any change, sudden or continuous.

Malignant melanoma

Investigations
• Full clinical examination, including skin, regional and distant lymph node
assessment, palpation of the abdomen, and neurological examination, if
indicated.
•	A correctly performed biopsy is a critical step:
• excision biopsy required for any pigmented lesion of concern
(see Fig. 23.3 and Fig. 23.4 for examples of cutaneous malignant
melanoma)
• complete excision, with normal skin margins, is optimal
• this should provide sufficient information to confirm the diagnosis and
provide valuable information to assist with staging (thickness, ulceration,
mitotic rate), necessary further investigations, and likely prognosis
• incision biopsies are only acceptable for large lesions in cosmetically
sensitive areas (e.g. face)
• punch and shave biopsies should not be done, as they do not permit
complete histological staging.
• CXR and serum biochemistry, including LDH, once the diagnosis of
melanoma has been confirmed.
•	Restrict further imaging, e.g. CT of the chest/abdomen, to those
patients with confirmed regional metastatic disease or clinical
symptoms/signs suggestive of dissemination. This is because of the high
false positive rate, following speculative imaging.

Fig. 23.3 Malignant melanoma close-up (see also colour plate section).

529

530

Chapter 23

Skin cancers

Fig. 23.4 Malignant melanoma close-up (see also colour plate section).

Pathology
• Confirms neoplastic melanocytic cells invading beneath the basement
membrane into the underlying dermis.
•	Histological subtype, e.g. superficial spreading melanoma, nodular or
acral lentiginous melanoma.
• Margins—whether involved or the width of normal tissue surrounding
the melanoma. Identifies microsatellites of melanoma.
• Important to identify the histopathological features with prognostic
implications:
• the tumour (Breslow) thickness, measured from the epidermal
granular layer to the base of the tumour at its thickest point, is the
most important prognostic factor—increasing thickness correlates
with a poorer prognosis. A thickness of >4.0mm is defined as T4
• the mitotic rate is the second most important prognostic
factor—increasing mitotic rate correlates with a poorer prognosis
• the presence or absence of ulceration. Ulcerated ° tumours have a
worse prognosis than non-ulcerated tumours of the same thickness.

Malignant melanoma

Staging
The AJCC Staging 2010 has produced a revised validated staging system,
based on the tumour thickness, mitotic rate, presence of ulceration, and
identification of metastases, to provide guidance for management decisions
and likely prognosis (see M https://cancerstaging.org to download the
TNM staging).

531

532

Chapter 23

Skin cancers

Management of malignant melanoma
Surgical management
Surgery at the primary site
•	The treatment for ° malignant melanoma is complete excision of the
lesion.
•	The recommended margin of excision of normal skin varies, according
to the thickness of the tumour:
• in situ disease only—0.5cm
• <2mm thick—at least 1cm
• ≥2mm, but <4mm, thick—at least 2cm
• ≥4mm—3cm margin recommended, although superiority of this
over a more conservative excision not yet proven.
•	Excision must be adequate in depth as well as laterally.
• Unusual sites of disease, e.g. foot sole, nail bed, require tailored surgical
techniques.
• Most patients with ° melanoma have the defect closed directly. A small
number may require either a flap or graft to achieve closure.
Surgery for the regional lymph nodes
•	One in five patients who are clinically node-negative will have metastatic
deposits.
• False positive nodal assessment is probably equally as common.
• Regional lymph node dissection in patients with clinical evidence of lymph
node involvement:
• therapeutic lymphadenectomy of palpable or histologically proven
metastatic lymph nodes may be curative, e.g. 10y DFS of 725% for all
node-positive patients treated surgically
• lymph node dissection also minimizes the risk of local ulceration or
fungation
• complications, following surgery, are common and include infection
and seroma formation in the short term, and lymphoedema in the
longer term.
• Elective lymph node dissection in patients without definite evidence of
regional nodal involvement:
• more complex
• has not been shown to improve survival in patients with tumours that
are <1mm or ≥4mm thick. There is some suggestion of a survival
benefit in younger patients with tumours of intermediate depth
• the main benefit of establishing the status of regional lymph nodes
is for accurate staging, provided this will not affect the options for
subsequent adjuvant therapy.
• SLNB:
• using either a blue dye or a radiolabelled tracer
• identifies patients with definite lymph node metastasis who can then
proceed to formal regional nodal dissection. If the sentinel node is
negative for a tumour deposit, then formal nodal dissection is not
performed, avoiding the associated morbidity
• a staging investigation, rather than a therapeutic intervention

Management of malignant melanoma

early studies have suggested that the sentinel node can be identified
in up to 90% of cases, and the false negative rate may be as low as
2%. In 30–50% of patients, the sentinel node is the only positive
node identified
• the risk of detecting malignant deposits in the sentinel node increases
with the ° tumour thickness (see Table 23.1). The results of several
large-scale trials that should help clarify whether this approach
compromises long-term survival are awaited
• in the UK, the use is limited to centres with established expertise,
ideally within the context of a clinical trial, of which a number are
ongoing.
•

Table 23.1 Risk of identifying a metastatic deposit in a sentinel lymph
node, according to the ° tumour thickness
Risk of metastatic deposit in sentinel node (%)
Breslow depth <0.75mm

1

≥0.75 Breslow depth <1.5mm

8

≥1.50 Breslow depth <4.0mm

23

Breslow depth ≥4.0mm

36

Prognosis and risk of relapse
• Most patients present with stages I–IIA disease, when appropriate
surgery is curative in the majority of cases, e.g. for stage IB, 90% cured
by surgery, falling to 78% for those with stage IIA disease.
•	Relapse rates, following resection, escalate rapidly with advancing stage:
• stage IIB disease—risk of recurrence of 40% following local excision
• stage III disease (which includes regional node involvement) —
associated with relapse rates of >80%.
•	The median survival with stage IV disease is typically <9mo, and with
leptomeningeal involvement 5–16wk.
Post-operative surveillance
• In the UK, the current standard management, following resection of a
° melanoma ± regional lymph node dissection, is a surveillance regime,
often shared between:
• the patient
• their GP
• a plastic surgeon and/or dermatologist
• an oncologist.

533

534

Chapter 23

Skin cancers

Adjuvant therapy
•	Adjuvant regimes aim to minimize the risk of relapse, particularly in
patients at higher risk of recurrence (stages 2B–3).
• In the UK, there is no standard adjuvant treatment.
High-dose interferon alfa-2b
•	High-dose IV interferon alfa-2b (HDI) is the most encouraging adjuvant
regime.
•	Typically involves 4wk of daily IV HDI (e.g. 20MIU/m2), followed by a
lower dose s/c for a further 1–4y.
• Several large trials of HDI have produced conflicting results, with
comparison between trials extremely problematic. Interpretation of
pooled data has been complicated by the marked variation in the dosing
and scheduling of interferon alfa-2b.
•	There is a consensus that HDI affects the natural history of the disease
in some way. All trials of HDI in intermediate- and high-risk patients
have demonstrated that treatment with HDI is associated with modest
improvements in relapse-free survival. Results from several cooperative
group studies suggest that the risk of recurrence may be reduced by up
to 38%.
•	Any effect on the OS is more controversial. Individual trials have
consistently failed to demonstrate any survival benefit with HDI.
However, a recent meta-analysis of 14 RCTs, including >4000 patients,
demonstrated that, in patients with particularly high-risk melanoma, the
use of interferon alfa-2b is associated with an improvement in both DFS
and OS.
• It is likely that there is a subset of patients at greatest risk of disease
relapse (e.g. those with ulcerated primaries) who particularly benefit
from HDI.
• Its mechanism of action is unknown, although suggestions include:
• immune modulation
• direct cytotoxic action (at high doses)
• an anti-angiogenic role.
• Side effects include flu-like symptoms, myelosuppression, fatigue,
hepatotoxicity, and depression ± mania.
•	Lack of clarity over an optimal regime and which patients are most likely
to benefit have prevented its acceptance as standard adjuvant therapy in
the UK (not approved by NICE).
Bevacizumab
• mAb which binds to VEGF, inhibiting the growth of new blood vessels.
•	Results of large multicentre randomized phase III adjuvant trial
(AVAST-M) awaited (closed to recruitment in 2012). Interim analysis
(median follow-up of 25mo) suggests no improvement in OS, but
possibly a very small improvement in DFS.
•	Risks include hypertension, bleeding, GI perforation, and delayed wound
healing.

Management of malignant melanoma

Vaccines
•	There is no randomized phase III trial to support the use of any vaccine
as adjuvant treatment, following the resection of high-risk melanoma.
• Strategies have included attempts to enhance cellular immunity or
induce humoral immunity.
•	Tumour heterogeneity, tumour-reinforced tolerance, and poor
immunogenicity of relevant antigens have all probably contributed to
disappointing results.

Loco-regionally advanced disease
• Includes:
• recurrence at the site of the resected ° disease
• in-transit and satellite metastases
• regional lymph node metastases.
• If there is no evidence of disseminated disease, further resection
of solitary (or a very small number of ) distant metastases can be
considered. This approach can sometimes produce long-term survivors.
•	Alternative approaches for the local control of unresectable disease
include hyperthermic isolated limb perfusion ± melphalan infusion and
occasionally radiotherapy.

535

536

Chapter 23

Skin cancers

Management of metastatic disease
• No curative treatment for patients with stage IV disease.
•	The aim of treatment is to palliate symptoms and maximize the QoL.
•	The prognosis remains extremely poor. Despite recent advances,
survival with disseminated disease generally continues to be measured in
months.

Molecularly targeted therapy
•	The aim is to target specific genetic mutations within the tumour.
•	The MAP kinase pathway is summarized in Fig. 23.5 and includes several
targets for therapy. Treatment choice is dependent on the mutation
status of the melanoma.
•	All patients with advanced melanoma should have their tumour assayed
for the presence of a mutation at the V600 site of the BRAF gene.
Identifying mutations in other driver genes (e.g. KIT, NRAS) may facilitate
entry into clinical trials.
BRAF inhibition
• 40–60% of advanced melanomas have an activating mutation in the
BRAF gene (see Fig. 23.5)—usually V600E. Targeted inhibition of the
mutant BRAF is associated with tumour response.
• Vemurafenib:
• potent inhibitor of mutant BRAF
• response rate of >50%
• associated with longer PFS (6.9mo versus only 1.6mo on dacarbazine
chemotherapy (see E Chemotherapy, p. 538) and improved OS
• has activity in brain metastases
• cutaneous side effects are problematic. Rashes, photosensitivity,
and pruritus are common, and there is 710% incidence of
keratoacanthomas and SCCs. Other toxicities include QTc
prolongation, arthralgia, and fatigue
• tumour resistance inevitably develops, usually within 6mo
• Dabrafenib:
• an alternative inhibitor of mutant BRAF, also shown to have
significant activity in metastatic melanoma, including cerebral
metastases.
MEK inhibition
• Combining the inhibition of mutant BRAF with MEK inhibition
(see Fig. 23.5), e.g. dabrafenib with trametinib aims to:
• increase the duration of the disease response (by suppressing
pathways of acquired resistance)
• reduce the incidence of 2° skin cancers caused by the inhibition of
BRAF alone.
•	There is evidence that this approach is effective, producing a longer PFS,
higher objective response rate, and longer OS with significantly less
skin toxicity.
• Currently remains only in the context of clinical trials in the UK but a
NICE appraisal is due in 2015.

Management of metastatic disease

GPCR

RTK
PLC

G-Protein

PI3K

Akkα

PKC
NF-κB

PKA

IκB
STAT3,5

JAKs

Ras

FAK
Src

Raf

Adenylate
cyclase
MEKK

APC

MAPK

MKK

β-catenin
TCF

ERK JNKs β-catenin:TCF
Fos Jun

CREB

CycID p16 GIi

Rb CDK4

Caspase 9
Gene regulation

Apoptosis

ARF
mdm2

BcI-2

Bad
Abnormality
Bim
FasR sensor

Mt

Bax

p53

Cell
proliferation

E2F

SMO

Cytochrome C

FADD

GSK-3β

MEK

Myc: Mad:
Max Max

BcI-xL

Caspase 8

Dishevelled

Patched

Cytokine receptor

Akt

Integrins
Frizzled

RTK cdc42
Grb2/SOS Fyn/Shc

p15

CycIE p27
CDK2
p21
Smads

Fig. 23.5 The RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK signalling pathway: an important target in the
treatment of metastatic melanoma (see Fig. 40.1).

KIT inhibition
• Mutations in c-kit are present in up to 20% of patients with mucosal
melanoma (see E Mucosal melanoma, p. 541).
•	There is optimism that tumours which express an activating c-kit mutation
may respond to targeted inhibitors of KIT such as imatinib and sorafenib
(see E Small molecule inhibitors of tyrosine kinases, p. 183).
Anti-angiogenesis
• Melanoma cells typically overexpress multiple blood vessel
(angiogenesis)-promoting factors, e.g. fibroblast growth factor, VEGF.
This overexpression appears to be associated with a poorer prognosis.
•	Targeting these growth factors offers a further potential avenue for
treatment.
• Bevacizumab:
• mAb which binds to VEGF
• stops VEGF from stimulating the growth of new blood vessels
• encouraging phase II data in metastatic melanoma (used in
combination with chemotherapy), suggesting a trend for
improvement in PFS and OS, particularly in patients with the greatest
metastatic burden
• current use remains restricted to clinical trials.

Immunotherapy
Ipilimumab
• mAb that targets the cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen
4 (CTLA-4), a molecule on T-cells which suppresses the immune
response.

537

538

Chapter 23

Skin cancers

•	Acts as an immune stimulant (inhibiting immune inhibition), augmenting
T-cell-mediated anti-tumour effects.
•	Associated with a significant increase in median survival (3–4mo) when
used first- or second-line.
• In patients who respond, the response may be durable, e.g. 2–5y
survival rates of 20–30%.
•	The response may take months to occur, and the disease may initially
worsen—therefore, most appropriate in minimally symptomatic patients
with low disease burden.
•	Has activity against cerebral metastases.
• Side effects include colitis, rash, pituitary dysfunction (which may be
permanent), and potentially life-threatening colitis.
• NICE-approved for the treatment of patients with advanced melanoma.
Anti-PD-1/anti-PDL-1 antibodies
•	The programmed death-1 (PD-1) receptor is an immune checkpoint
expressed by many cancer cells.
•	Antibodies targeting PD-1 and its ligand (PD-L1), e.g. nivolumab,
pembrolizumab, are the focus of many current melanoma trials.
• Data to suggest response rates in metastatic melanoma of 30–50%,
including a proportion of patients with durable responses of >3y.
•	The side effect profile appears favourable, compared to ipilimumab.
• Further clinical trials under way to assess whether combination with
ipilimumab augments the response.
•	The use remains restricted to the context of clinical trials.
High-dose interleukin-2
•	Response rates of up to 20%, with occasional reports of long-term DFS,
reported. Trials mainly non-randomized.
•	Treatment limited by significant toxicities, including multiorgan toxicity,
arrhythmias, hypotension, and capillary leak syndrome.
• In light of recent advances (e.g. ipilimumab), its role is likely to diminish
further.
Interferon alfa
•	Response rates of 10–20% reported. The median duration of response
is only 4mo, although occasionally durable responses can be seen.
• Self-administered s/c, typically three times/wk.
•	Treatment usually well tolerated.
• Most appropriate for those with small-volume, non-visceral disease.
• Combination with dacarbazine or temozolomide has demonstrated no
increase in survival.
• Diminishing role, with the advent of evidence-based alternatives (e.g.
bevacizumab, ipilimumab).

Chemotherapy
Dacarbazine (DTIC)
•	Randomized data demonstrating an associated survival advantage are
still lacking.

Management of metastatic disease

•	Response rates of 7–20% documented in the literature, with a median
duration of response of 4–6mo.
•	Treatment is generally well tolerated.
Temozolomide
•	Oral analogue of DTIC.
•	Phase III data to support its equivalent activity (compared to DTIC) in
metastatic melanoma.
•	Potential advantage of greater CNS penetration (crosses the
blood–brain barrier).
•	Ongoing trials to establish the optimal regime and whether the use of
other therapies, e.g. ipilimumab, novel enzyme inhibitors, may improve
the efficacy.
Combination regimes
•	Phase III data to support the equivalent activity of combination regimes
(e.g. cisplatin, vinblastine, and DTIC) in metastatic melanoma remain
lacking, and toxicity is significantly greater.
• In clinical trials, no combination regime has been shown to produce a
survival benefit.

Surgery
•	Procedures to debulk the tumour and optimize the local control are
occasionally appropriate.

Radiotherapy
• Melanoma, in general, is not responsive to radiotherapy.
• Skeletal metastases—can achieve good palliation in the case of pain.
• Cerebral metastases—relatively common in long-term survivors from
melanoma. If asymptomatic, there is controversy as to whether or
not they should be treated. If symptomatic, corticosteroids should be
commenced, and cranial irradiation can be considered.

539

540

Chapter 23

Skin cancers

Intra-ocular melanoma
•	A rare malignancy affecting the uveal tract, most frequently involving the
choroid.
•	Risk factors appear to include:
• UV exposure
• light iris colour
• previous personal or family history of melanoma.
•	Presentation is often an incidental finding at a routine visit to the optician
in an asymptomatic individual. Alternatively, patients may present with
visual loss.
• Investigation—biopsies should not be performed. Diagnosis should be
made by an ophthalmologist with experience in this field.
• 80% of ocular melanoma contains a mutation in GNAQ or GNA11.
• Management is ideally carried out in a combined ophthalmic–oncology
clinic at a designated centre. Options include:
• observation
• brachytherapy with radioactive eye plaques (e.g. ruthenium-106 or
iodine-125)
• charged particle irradiation
• enucleation.
• 780% of ocular melanomas carry a mutation in either GNAQ or GNA11,
resulting in the activation of the MAP kinase pathway. This is the
basis for several current clinical trials, e.g. that of the MEK inhibitor
selumetinib.
•	Prognosis is generally poor, with death from metastatic disease in >50%
of affected patients. Dissemination is purely haematogenous, with
hepatic involvement in 90% of those with metastatic disease.

Mucosal melanoma

Mucosal melanoma
•	Rare, primarily affects the head and neck, vulvovaginal, and anorectal
regions.
•	Aggressive surgical management offers the best chance of long-term
survival.
• Differences to cutaneous melanoma:
• typically affects older patients (median age of 70y)
• ♀>♂
• worse prognosis
• more often multifocal and more frequently amelanotic
• complete excision often problematic due to the location and pattern
of growth
• the majority develop metastatic disease
• tumours have a lower incidence of activating mutations in BRAF, but
one in four have a somatic mutation or an amplification of KIT
• small numbers of patients mean little available controlled data on
systemic therapy in metastatic disease. However, there are case
reports of patients with KIT mutant melanoma responding to
targeted inhibitors of KIT, e.g. imatinib, sorafenib (see Chapter 9).

541

542

Chapter 23

Skin cancers

Non-melanoma skin cancer
Primary non-melanoma skin cancers
Common
• BCC (see Fig. 23.6), i.e. keratinocyte skin cancers.
• SCC (see Fig. 23.7).
Uncommon
•	There are several uncommon skin cancers, e.g:
• Merkel cell carcinoma
• Kaposi’s sarcoma (KS) (see Chapter 28)
• cutaneous angiosarcoma—beyond the scope of this chapter.

Secondary malignancies
• Malignant skin lesions may represent metastases, e.g.:
• breast cancer
• lung cancer
•	ENT malignancies
• colon cancer
• ovarian cancer
• renal cancer.
• Usually, a late phenomenon. Rarely, a presenting feature.

Epidemiology and aetiology
• BCCs are the commonest malignancy in Europe, Australia, and the US.
The incidence continues to increase worldwide. SCCs are the second
commonest skin cancer.
•	Occur particularly in fair-skinned Caucasians.
•	Almost 100 000 cases recorded in the UK per year (2010 figures,
compiled in 2012, and likely a significant underestimate of the true
incidence).
•	The cause of very few deaths.
•	Risk factors for development include:
• UV radiation—sunlight remains the principal environmental cause
of keratinocyte skin cancers. The use of tanning devices is also a
risk factor
• previous non-melanoma skin cancer
• ionizing radiation
• chronic inflammation
•	HPV
• immunosuppression, e.g. post-organ transplant
• hereditary conditions, e.g. 0.5% of BCCs occur in patients with the
autosomal dominant basal cell naevus syndrome (Gorlin’s).

Non-melanoma skin cancer

Fig. 23.6 BCC (see also colour plate section).

Fig. 23.7 SCC (see also colour plate section).

543

544

Chapter 23

Skin cancers

Presentation
Squamous cell carcinomas (SCC)
•	Represent 720% of non-melanoma skin cancers.
•	Arise on sun-exposed sites or at sites of chronic inflammation.
•	Rapidly growing, red papule, or non-healing skin lesion.
• ± background of actinic keratosis.
• Ulceration and bleeding may occur.
• 5–10% metastasize, initially to regional lymph nodes.
•	Risk factors for metastasis include:
• recurrent disease
• large size
• tumour thickness
• deep invasion
• rapid rate of growth
• disease associated with chronic scars, sinus tracts, and certain
anatomical sites, e.g. the lip
• host immunosuppression.
•	Loco-regionally, metastatic disease is associated with a 5y survival of
≤65%. Disseminated disease has a very poor prognosis.
Basal cell carcinomas (BCC)
•	Represent 775% of non-melanoma skin cancers.
•	Lesions arising on sun-exposed areas, e.g. the face, ears, scalp.
• Normally confined to hair-bearing skin.
• Slow-growing, pink or pearly (translucent) papule, often with
telangiectasia.
•	Typically indolent, although can be locally invasive, causing significant
disfigurement.
• Metastases are rare (0.1%), although 50% of tumours >5cm are
associated with metastases.

Management
Basal cell carcinomas
• Usually curable (≥90% for ° disease). Certain factors predict a higher
risk of local recurrence, including:
• a sclerosing, micronodular, or mixed growth pattern
• perineural invasion
• baso-squamous differentiation.
• Despite their low metastatic potential, early definitive treatment is
important, as local invasion can be associated with significant morbidity.
• Several effective techniques exist for the effective management of BCC.
Careful assessment of both the patient and tumour is required to select
the most appropriate intervention.
• Surgical excision:
• allows the assessment of histological features and the adequacy of
resection margin.
• NICE guidelines (updated 2010) specify that low-risk BCCs may
be managed in ° care, provided the GP or other health care
professional has been accredited to do so. If the patient or tumour
does not fulfil certain criteria (e.g. >25y old, immunocompetent,

Non-melanoma skin cancer

tumour <1cm, location below the clavicle), then referral to the local
skin MDT is mandatory.
• Mohs’ micrographic surgery:
• specialized surgical technique
• micrographic surgery, in which the tumour is excised at an oblique
angle in a series of stages and examined microscopically
• the oblique angle of surgery maximizes the examination of the
peripheral margin
• further excision continues, until all margins are negative
• guidelines drawn up by British Association of Dermatologists (last
updated 2008) advocate this technique, in particular if:
— the tumour is >2cm
— the tumour margins are difficult to define deep invasion
— the tumour is recurrent
— the tumour is located centrally on the face, or
— the tumour is near the eyes, lips, nose, or ears
— perineural or perivascular involvement is suspected
• in the UK, the requirement for specialist training and equipment
means there is currently limited availability of this technique.
• Cryotherapy or electrosurgery:
• used for the treatment of low- and intermediate-risk lesions
• 5y recurrence rate for ° BCCs of 78–13%.
•	Radiotherapy:
• appropriate for both ° and recurrent disease, particularly in elderly
patients
• usually avoided in patients aged <50y, due to long-term risk of 2°
cutaneous malignancies within the radiation field
• 5y cure rates of >90% for previously untreated lesions
• especially useful around the eyelids, nose, and lips, when the
cosmetic result is likely to be superior to surgical techniques
• contraindicated in patients with hereditary basal cell naevus
syndrome.
•	Photodynamic therapy:
• uses light and a topical photosensitizing agent to produce tumour
destruction, with response rates of 82–100% reported
• advantages—good cosmetic results, well tolerated
• disadvantages—lengthy treatment, long-term recurrence rates
unknown.
• Chemotherapy:
• may achieve cure rates of >90% in selected patients with low-risk
BCCs, e.g. with topical fluorouracil.
•	Ongoing surveillance:
• 80% of recurrences will occur within the first 5y
• 740% of patients will develop a new ° BCC within the same period
• a previous diagnosis of a ° skin cancer is a risk factor for further
cutaneous malignancy.

545

546

Chapter 23

Skin cancers

Squamous cell carcinomas
•	RCTs comparing treatment modalities in SCC are lacking.
• Surgical excision:
• the commonest treatment for cutaneous SCC
• allows the histological assessment of the adequacy of the margin of
excision
• resection of the ° ± loco-regional lymph node dissection of any
clinically evident lymph node metastases (spread to local lymph
nodes is the commonest route for the development of metastases)
• a 5y cure rate of >90% is reported for the excision of localized °
disease
• a potential role for SLNB awaits further study
• Mohs’ micrographic surgery can be considered for tumours at
difficult sites (see previous section).
• Cryotherapy (e.g. using pressurized liquid nitrogen) or electrosurgery:
• can be used for in situ disease or small, low-risk lesions
• the disadvantage of these techniques is they prevent the
confirmation of clear margins.
•	Radiotherapy:
• most useful for small, well-localized lesions
• the reported 5y cure rate is 790%
• can also be used as adjuvant treatment, following incomplete surgical
excision or in patients with nodal involvement.
• Chemotherapy:
• has been used for disseminated disease, e.g. with cisplatin.
• Cetuximab:
• mAb against EGFR
• SCC has been shown to overexpress EGFR
• phase II trial data and case reports suggest cetuximab, combined with
radiotherapy, may be superior to radiotherapy alone
• potential future therapeutic option for recurrent or advanced SCC;
randomized trials needed
• see also Chapter 9 and Chapter 21.
•	Ongoing surveillance:
• 95% of relapses will occur within 5y
• 750% of patients will also develop a new non-melanoma skin cancer,
also within 5y.

Prevention and future directions
•	Any patient with a non-melanoma skin cancer should be advised about
the importance of sun avoidance to minimize future risk.
• New research on non-invasive treatments for BCCs and SCCs is
ongoing and includes trials of cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors and
biological response-modifying agents. Results are awaited.

Merkel cell carcinoma

Merkel cell carcinoma
•	Rare malignant skin tumours, most commonly arising in the head and
neck area or on the limbs.
•	Propensity for local recurrence and regional and distant spread.
•	Pathologically, these tumours have neuroendocrine features.
• Clinical presentation is typically with a red or purple nodule, with a shiny
overlying epithelium.
• Staging requires, at a minimum, a CXR and an assessment of regional
lymph nodes, commonly by CT or MRI scan.
• SLNB may have a role in this tumour.
•	At presentation:
• 40% localized
• 50% regional spread
• <10% metastatic disease.
•	The optimum management of these tumours remains controversial.
•	Although they are sensitive to both radiotherapy and chemotherapy, the
role of the adjuvant treatment of localized disease is uncertain.
•	Patients with operable disease are best managed by surgery, but
adjuvant radiotherapy and chemotherapy (e.g. platinum and etoposide)
may be considered for patients with regional spread.
•	Treatment outcome is dependent on the stage at presentation:
• localized node-negative disease—>90% 5y survival
• positive lymph nodes—50–60% 5y survival
• metastatic disease—9mo median survival.

547

548

Chapter 23

Skin cancers

Further reading
Ascierto PA, Gogas HJ, Grob JJ, et al. (2013). Adjuvant interferon alfa in malignant melanoma: an
interdisciplinary and multinational expert review. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol 85, 149–61.
Evans MS, Madhunapantula SV, Robertson GP, Drabick JJ (2013). Current and future trials of targeted
therapies in cutaneous melanoma. Adv Exp Med Biol 779, 223–55.
Maio M, Di Giacomo AM, Robert C, Eggermont AM (2013). Update on the role of ipilimumab in
melanoma and first data on new combination therapies. Curr Opin Oncol 25,166–72.
Mihajlovic M, Vlajkovic S, Jovanovic P, Stefanovic V (2012). Primary mucosal melanoma; a comprehensive review. Int J Clin Exp Pathol 5, 739–53.
Motley RJ, Preston PW, Lawrence CM; British Association of Dermatologists (2009). Multiprofessional
guidelines for the management of the patient with primary cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma.
Available at: M http://www.bad.org.uk/library-media/documents/SCC_2009.pdf.
Soong SJ, Ding S, Coit DG, Balch CM, Gershenwald J, Thompson JF; American Joint Committee on
Cancer, Melanoma Task Force. Individualized melanoma patient outcome prediction tools. Available
at: M http://www.melanomaprognosis.org.
Telfer NR, Colver GB, Morton CA; British Association of Dermatologists (2008). Guidelines for the
management of basal cell carcinoma. Br J Dermatol 159, 35–48.

Chapter 24

Haematological
malignancies
Acute leukaemia 550
Chronic myeloid leukaemia 558
Myelodysplastic syndromes 562
Chronic lymphoid leukaemias 566
Hodgkin’s lymphoma 574
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas 582
Myeloma 594
Further reading 601

549

550

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Acute leukaemia
Epidemiology
The incidence of acute leukaemia is 4–7 cases per 100 000. The peak incidence of ALL is 2–4y, and that of AML is over 60y.

Aetiology
The cause of most cases is unknown. Some congenital and inherited diseases carry an increased risk:
• Down’s syndrome
• Fanconi’s anaemia
• Bloom syndrome
• Klinefelter’s syndrome
• neurofibromatosis
• ataxia–telangiectasia.
There is a 3–5 times increased risk in identical twins.
Environmental factors implicated in leukaemogenesis include ionizing
radiation, including in utero exposure for childhood ALL, chemical carcinogens, especially benzene and including cigarette smoking (2-fold increase),
chemotherapeutic drugs, and infectious agents (e.g. T-cell leukaemia virus
1 in the Caribbean or Japan, causing adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma). It
seems that, in at least some cases of childhood ALL, a genetic predisposition is acquired in utero in markers of the leukaemic clone, e.g. a single
copy of the t(12;21) translocation producing the TEL-AML1 fusion gene or
a clonal IgH gene rearrangement are identifiable on testing Guthrie card
blood spots or umbilical blood samples. Subsequent additional genetic
mutations, e.g. deletion of the second TEL gene occurring after birth, perhaps following exposure of naive immune systems to infections, then lead
to childhood ALL.

Pathology
Acute leukaemias arise from the malignant transformation of haemopoietic
stem/early progenitor cells, so-called ‘leukaemia stem cells’. The leukaemic
progeny proliferate but fail to differentiate properly, leading to the accumulation of poorly differentiated leukaemic blast cells in the marrow and bone
marrow failure.

Clinical presentation
Acute leukaemia presents with features of bone marrow failure:
• anaemia
• thrombocytopenic bleeding
• infections, mainly bacterial or fungal.
There may also be features of extramedullary leukaemic infiltration, more
commonly in ALL or monocytic forms of AML:
• hepatosplenomegaly
• lymphadenopathy
• leukaemic meningitis
• testicular infiltration
• skin nodules.

Acute leukaemia

Table 24.1 WHO classification of acute leukaemias
WHO classification of ALL
B-lymphoblastic leukaemia/lymphoma, not otherwise specified
B-lymphoblastic leukaemia/lymphoma with recurrent genetic abnormalities
T-lymphoblastic leukaemia/lymphoma
WHO classification of AML
AML with recurrent genetic abnormalities
AML with myelodysplasia-related changes
Therapy-related AML
AML not otherwise specified
Myeloid sarcoma
Myeloid proliferations related to Down’s syndrome
Acute leukaemia of ambiguous lineage
Reproduced with kind permission of the World Health Organization (WHO). M http://www.
who.int.

Patients with acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) can present with excessive bleeding as a result of ° fibrinolysis and disseminated intravascular
coagulation (DIC).

Diagnosis and classification
Peripheral blood pancytopenia is the commonest finding, but some cases
have an elevated WCC.
A marrow examination, using morphology, immunophenotyping, cytogenetics, and increasingly molecular genetics, is the basis of diagnosis. This
will allow the classification into myeloid or lymphoid leukaemia and give
important prognostic information. Acute leukaemia is diagnosed when the
bone marrow blast count is >20% of nucleated cells. The present WHO
classification of acute leukaemia is shown in Table 24.1. CNS infiltration can
be a feature of ALL and requires a diagnostic lumbar puncture.

Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia
ALL is the commonest cancer in children (23% of cancer diagnoses in children under 15y), with modern treatment producing a leukaemia-free survival at 5y of 780%. Most of these will be cured. Adult disease responds less
well, with only 30–50% of long-term survivors. This relates to an excess
of poor prognostic features in adults, with some 30% having one or more
of these:
• high WCC
• older age
• poor genetics such as t(9;22), t(4;11), or t(1;19)
• delayed disease clearance (>4wk) with induction chemotherapy.
Management
It is important that children and adults with ALL are treated in expert centres. Increasingly, it is recognized that adolescents benefit from treatment in
an environment that deals with patients of the same age and provides the
type of support needed by teenagers. Recently, it has been accepted that

551

552

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

patients up to the age of early 20s have better outcomes when treated on
childhood protocols.
Children with ALL are now treated according to risk groups, and increasingly this approach is being trialled in adults. Traditional clinical and laboratory features of prognostic significance in children include the following:
• age at diagnosis—infants aged <1y poor prognosis; children aged 1–9y
do better than children aged 10–18y
• WCC at diagnosis—<50 × 109/L better prognosis than higher WCC
• the presence or absence of CNS disease at presentation
• gender—girls have a slightly better prognosis than boys
• hypodiploidy (<45 chromosomes) of ALL cells on karyotyping carries a
poorer prognosis than normal numbers or hyperdiploidy
• specific acquired genetic abnormalities, including the Philadelphia
chromosome t(9; 22) and rearrangement of the MLL (mixed lineage
leukaemia) gene on chromosome 11q23, carry a worse prognosis. MLL
rearrangements are common in infantile ALL
• response to treatment—children who clear their bone marrow of
blasts within 7–14 days of induction have a better prognosis than those
who do not. Early clearance of blasts in the blood with steroids is also
favourable
• it is now recognized that the level of minimal residual disease (MRD)
by molecular or flow cytometric technology post-induction is the most
sensitive and specific prognostic risk factor in children and young adults,
with negative MRD being favourable and independent of traditional risk
factors
• the recent first publication from the UKALL 2003 trial has confirmed the
good prognosis of negative MRD. It has shown that, in such patients,
subsequent treatment intensity can be reduced from two intensification
blocks of chemotherapy to one.
Chemotherapy
Patients with B-ALL (Burkitt’s leukaemia) are generally treated as Burkitt’s
lymphoma (BL) with short intensive courses of chemotherapy (see
E Burkitt’s lymphoma, p. 589).
Philadelphia-positive cases are treated on experimental protocols, based
around stem cell transplantation and imatinib or similar TKIs. All others
are treated on ALL protocols, adapted to the risk group of the patient.
Treatment is in three stages: induction of remission, intensification (consolidation), and maintenance.
Induction of remission
This is routinely achieved by combining vincristine, steroids (dexamethasone
is better than prednisolone), and L-asparaginase (pegylated is preferred to
non-pegylated). Additional anthracycline is used in adults and poor-risk children. Remission rates are 90–95% in children and a little less in adults.
Intensification
This is a crucial phase during which exposure to new drugs (e.g. cyclophosphamide, cytarabine) is a key strategy, as is clearance of the CNS as a sanctuary site. This may be achieved by CNS irradiation or MTX intrathecally or
by intermediate- or high-dose IV.

Acute leukaemia

Intensification can be safely reduced from two blocks to one in children
and young adults with negative MRD after the induction phase.
In high-risk cases, there remains a 10% risk of CNS relapse, and there
are concerns about the long-term effects of different treatment modalities.
Maintenance
For about 2y, patients in remission continue on a cyclical schedule of MTX,
mercaptopurine, vincristine, steroids, and intrathecal prophylaxis, if cranial
irradiation has not been given.
Management of high-risk disease
Various approaches are in use for high-risk disease. Intensification in consolidation with cyclophosphamide or MTX in higher dosage has brought
some success, and allogeneic stem cell transplantation has been vigorously
pursued for its graft versus leukaemia (GVL) effect in reducing relapse risk.
Data in adults from the MRC UKALL XII, HOVON study group, and others have helped clarify the role of transplantation. Using a biological randomization and intention-to-treat analysis, based on whether a patient has a
sibling donor or not, there is clearly a 5y DFS advantage (760% versus 740%)
for having a donor, the majority of whom receive an allogeneic stem cell
transplant in first remission. For those without a donor, UKALL XII demonstrated that standard maintenance therapy was better than receiving an
autologous transplant.
When treatment fails, the outcome depends on the age and length of
first remission. In children with long remissions, further chemotherapy may
achieve salvage; for others, allogeneic stem cell transplantation is indicated,
including from matched unrelated donors.
Philadelphia chromosome-positive ALL carries a very poor prognosis
when treated with chemotherapy alone. Recent results, with the addition
of the BCR-ABL inhibitor imatinib and planned allogeneic stem cell transplantation from a matched donor of any source, have been encouraging, with
remission rates of >90% and 3y DFS approaching 50%.

Acute myeloid leukaemia
At diagnosis with AML, the patient’s age, performance status, and whether
or not the subtype is APL determine the initial clinical approach.
• APL must be identified at diagnosis to ensure that all-trans retinoic acid
(ATRA) is included promptly in the treatment schedule.
• It is now usual that patients under 60y who are relatively fit are offered
intensive treatment with curative intent that may include allogeneic stem
cell transplantation.
• Older patients constitute the majority and often are not considered
suitable for intensive treatment. The outcome for this age group has not
improved during the last 20y, and therapy is centred on palliation with
blood product-based supportive care and trials of novel therapeutic
agents.
• A major contributor to better survival over the last 30y has been
improved supportive care. This includes appropriate use of blood
product support, including platelets, and the successful management of
neutropenic sepsis with antibiotics and an increasing range of effective
antifungal drugs.

553

554

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Chemotherapy
Anthracycline and cytarabine, given over 7–10 days, have been the backbone of treatment for 30y. The addition of a third drug (thioguanine or
etoposide) is widely used, but there is little evidence that one or the other
is superior. Recent data from UK and French trial groups have shown that
the addition of targeted chemotherapy, in the form of anti-CD33-bound
calicheomycin (gemtuzumab ozogamicin, GO), to daunorubicin and cytarabine leads to better survival for good- and possibly standard-risk patients,
but not poorer-risk patients. The dose of anthracycline in induction may
also influence survival.
Successful induction is defined as achieving first remission (normal blood
counts and bone marrow blasts <5%) and depends on patient age (90% in
children, 75% in 50–60y, 65% in 60–70y); 70–80% of all patients achieve
complete remission (CR) with the first course. Between two and four further intensive courses incorporating other drugs (e.g. amsacrine, etoposide,
idarubicin, mitoxantrone, and cytarabine at higher doses) are usually given.
It is not, at present, clear how many courses of consolidation are optimal.
Older patients seldom tolerate >2, and there seems little benefit for >4
courses of intensive chemotherapy in total in younger patients.
Non-intensive treatments
The standard therapy for older and frailer patients has been low-dose s/c
cytarabine. This produces a remission rate of 720% and is superior to oral
hydroxycarbamide. For patients with low blast count AML (21–30%), the
hypomethylating agent azacytidine has been shown to produce longer survival than other conventional approaches, including low-dose ara-C.
Present approaches for the majority of elderly/frail patients not suitable
for intensive chemotherapy include supportive care and randomizing novel
agents, such as FLT3 inhibitors, against low-dose cytarabine. The ‘pick a
winner’ approach identifies such agents with promising clinical efficacy in
phase II studies and carries them promptly on to phase III, whilst discarding ineffective therapies. To date, with the exception of azacytidine for
low blast count AML, no novel agent has been shown to be preferable to
low-dose cytarabine.
A number of characteristics can identify different risks of relapse, and
therefore survival. Most powerful of these are cytogenetics (favourable,
intermediate, poor), patient age (young better than elderly), and the initial
response of marrow blasts to treatment (remission with the first course or
not). Other factors associated with a poor prognosis include:
• high WCC on presentation
• molecular markers such as FLT3 internal tandem duplication (FLT3
ITD)—present in 30% of cases and predictive of relapse
• less cellular differentiation—undifferentiated leukaemia
• leukaemia 2° to prior chemotherapy (t-AML)
• leukaemia 2° to myelodysplasia (s-AML)
• the length of first remission—<6–12mo very poor.
Favourable cytogenetics are t(8:21), t(15:17), and inv(16), which comprise
about 25% of patients aged <60y. Examples of poor-risk cytogenetics
include abnormalities of chromosomes 5 or 7, del(3q), monosomal karyotypes (>1 monosomy or one monosomy and a structural abnormality), or

Acute leukaemia

complex (multiple) abnormalities that tend to be more frequent in older
patients and are associated with t-AML and s-AML. Intermediate-risk
cytogenetics include a normal karyotype and abnormalities not defined by
the other risk groups. The identification of molecular abnormalities within
the normal cytogenetic group is helping improve predictions of treatment
outcomes in this difficult group, e.g. FLT3 ITD+ poor risk, nucleophosmin
(NPM1) mutation+ without FLT3 ITD good risk, CEPBA mutation+ good
risk. Recent data suggest that MRD, as measured by the presence of a
residual leukaemic specific phenotype after remission induction, may be a
powerful prognostic feature, as in ALL.
Stem cell transplantation
Allogeneic stem cell transplantation reduces the relapse risk in AML
through the GVL effect. This benefit is offset by the toxicity of the transplant procedure, and hence an OS advantage has been difficult to demonstrate. However, recent analyses of the large MRC dataset, using a more
sophisticated measure of risk than just cytogenetics and response, clearly
show a survival benefit (33% versus 18%) for those defined as poor risk,
even though only 30% of eligible patients received a transplant. No clear
benefit has been shown in donor versus no donor analyses in standard-/
intermediate-risk patients, however defined, although younger patients
actually receiving a transplant probably do have a survival advantage, and
many centres adopt this strategy for younger standard-risk patients with
a suitable donor. There is no benefit for good-risk patients transplanted
in first remission. Overall, if the patient is relatively young (<60y) and has
a human leucocyte-associated antigen (HLA)-matched donor, allogeneic
transplantation of blood or bone marrow stem cells will be considered in
poor- and standard-risk patients in first remission and in all patients beyond
first remission. The development of less toxic reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) regimens, based on immunosuppression without myeloablation,
improve the risk–benefit analysis and allow transplantation of older, frailer
patients. Maturing results with RIC allografts in AML appear to be as good
as those achieved with myeloablative regimens in younger patients. Data
from AML 15 demonstrate a clear 5y survival benefit in the 40–60y age
group for matched sibling RIC allografts (61%) over no transplant (41%) or
transplant with a matched unrelated donor (35%). At present, therefore,
patients aged <40y will generally be offered a conventional myeloablative
allograft, whilst older patients will be offered RIC allograft, especially if they
have a suitable sibling donor.
Acute promyelocytic leukaemia
This is a separate entity having a FAB-M3 morphology (malignant promyelocytes) and the t(15:17) rearrangement, creating the PML-RARA fusion gene.
ATRA used alone can induce remission by differentiation without hypoplasia but is not curative. Additional chemotherapy (APL is very sensitive
to anthracyclines) or increasingly arsenic trioxide (ATO), given along with
ATRA, remains essential to eliminate the leukaemic clone. ATRA reduces
the risk of early death through haemorrhage. However, there is still a significant early haemorrhagic death rate of between 5% and 20%, before
patients receive effective therapy, and this remains an important area to
be addressed.

555

556

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

The WCC at diagnosis is of key importance. Low count patients (<10
× 109/L) given ATRA and anthracycline will have >90% survival. The 25%
of patients who present with higher WCC have a high risk of early death
or relapse, and only 60% survival. Italian and Spanish groups have developed less toxic regimens, based on ATRA and idarubicin induction and consolidation, followed with ATRA-based maintenance chemotherapy. In the
NCRN AML 15 randomized comparison of this lower intensity approach
with four cycles of traditional intensive AML therapy and ATRA, the remission and survival rates are as good with less toxicity and better compliance.
However, the role of maintenance has not been proven. Patients with a
higher WCC may benefit from the addition of cytarabine.
The PML-RARA fusion transcript is detectable by sensitive RT-PCR and
allows the monitoring of molecular MRD. It is now clear that achieving
molecular negativity is associated with prolonged survival, whereas persistent or relapsed positivity in the bone marrow invariably predicts for
a haematological relapse. Therefore, patients in remission are monitored
for molecular relapse and offered treatment, before full haematological
relapse, with the differentiating agent ATO, followed, where appropriate,
by transplantation. Indeed, very recent randomized data from the GIMEMA
group suggest that low-risk patients can be treated at presentation with
a non-chemotherapy regimen of ATRA and ATO, with careful molecular
monitoring, and have excellent outcomes which are at least non-inferior
to treatment with standard chemotherapy and produces a 2y survival of
>95%, Similarly, the Australian APML 4 trial has suggested ATRA plus ATO
with limited idarubicin in induction only, followed by maintenance, produces outstanding 2y survival of >90%. Therefore, for low-risk APL, minimal chemotherapy or chemotherapy-free regimens are likely to become
standard of care.
Treatment outcome in acute myeloid leukaemia
Remission is achieved in 80% of patients under 60y, and 60–65% of
patients over 60y. Survival is age-related and will depend on the prognostic factors outlined earlier. At present, some 50% of patients under 60y
will be long-term survivors, whilst only 10–15% of older patients survive
beyond 3y. Therefore, most patients will relapse. If first remission is short
(<6–12mo) and cytogenetics are not favourable, the outlook is grave.
Future prospects
AML is a heterogeneous disease, and the increasing characterization of
biological and clinical features associated with disease outcome will allow
better risk-directed therapy. There will be ongoing refinements in the techniques of stem cell transplantation, allowing the harnessing of GVL, independently of graft-versus-host disease. The disease in the elderly remains
a major challenge. Standard chemotherapy approaches have not improved
the outcome in this age group, and the 5y survival is of the order of 10%. It
must be established which elderly patients, if any, benefit from an intensive
approach. Improved more targeted, non-intensive treatment is needed for
the majority, and, to this end, the ‘pick a winner’ approach discussed may
allow the timely identification of efficacious novel agents.

Acute leukaemia

557

558

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Chronic myeloid leukaemia
Epidemiology
CML can occur in either sex and in any age group. The disease most commonly presents between the ages of 40 and 60y. There is an association
with exposure to ionizing radiation, e.g. atomic bomb survivors.

Pathology
CML is a malignancy arising from a mutated haemopoietic pluripotential
stem cell. In CML, a clone of cells replaces the normal bone marrow, with
enhanced proliferative capacity, but, unlike in acute leukaemia, the cells
retain their ability to differentiate during the chronic phase of the disease. In
97.5% of cases, there is a reciprocal translocation between chromosomes
9 and 22, which, in most cases, can be recognized in standard karyotypes
as a Philadelphia chromosome (small chromosome 22). This t(9;22) results
in a new fusion gene called BCR-ABL1. The protein product of this gene
behaves as an abnormal TK and is the cause of the leukaemia. Knowledge
of its pathogenesis has been utilized to develop highly effective targeted
therapeutic agents for CML.
The disease runs a chronic phase for a number of years. Eventually, the
leukaemia loses its ability to differentiate normally and enters ‘blast crisis’,
resembling an acute leukaemia of myeloid or, less frequently, of lymphoid
origin, which is fatal. Modern therapy has been hugely successful in preventing or delaying this transformation and prolonging survival.

Clinical features
In the chronic phase, the presenting symptoms are anaemia, weight loss,
and splenomegaly. Patients can develop gout.
Rarely, altered consciousness, blurred vision, and cardiorespiratory failure can occur from hyperviscosity with a very high WCC.

Investigations
• FBC.
• Blood film.
• Bone marrow.
• Cytogenetics.
• Molecular genetics.
Leucocytosis is a uniform feature, and the WCC can be in excess of 300 ×
109/L. A normochromic anaemia is usually present, whilst platelets are commonly increased (sometimes over 1000 × 109/L). The blood film resembles
a bone marrow aspirate, with all stages of myeloid differentiation present.
The bone marrow is hypercellular, with predominant granulocytopoiesis.
In blast crisis, increased numbers of blast cells become evident in blood
and bone marrow. Correspondingly, anaemia and thrombocytopenia are
more marked. 795% of patients have the Philadelphia chromosome on routine G-banding, and a further 2.5% will have an occult t(9;22) translocation,
identified by a positive PCR for the BCR-ABL1 transcript. 72.5% are negative
for the t(9;22) translocation (by G-banding and PCR) and are termed atypical CML, BCR-ABL1-negative.

Chronic myeloid leukaemia

Management
Chronic phase
Initial treatment may involve leukapheresis, if the WCC is very high and
there are signs and symptoms of hyperviscosity. If there is no ready access
to TKIs, hydroxycarbamide is used to reduce the WCC. Patients with high
WCC and hyperviscosity should not be transfused red cells, until this is
corrected.
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors
One of the licensed TKIs, imatinib or the second-line agents nilotinib and
dasatinib are now considered standard initial therapy in all adult patients.
These drugs variably bind to the adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-binding site
of BCR-ABL1 and inhibit the function of the TK protein. Complete haematological responses are achieved in 95% of patients. At a median follow-up
of 7y, the IRIS randomized study of imatinib versus IFN-α with cytarabine
demonstrated complete cytogenetic responses of 69% by 12mo, and 87%
by 60mo, for imatinib. The OS of patients who received imatinib as initial
therapy was 86%. However, 30% of patients were no longer taking imatinib
for a variety of reasons, including resistance, intolerance, and withdrawal
of consent. Complete cytogenetic response and a maximum molecular
response (3-log reduction in BCR-ABL1 transcripts) were associated with a
100% freedom from progression at 60mo, although most patients still have
detectable BCR-ABL1 transcripts. Interestingly, the rate of progression on
imatinib falls off year by year beyond 3y.
Recently, two randomized trials have shown that the more potent
second-generation TKIs nilotinib and dasatinib, when compared with
imatinib, lead to faster responses, a higher proportion of complete cytogenetic and molecular responses, and lower rates of transformation to blast
crisis. As such, these agents are likely to steadily replace imatinib as first-line
therapy. TK inhibition of BCR-ABL1 is a landmark targeted therapy that has
revolutionized the outlook for this disease, with median survival times now
beyond 10y. Some patients become BCR-ABL1-negative, and the limited
data have suggested that about half of these will not progress if they stop
TKI therapy. The term ‘operational cure’ has been suggested for long-term
non-progressors on imatinib with residual small detectable quantities of
BCR-ABL1. Only time will tell if this is the case.
However, as discussed, one-third of patients stop taking imatinib over
the longer term. The European LeukemiaNet has defined criteria for
imatinib failure or suboptimal response at various time points on therapy.
Prospectively, these criteria predict for poor outcome. The options for such
patients are higher doses of imatinib, switching to the second-generation
TKI alternatives nilotinib, dasatinib, and bosutinib, or allogeneic stem cell
transplantation.
One particular BCR-ABL1 mutant T315I, which prevents drug docking,
has proved resistant to all currently licensed TKIs, including newer agents
such as bosutinib. However, very recently, the TKI ponatinib was shown to
produce complete haematological responses in 12 patients with this mutation, including nine complete cytogenetic responses. If confirmed, this will
be a major development in tackling resistant disease.

559

560

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Allogeneic stem cell transplantation
Allogeneic stem cell/bone marrow transplantation offers the potential of
cure for CML. The precise role of allogeneic transplantation, following the
introduction of TKI therapy, has been controversial. However, it is predominantly now seen as a second-line therapy for appropriate patients defined
as failing TKI therapy. It might be considered in children or adolescents as
first line, if an appropriate donor is available. The best results are achieved
in young (<30y), fit patients with a suitable fully matched donor. The
transplant-related mortality (TRM) ranges from 15% to 40%. The relapse
rates are usually <20%. Cured patients have no detectable BCR-ABL1 by
PCR, which is the benchmark for alternative therapies.
Second-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors—nilotinib and dasatinib
Nilotinib is a more potent inhibitor of BCR-ABL1, and dasatinib is more
potent and inhibits a wider spectrum of kinases, including src. Both are
now used for patients who are defined as imatinib failures and, as stated,
increasingly as first line. Responses in imatinib-resistant patients are at least
as good as using higher doses of imatinib (600mg or 800mg), except for the
kinase domain mutation T315I that is resistant to both second-line TKIs and
high-dose imatinib but may respond to ponatinib (see E Tyrosine kinase
inhibitors, p. 559). Dasatinib produces complete cytogenetic responses in
40% of imatinib-resistant patients and 70% of imatinib-intolerant patients,
with a PFS of 90% at a median follow-up of 15mo.
Accelerated phase and blast phase
Patients who progress from chronic phase still fare poorly. Imatinib, often
used at the higher doses, and second-generation TKIs produce responses in
advanced disease, but the benefits are relatively short-lived. Combination
chemotherapy may return the patient to the chronic phase, especially from
lymphoid blast crisis. Allogeneic or autologous transplantation may prolong
the second chronic phase.

Chronic myeloid leukaemia

561

562

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Myelodysplastic syndromes
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a group of neoplastic disorders of
the bone marrow, characterized by dysplastic haemopoiesis and peripheral
blood cytopenias. As part of the family of myeloid neoplasms, there is a
tendency for the disease to progress to AML.

Epidemiology
The incidence of MDS is about 4 per 100 000 per year, with a peak incidence of >30 per 100 000 in the over 80s. The median age is in excess of
70y. Risk factors for developing MDS include exposure to previous chemotherapy, especially alkylating agents, radiation, and benzene.

Pathology
The hallmarks of these diseases are hypercellular bone marrow with dysplastic cell morphology and paradoxical peripheral blood cytopenias. The
paradox may result from the apoptosis of dysplastic bone marrow progenitor cells, in turn leading to an ineffective production of differentiated
cells for release into the blood, especially in early stages of the disease.
The disease subtypes are classified according to the WHO criteria, based
on the number of lineages involved, presence of ring sideroblasts, blast
count, and presence of specific cytogenetic abnormalities (see Table 24.2
and Table 24.3).

Clinical features
Symptomatic anaemia is the most common presentation, but patients may
also present with bleeding from thrombocytopenia or with recurrent infections, owing to neutropenia. Patients with chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML) may have hepatosplenomegaly or other evidence of tissue
infiltration by leukaemic cells. Patients die from the effects of bone marrow
failure or progression to AML, which occurs in about one-third of cases.

Investigations
• FBC.
• Blood film.
• Bone marrow.
• Cytogenetics.
Macrocytic anaemia is usual, and neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and
monocytosis may also be evident. The peripheral blood film shows evidence of dysplasia, including misshapen red cells, agranular neutrophils, and
circulating blast cells.
The bone marrow is usually hypercellular, with dysplasia in at least 10% of
the cells in one or more cell lines. Typical dysplastic features in the marrow
are megaloblastoid change, binucleated erythroblasts, megakaryocytes with
multiple separate nuclei, micro-megakaryocytes, and increased blast cells
of 5–20%. Ring sideroblasts may be present and are >15% of erythroblasts
in sideroblastic subtypes. Bone marrow cytogenetics often demonstrate a
clonal cytogenetic abnormality of prognostic importance.

Myelodysplastic syndromes

Table 24.2 WHO classification of MDS
Refractory cytopenia with unilineage dysplasia
Refractory anaemia with ring sideroblasts (RARS)
Refractory cytopenia with multilineage dysplasia with or without ring
sideroblasts (RCMD)
Refractory anaemia with excess blasts-1 (RAEB-1; 5–9% blasts)
Refractory anaemia with excess blasts-2 (RAEB-2; 10–19% blasts)
Myelodysplastic syndrome unclassified (MDS-U)
MDS associated with isolated del(5q)
Reproduced with kind permission of the World Health Organization (WHO). M http://www.
who.int.

Table 24.3 WHO classification of myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative
syndromes
Chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML)
Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasm: unclassifiable
Juvenile myelomonocytic leukaemia ( JMML)
Reproduced with kind permission of the World Health Organization (WHO). M http://www.
who.int.

Management
Blood and platelet transfusion
The mainstay of management is supportive care with blood and platelet transfusions, as required. Iron chelation therapy for patients with
MDS remains controversial. It might be considered appropriate and may
improve survival for patients with excessive iron loading (ferritin >1000
micrograms/L) with repeated transfusions (>15–20 units) and with a good
prognosis (IPSS low and intermediate-1). The oral iron chelator deferasirox
is available for patients who cannot tolerate s/c desferrioxamine.
Erythropoiesis-stimulating agents and colony-stimulating factors
Treatment with the growth factors EPO, darbepoetin, and G-CSF can
improve anaemia in a proportion of patients and the neutrophil count in
the majority, which may help through the transient use of G-CSF at the
time of infections. Patients are predicted to be more likely to respond to
erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) if they have mild anaemia, no or
minimal transfusion requirements (<2 units per month), and a low endogenous EPO level. Seventy per cent of such patients will respond. Patients
with ring sideroblasts are more likely to respond to the combination of EPO
and G-CSF than EPO alone. Recent retrospective data have suggested that
responders to EPO may have a survival advantage.

563

564

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Chemotherapy
Selected patients with increased blast cells may achieve temporary remission with AML-type chemotherapy. This is most useful in patients with normal cytogenetics and as a way of achieving remission prior to allogeneic
transplantation. Patients with MDS seldom tolerate >1 or two courses of
combination chemotherapy.
Allogeneic stem cell transplantation
This is currently the only treatment with curative potential and is considered for appropriately fit patients with IPSS score intermediate-2 and high.
Conventional myeloablative stem cell transplants are reserved for younger,
fitter patients, but recent use of RIC allografts in older patients up to 65y
is encouraging. Patients with increased blasts or a clonal cytogenetic abnormality probably benefit from one or two cycles of remission induction
chemotherapy prior to transplantation.
Hypomethylating agents
There is excess methylation of gene promoter regions in MDS. This may
lead to the inhibition of tumour suppressor genes. Two prospective randomized trials of the hypomethylating agent azacytidine have demonstrated
a survival advantage in MDS patients, compared to patients receiving
supportive care, low-dose chemotherapy, or remission induction chemotherapy. The European AZA-001 phase III study randomized 179 patients
to azacytidine and 179 to best supportive care, low-dose, or conventional
chemotherapy. The OS, at a median of 21mo, was 24.4mo versus 15mo,
in favour of azacytidine. This is the first time a therapy, other than allogeneic stem cell transplantation, has clearly offered an improved OS in MDS.
Azacytidine is licensed for all subtypes of MDS in the US, but the European
licence will be restricted to patients with IPSS intermediate-2 and high,
CMML with 10–29% blasts, and AML with 20–30% blasts. Azacytidine has
been approved for use by NICE and Scottish Medicines Consortium (SMC)
and is considered standard of care for high-risk MDS patients not suitable
for transplantation.
The karyotypic abnormality deletion (5q) is the commonest abnormality identified in MDS and, as a lone abnormality, is associated with the
so-called 5q– syndrome. The accepted pathogenesis for this syndrome is
haplo-insufficiency for a number of proteins, including, amongst others, the
ribosomal protein RPS14 resulting from a crucial gene loss from the critically
deleted area at 5q. The immune modulator drug lenalidomide has recently
been shown to alleviate anaemia and produce transfusion independence in
67% of MDS patients with del(5q). Cytogenetic responses and thrombocytopenia on treatment predict for transfusion independence, suggesting
lenalidomide suppresses the MDS clone carrying del(5q). Lenalidomide was
licensed for this indication in Europe in 2015.
Anti-lymphocyte globulin (ALG) produces impressive responses in some
patients with low-risk MDS, including those with a hypocellular marrow,
akin to responses in aplastic anaemia.

Myelodysplastic syndromes

Prognosis
The IPSS predicts the prognosis, based on the number of cytopenias
(anaemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia), blast cell percentage, and
cytogenetic abnormalities (good risk, intermediate risk, or poor risk) (see
Table 24.4), which ranges from a few months (patients with excess blasts)
to several years (refractory anaemia with ring sideroblasts). Patients die
from either transformation to AML or the effects of bone marrow failure
and its treatment. This has recently been revised into the IPSS-R, with more
discriminatory use of cytogenetic groups and blast percentages. Whilst the
IPSS-R improves prognostication, it has not been used, to date, to direct
therapy, which is still based on the original IPSS (see Table 24.4).
As in AML, the recent years have seen a surge in the recognition of
molecular abnormalities commonly occurring in MDS. These have diagnostic and prognostic implications, e.g. mutations in an RNA splicing gene
SF3B1 occur in >90% of cases with ring sideroblasts, whilst mutations in
TP53 are associated with a very poor prognosis. However, again these are
not yet in routine clinical use.

Table 24.4 IPSS for MDS
Score value

0

0.5

Marrow blast (%)

<5

5–10

1.0

Karyotype

Good

Intermediate

Cytopenias

0/1

2/3

1.5
11–20

Poor

The scores for each of the above are totalled to produce the prognostic score and predicted
survival as follows.

Scores

Survival in years for age (y)
<60

>60

>70

Low (0)

11.8

4.8

3.9

Intermediate-1 (0.5–1.0)

5.2

2.7

2.4

Intermediate-2 (1.5–2.0)

1.8

1.1

1.2

High (>2.5)

0.3

0.5

0.4

565

566

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Chronic lymphoid leukaemias
These are a heterogeneous group of conditions associated with the accumulation of lymphoid cells in the peripheral blood. They are classified by
the morphology, surface immunophenotype, cytogenetics, and molecular
biology. Some lymphomas may present with lymphoid cells in the blood and
bone marrow infiltration leukaemic phase. The present WHO classification
of mature lymphoid leukaemias is shown in Table 24.5).

B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia
Epidemiology
This is the commonest leukaemia in the Western world. It occurs predominantly in late middle age and old age, with the accumulation of small,
mature-looking B-lymphocytes in the peripheral blood, bone marrow, and
lymphatic tissues.
CLL accounts for 30–40% of all leukaemias diagnosed in adults in Europe
and North America. Annual incidence, 2.5 per 100 000; ♂ to ♀ ratio, 2:1;
median age at diagnosis, 65–70y; 79% of patients over 60y at diagnosis.
There are no well-defined environmental risk factors. Genetic factors may
have a role—compare, e.g. the low incidence of CLL in Japanese people,
both in Japan and after emigration. Familial cases are well described.
Pathology
Lymphocyte clonal expansion is the result of prolonged survival of CLL
cells through failure to respond to apoptotic signals. CLL cells constitutively
express high levels of BCL-2 protein, inhibiting apoptosis.
Gradual accumulation of small lymphocytes in the lymph nodes, spleen,
bone marrow, and blood causes slowly progressive enlargement of the
lymph nodes and infiltration of the spleen and bone marrow. It is possible
to distinguish two related subtypes of B-cell CLL (B-CLL). Both arise from
B-cells that have rearranged their immunoglobulin genes. However, in one
subtype, the leukaemic cells have acquired additional somatic mutations in
their immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region genes (IgVH), in keeping
with antigen affinity maturation (mutated), and, in the other subtype, this
has not occurred (unmutated). Other pathological features include:
• a positive direct Coombs’ test in some 15%, with clinical autoimmune
haemolytic anaemia in a smaller percentage; CLL cells seem adept at
presenting rhesus antigens and promoting an immune response to the
antigens on red cells
• idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)
• hypogammaglobulinaemia
• disorders of T-lymphocyte function.
Clinical presentation
Presentation is variable, but CLL generally runs an indolent clinical course.
It is now frequently diagnosed early, often after routine blood count for
an unrelated reason. Presentation is with painless lymphadenopathy, anaemia, or infection, e.g. shingles. Constitutional symptoms are restricted to
patients with advanced disease, including fatigue, drenching night sweats,
and weight loss. In advanced disease, there is bone marrow failure, with
variable degrees of anaemia, thrombocytopenia, and neutropenia.

Chronic lymphoid leukaemias

Table 24.5 Mature lymphoid leukaemias, as classified by WHO
B-cell
B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (B-CLL/SLL)
B-cell prolymphocytic leukaemia (B-PLL)
Hairy cell leukaemia and variants
Splenic marginal zone lymphoma/leukaemia
Leukaemic phase of mantle cell lymphoma
Leukaemic phase of follicle centre cell lymphoma
Leukaemic phase of lymphoplasmacytoid lymphoma
T-cell
T-cell prolymphocytic leukaemia (T-PLL)
T-cell large granular lymphocytic leukaemia (T-LGL)
Chronic lymphoproliferative disorders of natural killer (NK) cells
Aggressive NK cell leukaemia
Adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma
Leukaemic phase of mycosis fungoides/Sézary syndrome
Reproduced with kind permission of the World Health Organization (WHO). M http://www.
who.int.

Lymphadenopathy is symmetrical, often generalized. Splenomegaly at
presentation is present in 66%; hepatomegaly is much less frequent at presentation, but common in advanced disease; involvement of other organs is
infrequent at diagnosis. The diagnosis of CLL requires peripheral blood lymphocytosis >5 × 109/L. Occasionally, patients present with lymphadenopathy
without the leukaemic phase, small cell lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SCLL).
Diagnosis
Updated British Committee for Standards in Haematology (BCSH) guidelines (2012) and NCI Working Group guidelines (2008) recommend the
following diagnostic tests:
• FBC and differential
• blood film
• bone marrow aspirate and trephine biopsy
• lymphocyte immunophenotyping
• cytogenetics by FISH, targeted at recognized abnormalities of
prognostic significance
• abdominal ultrasound.
• patients should be screened for TP53 abnormalities prior to therapy.
These are present in 5–10% of patients prior to first-line therapy and in
more at relapse.
There are NCI working group criteria for the diagnosis of CLL (see Table
24.6). The lymphocyte count is raised, and the blood film shows small lymphocytes with many disrupted ‘smear cells’. Surface antigen immunophenotyping is essential to exclude reactive causes (usually T-lymphocytosis) and
lymphocytosis due to other lymphoid neoplasms. CLL cells are typically
identified as positive for CD19, CD20, CD5, and CD23 and demonstrate
weak expression of surface immunoglobulin M (IgM). Cytogenetic abnormalities of prognostic significance include del(11q) and del(17p).

567

568

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Table 24.6 NCI Working Group revised criteria for diagnosis of CLL
Peripheral blood lymphocytosis
1. Absolute lymphocyte count >5 × 109/L
2. Morphologically mature-appearing cells
Characteristic phenotype
1. Expansion of CD19+and CD20+ B-cells, CD19+, CD5+, and CD23+
co-expressing B-cells
2. Light chain restriction, i.e. monoclonal γ or λ expression
3. Low-density surface IgM (sIgM) expression
Bone marrow examination
>30% of lymphocytes in the bone marrow if peripheral blood lymphocytosis
is relatively low, i.e. close to 5 × 109/L

Monoclonal B-lymphocytosis
The group of Hillmen et al. in Leeds has identified circulating clonal lymphocytes in 73% of people with normal lymphocyte counts (<5 × 109/L);
this has also been confirmed by others. The majority of these have the
phenotype of CLL cells, and a minority of NHL cells. This finding is more
common in the elderly and relatives of those with known CLL. The spectrum of genetic abnormalities is similar to good-prognosis CLL, with the
majority carrying mutated IgVH genes. The rate of progression to CLL is
documented at 71% per year.
Management
Patients are staged by the Binet system in Europe, and the Rai staging in the
US. There is no evidence that treatment prolongs the survival of patients
with lymphocytosis or uncomplicated lymphadenopathy (early-stage
CLL, Binet stage A), even if associated with poor-risk biological features.
Systemic therapy is indicated for symptomatic and advanced disease (progressive Binet stage A or stages B and C).
The BCSH CLL Working Party guidelines (2012) recommend using the
International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (IWCLL) guidance for initiating treatment, as follows:
• evidence of progressive marrow failure, as manifested by the
development or worsening of anaemia and/or thrombocytopenia
• massive (i.e. at least 6cm below the left costal margin) or progressive or
symptomatic splenomegaly
• massive nodes (i.e. at least 10cm in longest diameter), or progressive or
symptomatic lymphadenopathy
• progressive lymphocytosis, with an increase of >50% over a 2mo
period or a lymphocyte doubling time (LDT) of <6mo. In patients with
initial blood lymphocyte counts of <30 × 109/L, the LDT should not be
used as a single parameter to define a treatment indication
• autoimmune anaemia and/or thrombocytopenia that is poorly
responsive to corticosteroids or other standard therapy

Chronic lymphoid leukaemias

• constitutional symptoms, defined as any one or more of the following
disease-related symptoms or signs:
• unintentional weight loss of 10% or more within the previous
6mo; significant fatigue (i.e. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group
(ECOG) PS 2 or worse; inability to work or perform usual activities);
fever >38.0°C for 2 or more weeks without other evidence of
infection; or night sweats for >1mo without evidence of infection.
First-line therapy
When considering therapy, patients should be assessed for fitness and
whether or not the CLL has a TP53 abnormality. For unfit, elderly,
non-TP53-mutated/deleted patients, the alkylating agent chlorambucil
or the nucleoside analogue fludarabine have been most commonly used
as first-line therapies. Both can be given orally. Generally, they produce a
partial response—a reduction in peripheral blood lymphocytosis and an
improvement in the Hb and platelet counts, shrinking of lymphadenopathy and splenomegaly, and an improvement in constitutional symptoms.
Alternatives include bendamustine, which has mixed alkylating and nucleoside analogue activity, and combinations of chlorambucil or bendamustine
with rituximab which have high response rates and which are approved by
SMC in Scotland through a generic approval of the use of rituximab with
chemotherapy. To date, bendamustine alone has been shown to have a better response rate and duration than chlorambucil alone, and R-chlorambucil
to be better than historical controls.
For fit, non-TP53-mutated patients, two phase III trials have established
fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab (FCR) as the standard of
care. The UK CLL4 trial and the German CLL4 trial have previously shown
better overall and complete response rates for fludarabine and cyclophosphamide (FC), compared with either chlorambucil or fludarabine used
alone, although with higher rates of infective complications and no OS
advantage. The German CLL8 trial has reported that FCR is better than
FC for the overall response (95% versus 88%) and CR (52% versus 27%),
but again there is no difference in the OS at 2y. In most Western practices,
FCR has become the first-line therapy for the majority of patients who are
deemed fit enough to receive combination chemotherapy.
Fludarabine-based therapy is usually given for 4–6 courses. Fludarabine
is profoundly immunosuppressive, especially for the CD4 subset of lymphocytes, and patients are at risk of opportunistic infections, such as herpes viruses and Pneumocystis jiroveci, for many months following treatment;
patients are given prophylaxis with Septrin® and aciclovir for 6–12mo.
Alkylating agents or fludarabine-based therapy can trigger autoimmune
haemolysis, and they should be used with care in direct antiglobulin
(DAT)-positive patients. In the UK CLL4 trial, 10% of DAT-positive patients
developed haemolysis, and DAT positivity predicted for the triggering of
haemolysis by treatment. Patients treated with chlorambucil or fludarabine
were twice as likely to develop haemolysis as those treated with the FC
combination, and four haemolytic deaths occurred on fludarabine alone. FC
therefore may protect against haemolysis. FC and FCR are heavily myelosuppressive, and prolonged cytopenias and morphological bone marrow

569

570

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

dysplasia are well recognized, requiring careful monitoring of multiple
course therapy, especially in the elderly.
Patients who have TP53-mutated/deleted disease at the time of treatment should be treated in appropriate clinical trials or with agents that kill
CLL cells in a non-TP53-dependent manner. At present, this will be based
around the anti-CD52 antibody alemtuzumab.
Corticosteroids
Single-agent prednisolone (1mg/kg/day) produces a reduction in lymphocytic infiltration of the bone marrow and can result in significant
improvement in cytopenias and symptoms. This is a useful initial treatment
(1–2wk) for patients with advanced disease and pancytopenia at diagnosis prior to chemotherapy. It is also given for autoimmune haemolysis or
thrombocytopenia.
Second-line and subsequent therapy
Elderly patients relapsing after an initial response to oral
chlorambucil/R-chlorambucil/bendamustine/R-bendamustine can be
treated again if the first remission is long. Patients refractory to low-dose
chlorambucil or with short/poor initial responses should be treated
with fludarabine-based therapy, including dose-modified FCR, if feasible.
Combination chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and
prednisolone (CVP) or cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and
prednisolone (CHOP), is an alternative treatment for patients unsuitable
for fludarabine. Patients who develop progressive disease >1y after receiving fludarabine-based therapy and whose CLL responded to fludarabine
initially may be treated again with fludarabine based therapy alone or as FC
or FCR, provided there is care to observe the blood counts. A multicentre
phase III trial randomized relapsed or refractory patients to FCR or FC.
Patients could not have received these combinations before. The median
PFS was better for FCR (30.6mo versus 20.6mo).
Patients who develop progressive disease within 1y of previous
fludarabine-based therapy may be treated with FC or FCR, but second
responses are not as good.
Patients who are refractory or become resistant to fludarabine currently
have a poor prognosis.
Alemtuzumab
Alemtuzumab is a chimeric anti-CD52 antibody expressed on a wide range
of lymphocytes, including CLL cells. Patients refractory to fludarabine have
been treated with alemtuzumab, producing an overall response rate (ORR)
of 740% (10% CR and 30% partial remission), with a prolonged median
survival, compared with historical data on fludarabine-resistant patients.
Alemtuzumab is licensed for the treatment of fludarabine-failed CLL and
is the treatment of choice for patients with a known TP53 abnormality
who respond poorly to other currently available therapies and have a poor
prognosis. A randomized trial of first-line therapy with alemtuzumab versus
chlorambucil showed better PFS, with time to alternative treatment of 23.3
versus 14.7mo. Alemtuzumab is given for up to 12wk and seems more effective at clearing disease in the blood and marrow than bulky lymph nodes.
However, recent phase II data have shown that combining alemtuzumab

Chronic lymphoid leukaemias

with high doses of steroids (CAM-PRED or CAM-DEX) might improve
responses in resistant patients and improve responses in bulky disease.
Small numbers of patients have been treated with alemtuzumab maintenance. There is improved PFS, but at the cost of significant infection rates,
which led to the halting of a randomized phase III trial. Alemtuzumab is
profoundly immunosuppressive and is associated with an increased risk of
viral infections, including the reactivation of cytomegalovirus (CMV), which
should be monitored.
Newer therapies for fludarabine- and alemtuzumab-resistant disease
include the anti-CD20 mAb ofatumumab, which is licensed for this indication. However, there is considerable interest in the Bruton’s TKI ibrutinib which has shown very encouraging early phase results and is currently
undergoing randomized trials.
Stem cell transplantation
Conventional allogeneic transplantation has rarely been carried out in CLL
and is associated with a very high TRM (40–70%), predominantly relating
to the age of the patients and the co-morbidity associated with previous
multiple courses of chemotherapy. However, there does seem to be a
GVL effect for CLL, and the use of RIC allografts shows promising early
results and should be considered early in treatment planning in patients with
poor-risk characteristics such as TP53 abnormality. Autologous stem cell
transplantation (ASCT) can produce very good quality responses, including molecular negativity; however, there is an association with a high rate
of treatment-related MDS, and this approach has largely been abandoned
in CLL.
Radiotherapy
Radiotherapy is an effective local treatment for lymph nodes compromising
vital organ function. Splenic irradiation is effective for painful splenomegaly,
although splenectomy is better for massive splenomegaly if the patient is
fit for surgery.
Splenectomy
This is effective for massive splenomegaly, anaemia, or thrombocytopenia
owing to hypersplenism, and for autoimmune haemolytic anaemia refractory to prednisolone and cytotoxic therapy.
Whilst laparoscopic splenectomy is increasingly used in small or moderate splenectomy, in those cases of massive splenomegaly, open surgery is
still sometimes favoured because of the difficulty of access to the pedicle and the risk of massive blood loss. Careful preoperative counselling is
required, regarding the risk of infection post-operatively.
Prior to splenectomy, the patient requires pneumococcal, meningococcal, and Haemophilus vaccinations. Following splenectomy lifelong penicillin prophylaxis must be given to avoid infection, especially overwhelming
post-splenectomy infection (OPSI).
Prognosis
Patients with CLL containing mutated IgVH genes have a long median survival of the order of 25y. Patients with CLL containing unmutated IgVH
genes have a shorter median survival of the order of 8y. The expression of

571

572

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

certain antigens, including CD38 and ZAP-70, is associated with a poorer
prognosis, and ZAP-70 expression correlates with IgVH gene mutation status. Genetic abnormalities, including del(11q) and del(17p) (p53 deletion),
and resistance to fludarabine are associated with poor prognosis. Small
percentages of patients undergo transformation to large B-NHL (Richter
transformation) which carries a poor prognosis.
Future directions
• It is increasingly recognized that the quality of the response in CLL
correlates with the length of remission. Data from treatment with
high-dose chemotherapy or alemtuzumab have emphasized the
importance of achieving a complete response, using sensitive techniques
to detect MRD such as 4-colour flow cytometry. Further attempts to
reduce MRD burden and affect a cure will involve combinations of
antibodies, e.g. ofatumumab and rituximab.
• Maintenance antibody/chemotherapy.
• Bruton’s TKIs and combination therapies, including the
immunomodulatory drug lenalidomide.

Chronic lymphoid leukaemias

573

574

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Epidemiology and aetiology
HL is a rare malignancy, with an annual UK incidence of 3 per 100 000. The
age distribution in the West shows a large peak in the 20–30y age group,
and a smaller peak in old age. In developing countries, there is a higher
frequency of childhood cases. There have been associations described with
higher socio-economic class, Caucasian race, and previous clinical/severe
glandular fever. The cause is unknown and may differ between the various
histological subtypes. An association between infection with EBV and HL
is well documented. It occurs in about 30% of cases, particularly classical
mixed cellularity HL and lymphocyte-depleted HL in older patients.

Pathology
Classical Hodgkin’s lymphoma
The characteristic diagnostic feature is the binucleate Reed–Sternberg (RS)
cell, seen in a variable cellular background of small lymphocytes, eosinophils, neutrophils, histiocytes, plasma cells, and fibrosis. The infiltrating
lymphocytes are T-regulatory cells, which favour an anergic-type immune
response within the nodal environment, perhaps contributing to the survival
of the malignant cells. The RS cell is the malignant cell in HL, and molecular
studies have confirmed its B-cell lineage in 97% of cases.
Nodular lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Nodular lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NLPHL) is a distinct entity, characterized by ‘L & H Hodgkin cells’, also known as ‘popcorn cells’, which are of B-cell lineage and express CD20. 710% of NLPHL
develop into diffuse large B-cell NHL (DLBL). This subtype has a favourable
prognosis, although it may run a chronically relapsing and remitting course
over many years, akin to low-grade NHL.
The WHO classification of HL is summarized in Table 24.7.

Presentation
•	Painless rubbery lymphadenopathy (cervical nodes especially).
• May be generalized lymphadenopathy.
• Later spread to the liver, lungs, and marrow.
• ‘B’ symptoms:
• fever
• night sweats
• weight loss >10% over 6mo.
• Other systemic symptoms:
• itch
• alcohol-induced pain in lymph nodes (rare).

Diagnosis
The mainstay of diagnosis is a good-sized lymph node or involved tissue
biopsy, which is analysed by expert haematopathologists, using routine
morphology and IHC. Fine-needle aspirates may suggest HL but should not
be used alone for diagnosis.

Hodgkin’s lymphoma

Table 24.7 The WHO classification of HL
Classical Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Nodular sclerosis classical HL (NSCHL)
Mixed cellularity classical HL (MCHL)
Lymphocyte-rich classical HL (LRCHL)
Lymphocyte-depleted classical HL (LDHL)—rare

Staging
Spread of HL is typically to contiguous lymph node groups. As a result,
anatomical staging, using the Ann Arbor system (see Table 24.8), has been
the basis of treatment decisions in HL. The staging procedure now involves
a CT scan of the neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis, rather than laparotomy.
Bone marrow involvement is rare at presentation, but more likely with disease below the diaphragm when a marrow trephine should be included in
the staging process. PET scanning may be able to replace bone marrow
staging. The identification of prognostic factors, other than anatomical staging, has refined treatment decisions, which are now rarely made on the basis
of the anatomical stage only.

Role of 18-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission
tomography scanning in Hodgkin’s lymphoma
PET scanning has become an integral part of HL management, especially
within clinical trials. HL tissue is PET-avid and takes up radiolabelled 18FDG,
producing an intense positron signal in involved tissue, compared with the
background. Patients staged with PET are upstaged in 716% of cases, but
this leads to a change in therapy in a minority, so staging with PET has limited impact on current practice. However, assessment of early response to
treatment or end-of-treatment response has significant prognostic bearing.
Negative predictive values are high (780–90%), and positive predictive values are 760–70%. Such use of PET scanning may allow patient-adapted therapy such as the avoidance of mediastinal radiotherapy in young women with
early-stage disease who are PET-negative post-therapy, or the intensification
of treatment in patients with advanced disease who remain PET-positive
after one or two courses of standard chemotherapy. The less reliable
positive predictive value results from a number of causes of false positivity, including inflammation post-radiotherapy, infection, etc. Therefore,
long-term monitoring of remission by PET scanning is not recommended.

Prognostic factors
Recent studies have identified various presenting factors that may influence
the outcome in HL. For patients with early-stage (I and II) disease, several
studies have identified prognostic groups, based on the histological subtype,
age, sex, symptom status, number of nodal regions involved, and the presence of bulky mediastinal disease (see Table 24.9).
For patients with advanced (stages IIB—IVB) disease, seven prognostic
factors have been identified in an analysis of over 5000 patients treated
conventionally (see Table 24.10).

575

576

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Table 24.8 Ann Arbor staging system
Stage

Feature

I

Disease in a single lymph node region

II

Disease in two or more regions on the same side of the diaphragm

III

Disease in two or more regions on both sides of the diaphragm

IV

Diffuse or disseminated disease in extra-lymphatic sites, including
the liver and bone marrow

Various suffixes are added to each anatomical stage: A, no systemic symptoms; B, systemic
symptoms present; E, extra-nodal disease.

Table 24.9 EORTC prognostic groups in early-stage HL
Group

Prognostic factors

Very favourable

Stage I and age <40y, or ‘A’ plus ESR
<50mm/h, or ♀ and MT ratio* <0.35

Favourable

All other patients

Unfavourable

Age ≥40y, or ‘A’ and ESR ≥50mm/h, or ‘B’ and
ESR ≥30, or stage II4/5,, or MT ratio ≥0.35

EORTC, European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer; ESR, erythrocyte
sedimentation rate.
MT ratio, the size of the mediastinal mass, compared with the transverse diameter of the chest
on CXR.
*

Table 24.10 Adverse factors of the Hasenclever International Prognostic
Index for advanced HL
Albumin <40g/dL
Hb <10.5g/L
♂ gender
Lymphocytes <0.8 x 109/L
WCC >15 x 109/L
Lymphocytes <15% of total WCC
Stage IV
In the absence of any adverse factors, the 5y failure-free survival (FFS) rate is 84%. The presence
of each of these factors reduces the expected 5y FFS by about 7%. Having three or more factors
is generally considered a poor prognostic group.

Hodgkin’s lymphoma

Management
Since HL predominantly affects young adults, potential long-term toxicities
of therapy become of major importance now high cure rates are achieved.
Several studies of the late effects after HL therapy show that, at 30y of
follow-up, twice as many patients have died from second cancers as from
relapsed HL, and there is also a relatively high rate of MI. The recognition
of the long-term toxicity of radiation therapy, particularly to the mediastinum (second malignancies, including lung and breast cancers, pulmonary
fibrosis, coronary artery disease), has led to a major re-evaluation of the
use of extensive radiotherapy. The use of mantle radiotherapy (irradiation
of extended fields covering all the lymph nodes of the neck, mediastinum,
and axillae—44Gy in 22 fractions) in women aged <20y has been associated with breast cancer rates of up to 1 in 3 by age 50y, and such therapy
is rarely, if ever, used now. Alkylating agent-based chemotherapy is associated with t-MDS, t-AML, and infertility, and these issues are also taken into
account when planning treatment. The aim is to maintain high cure rates but
reduce long-term toxicity, especially in early-stage disease.
Early-stage (IA and IIA) disease
The majority of patients with early-stage HL present with supradiaphragmatic disease. For these patients, treatment should be determined by prognostic factors that predict the likelihood of occult subdiaphragmatic disease
not detected by routine clinical staging techniques.
Patients with very favourable stage IA NLPHL or nodular sclerosis classical HL involving the high cervical region and a low erythrocyte sedimentation
rate (ESR) are at very low risk of occult subdiaphragmatic disease and may
be treated with involved field radiotherapy (IFR), maximum dose 30Gy in 15
fractions alone. However, most patients with good-prognosis early-stage HL
treated outside a clinical trial would be offered 2–4 courses of standard ABVD
(Adriamycin®, bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine) chemotherapy, followed by
IFR, 20Gy in ten fractions. In early-stage patients without adverse risk factors,
such limited course (2–4 cycles) of ABVD or ‘ABVD-like’ chemotherapy, combined with IFR, is superior to nodal radiotherapy alone. Using this approach,
German and French HL study groups have produced 5y PFS and OS rates of
>85% and >90%, respectively. The big question in early-stage HL therefore is
whether the same cure rates can be maintained with chemotherapy alone, so
removing the long-term complications of radiotherapy. The ECOG study of
ABVD versus ABVD plus radiotherapy or radiotherapy alone showed a small
PFS advantage for using radiotherapy, without any OS benefit. Therefore, significant numbers of patients may be cured by chemotherapy alone. PET scanning
at the end of standard therapy has been shown to have a high negative predictive value (>90%) for relapse of early-stage disease and may allow the selection of PET-negative patients for omission of radiotherapy, without increasing
the risk of relapse. The National Cancer Research Network (NCRN) RAPID
trial has recently reported initial results showing that early-stage HL patients
who are PET-negative after three cycles of standard ABVD chemotherapy do
not seem to have an inferior outcome if they are randomized to not receiving
subsequent IFR. PET negativity predicted >90% PFS at 3y follow-up in both
the irradiated and non-irradiated groups. Patients with early-stage disease, but
including poor prognostic features, would be treated like those with advanced
disease in many centres.

577

578

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Advanced-stage disease (IIB–IV)
A major trial by the Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) compared
doxorubicin-based chemotherapy as ABVD alone with MOPP (mustine,
vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisolone) and MOPP alternating with
ABVD. The respective 5y freedom from salvage (FFS) rates were 61%, 50%,
and 65%, demonstrating that ABVD and MOPP/ABVD were equivalent,
and both superior to MOPP alone. Therefore, in advanced-stage HL, the
gold standard therapy has become 6–8 cycles of ABVD, producing PFS rates
of 63–87%. It is important that ABVD is delivered optimally. This has been
shown to consist of a full dose being delivered every 2wk, without dose
reduction or delay for neutropenia and without the need for growth factor
support. The German HD9 study showed superior 5y freedom from treatment failure rates of 87% with more intensive dose-escalated BEACOPP
(bleomycin, etoposide, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, prednisolone) chemotherapy, compared with baseline BEACOPP
(76%) and alternating COPP/ABVD (69%), although with considerable
acute and chronic toxicity, including an increase in t-MDS and more infertility. The OS at 5y was superior for escalated BEACOPP versus COPP/
ABVD (91% versus 83%, p = 0.002). A mixture of four courses of baseline
BEACOPP and four courses of escalated BEACOPP seems to maintain the
very high response rates and reduce the rate of t-MDS. In contrast, the
UK NCRI study of ABVD versus 12wk of intensive Stanford V regimen has
shown no difference in event-free survival (EFS) or OS between the therapies. There was extensive use of radiotherapy in both arms of this study.
The key question in advanced-stage HL therefore is whether patients can
be stratified into those likely to be cured by the gold standard ABVD from
those who need intensification of therapy. The Hasenclever Prognostic
Index identifies poor-risk patients with a score of 3 or more. However,
recent prospective data from a Danish and Italian study have shown that
50% of patients with poor-risk Hasenclever scores are cured by ABVD,
and, in the German studies, the benefit from escalated BEACOPP requires
all Hasenclever risk groups to be treated. Using this approach, significant
numbers of patients will still be exposed to the complications of treatment
intensification who can be cured by ABVD. Therefore, as an alternative
approach, the Danish and Italian study explored the use of the PET scan as a
dynamic prognostic marker. An early interim PET scan was performed after
two cycles of ABVD. Patients who were PET-negative had a 2y PFS of 95%,
irrespective of the Hasenclever score. Patients who were PET-positive had
a 2y PFS of only 13%, irrespective of the Hasenclever score. Hence, the
early interim PET scan may distinguish good-risk advanced-stage patients
who should continue treatment with ABVD and may even be able to
undergo dose reduction from poor-risk advanced-stage patients who may
benefit from dose intensification. The same group has produced retrospective data showing that patients with an early interim PET-2 positive scan
have a reduced relapse risk of about 35%, if there is escalation of therapy
to the German BEACOPP regimen. This is being tested prospectively in
the NCRI RATHL (randomized phase III trial to assess response-adapted
therapy using FDG-PET imaging in patients with newly diagnosed advanced
HL) trial, which has recently closed but not yet been reported.

Hodgkin’s lymphoma

Role of radiotherapy in advanced Hodgkin’s lymphoma
A total of 333 stages III and IV patients treated with MOPP/ABV who
achieved CR were randomized to 24Gy IFR or not. There was no difference in PFS or OS, leading to the standard practice of not offering IFR to
advanced-stage patients who achieve CR with chemotherapy. However, a
recent analysis of the UK Lymphoma Group (UKLG) LY09 trial, in which
patients were randomized to ABVD, alternating ChlVPP/PABLOE (chlorambucil, vinblastine, procarbazine, prednisolone, doxorubicin, bleomycin, vincristine etoposide), or hybrid ChlVPP/EVA (etoposide, vincristine,
doxorubicin), challenges this approach. IFR was recommended only for
incomplete response or bulk disease. The allocated chemotherapy had no
influence on the response rate, PFS, or OS at a median follow-up of 6.5y.
The EFS at 5y post-chemotherapy was better for those given radiotherapy
(86% versus 71%), and, of most concern, the 5y OS was also superior for
receiving radiotherapy (93% versus 87%). The PET scan may, in the future,
help clarify which advanced patients will benefit from the addition of radiotherapy, and this is being studied prospectively.
Salvage therapy
The prognosis for the majority of patients with HL of all stages is now very
good. However, 30–40% will relapse from CR or demonstrate ° resistant/refractory disease. Patients relapsing after >12mo in first CR show better responses to salvage chemotherapy than those with shorter first CR.
Commonly used salvage regimens include IVE (ifosfamide, etoposide, epirubicin), DHAP (cisplatin, cytarabine, dexamethasone), or ESHAP (cisplatin,
cytarabine, etoposide, methylprednisolone). Patients treated with salvage
chemotherapy alone have a long-term DFS of only 20–25%, whereas the
addition of high-dose chemotherapy and ASCT produces long-term DFS of
40–50% if patients have chemosensitive disease going into the transplant.
Results of ASCT are poorer for chemorefractory disease and, as recently
recognized, for patients not in functional CR defined by a positive PET scan
after salvage. Salvage therapy and ASCT are presently the standard of care
for the majority of relapsed patients. Recent data with RIC allografts are
encouraging for patients who relapse after ASCT. A UK study compared 38
patients receiving a RIC allograft after failed ASCT with a carefully selected
historical control who survived for 12mo post-ASCT and would have nowadays been considered for a RIC allograft. The RIC group had a 5y survival
rate from the autograft of 65%, compared to a 5y survival rate from the
autograft of only 15% for the historical control. Because of the apparent
graft versus HL effect, RIC allografting may be a more appropriate therapy
for chemorefractory or PET-positive patients after salvage than ASCT,
although, as yet, RIC allografting remains experimental in this situation.
A recent significant addition to the therapy of relapsed disease is brentuximab vedotin. This is an anti-CD30 mAb linked to the mitotic spindle
toxin monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE). A pivotal study has shown a 75%
response rate to single-agent therapy in HL patients relapsed after autografting. The median survival is 22mo, and this might be a bridge to allografting for some traditionally chemoresistant patients. Brentuximab vedotin
cannot be combined with bleomycin because of excess pulmonary toxicity.

579

580

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Future directions
•	Removal of radiotherapy for early-stage disease.
• Brentuximab vedotin as a bridge to allografting and in combination with
other agents, e.g. replacing bleomycin in ABVD.
• Anti-CD20 and radiolabelled anti-CD20 for the treatment of NLPHL.
• Anti-CD25 to target the infiltrating T-regulatory cells and promote
better immune clearance of malignant RS cells.

Hodgkin’s lymphoma

581

582

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas
Definition and aetiology
NHL is a group of malignant diseases arising from lymphocytes and their
precursors. The spectrum of NHL ranges from indolent low-grade lymphomas that are incurable, yet compatible with a number of years of survival,
to aggressive high-grade lymphomas that, left untreated, are rapidly fatal,
but which modern treatment can cure in a significant proportion of patients.
NHL is increasing in frequency, and, in the US, this increase has been
3–4% per annum since early 1970s, with a current incidence of 715 per
100 000. The pathogenesis of the majority of NHL is unknown, but identified aetiological factors include the following:
• longevity
• prolonged immunosuppression, e.g. congenital immunodeficiencies,
HIV-associated NHL, and post-transplant lymphoproliferative
disease (PTLD)
•	EBV infection in BL, HIV, and PTLD (immunosuppression-related), and
human T-cell lymphocytotrophic virus (HTLV-1) infection in adult T-cell
leukaemia/lymphoma (ATLL)
• Helicobacter infection in gastric lymphoma and coeliac disease in small
bowel lymphoma
• Chlamydia infections in ocular marginal zone lymphomas
• hepatitis C in some marginal zone lymphomas
• regular use of pre-1980 hair dyes.

Classification of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Immunological identification of lymphocytes and molecular analysis of
immunoglobulin and T-cell receptor gene rearrangements have allowed an
improved classification of NHL, based on the biology of the cells, rather
than just the morphological description. The majority of cases of NHL are
B-cell type.
The pathological classification currently employed is the WHO classification (see Table 24.11). This is based on whether lymphoma cells are
B-lymphocytes or T-lymphocytes, the perceived original cell of origin of the
lymphoma, the molecular characteristic of the lymphoma, and whether or
not a group of expert pathologists agree that the lymphoma can be reproducibly identified as a distinct entity.
In day-to-day practice, the clinical behaviour of NHL is a useful parameter, and treatment strategies are still based on classification systems that
divide NHL into indolent (low-grade) and aggressive (high-grade) diseases.
The general differences between low- and high-grade NHL are summarized
in Table 24.12.

Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas

Table 24.11 WHO classification of NHL
B-cell lymphoma
Precursor B-cell neoplasms
Precursor B-lymphoblastic leukaemia/lymphoma
Mature B-NHL
Small lymphocytic lymphoma (lymphomatous manifestation of chronic
lymphocytic leukaemia)
Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma
Splenic marginal zone lymphoma
Extra-nodal marginal zone lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue
(MALT lymphoma)
Nodal marginal zone lymphoma
Follicular lymphoma
Mantle cell lymphoma
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBL)
Mediastinal (thymic) large B-cell lymphoma
Intravascular large B-cell lymphoma
° effusion lymphoma
Burkitt’s lymphoma/leukaemia
B-cell lymphoma, unclassifiable with features intermediate between DLBL and
Burkitt’s lymphoma, or between DLBL and classical HL.
T-cell and NK-cell lymphoma
Precursor T-cell neoplasm
Precursor T-lymphoblastic lymphoma/leukaemia
Mature T-cell and NK-cell neoplasm
Cutaneous
Mycosis fungoides
Sézary syndrome
° cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma
Lymphomatoid papulosis
Extra-nodal
Extra-nodal NK-/T-cell lymphoma, nasal type
Enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma
Subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma
Nodal
Angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma
Anaplastic large T-cell lymphoma (ALK-positive or negative)
Peripheral T-cell lymphoma, unspecified
Leukaemic
T-cell prolymphocytic leukaemia
T-cell large granular lymphocytic leukaemia
Aggressive NK-cell leukaemia
Adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma

583

584

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Table 24.12 Differences between low-grade and high-grade NHL
Low-grade NHL
Indolent clinical course with relatively long survival
Incurable with present therapy—relapsing and remitting course
Non-destructive growth patterns
CNS involvement rare
High-grade lymphoma
Aggressive clinical course and rapidly fatal without treatment
Curable in a significant proportion of patients
Destructive growth pattern
CNS and extra-nodal involvement common

Clinical features and staging of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
The majority of adult patients (60–70%) present with nodal disease, whereas
the majority of children present with extra-nodal disease. One or more
areas of lymph nodes are painlessly enlarged and may remain unchanged
or slowly increase in size in low-grade NHL, or rapidly increase in size in
high-grade lymphomas. Hepatosplenomegaly is common, and extra-nodal
sites are protean and include the gut, testes, thyroid gland, bone, muscle,
lung, CNS, facial sinuses, and skin. Systemic symptoms include drenching
night sweats, loss of weight, and culture-negative fever.
Medical emergencies associated with NHL include mediastinal obstruction, obstructive nephropathy, spinal cord compression, hypercalcaemia,
and metabolic derangement. Ascites and pleural effusions (sometimes
chylous) are common end-stage features, especially in high-grade NHL.
Patients may develop bone marrow failure from lymphomatous involvement, and low-grade NHL can cause immune-mediated haemolysis or
thrombocytopenia.
Diagnosis requires a lymph node biopsy or, in the absence of lymphadenopathy, biopsy of an involved extra-nodal site. IHC and cytogenetic and
molecular techniques aid morphological diagnosis. Once again, expert
haematopathology diagnosis and an MDT review are mandatory.
The extent or stage of the disease should be determined by clinical,
rather than pathological (surgical), staging. This involves:
• CXR
• CT scanning of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis to define areas of nodal
and extra-nodal involvement
• blood count and blood film for leukaemic involvement
• bone marrow aspiration and trephine biopsy for morphology,
immunophenotyping, and cytogenetic analysis
• renal biochemistry, liver function, calcium, and uric acid
• markers of tumour burden—serum LDH and β2-microglobulin
• others, depending on the circumstances, e.g. CT brain scan, MRI of the
spine, lumbar puncture, bone scan.

Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas

Clinical staging is based on a modification of the Ann Arbor staging of HL
(see Table 24.8). The PET scan is increasingly being used in the staging and
response assessment of NHL, particularly in high-grade disease. However,
the roles of PET scanning in NHL are less well defined than in HL.

Low-grade non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Low-grade lymphomas comprise 20–45% of NHL. They tend to be disseminated at the time of presentation, with widespread lymphadenopathy,
hepatosplenomegaly, and often blood and marrow involvement.
Follicular lymphoma
This is the archetypal low-grade B-cell NHL and the most common subtype of indolent NHL (30% of cases). It typically presents at an older age,
although it is also seen in young people. Rarely, it presents as an apparent true stage I when it may be cured by IFR. More commonly, it presents
as stage III or IV when it remains incurable in the majority with current
treatments but runs a relapsing and remitting course, with an improving
median survival of 712y. This lymphoma can transform to high-grade NHL
in 30–60% of cases, which carries a high mortality. High-grade transformation seems to be very rare in patients surviving beyond 15y or so.
The lymphoma cells contain a reciprocal chromosomal
translocation—t(14;18) (q32;q21). This leads to the oncogene BCL-2, from
chromosome 18, coming under the regulation of the immunoglobulin heavy
chain gene (IgH) on chromosome 14. The increased production of BCL-2
protects the lymphoma cell from apoptosis (programmed cell death), and,
as such, follicular lymphoma (FL) represents a relentless accumulation of
malignant cells.
Management strategies: presentation
• IFR (24Gy in 12 fractions) for the small number of patients who are
apparently stage I. This can be curative, although many patients will
prove to have occult systemic disease and relapse.
• For advanced disease (> stage I), avoid chemotherapy-based treatment
until significant symptoms. This so-called ‘watch and wait’ approach
remains valid, although it needs to be retested with each new
development in ° therapy. There are some registry data suggesting
‘watch and wait’ might be associated with an increased risk of
high-grade transformation.
•	The UK ‘Watch and Wait’ study has confirmed that single-agent
rituximab given to asymptomatic advanced-stage FL patients delays
the time to first chemotherapy. However, to date, there is no survival
benefit, and this approach remains controversial.
For symptomatic patients (bulky lymphadenopathy, systemic symptoms,
cytopenias, organ dysfunction), recent randomized data, confirmed by a
meta-analysis, have demonstrated a higher response rate, longer time to disease progression (PFS), and now OS for first-line treatment with rituximab
(R)-based immunochemotherapy. Rituximab is a chimeric anti-CD20 mAb.
The optimal chemotherapy to combine with rituximab remains unclear, and
rituximab is now licensed for use with a range of first-line chemotherapies.

585

586

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

The randomized trial PRIMA (a multicentre phase III, open-label, randomized study in patients with advanced FL evaluating the benefit of maintenance therapy with rituximab (mAb therapy) after induction of response
with chemotherapy plus rituximab, in comparison with no maintenance
therapy) suggests that R-CHOP produces higher-quality responses, but
this part of the trial was not randomized. At present, the mainstays of initial therapy are R-CVP, rather than CVP (cyclophosphamide, vincristine,
prednisolone) (at median 53mo: OS 83% versus 77%, time to treatment
failure (TTF) 34mo versus 15mo); R-CHOP, rather than CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisolone) (at median 18mo: OS
95% versus 90%, TTF not reached versus 29mo); and R-MCP, rather than
MCP (mitoxantrone, chlorambucil, prednisolone) (at median 47mo: OS
87% versus 74%, TTF not reached versus 26mo). A recent randomized
trial has shown equivalent efficacy between R-CHOP and R-bendamustine
as first-line therapy, but with less toxicity in the R-bendamustine-treated
patients. R-bendamustine is, as such, an attractive option. Very elderly or
infirm patients are still appropriately treated with the oral alkylating agent
chlorambucil or R-chlorambucil but may benefit from R-bendamustine.
There may be further benefit for prolonged (2y) rituximab maintenance
therapy in first remission, for which it is now licensed. The PRIMA study has
confirmed that rituximab maintenance in first remission converts some partial responses to complete responses and prolongs the PFS but, to date, has
not produced an improvement in the OS. Many centres now use rituximab
maintenance after first-line therapy.
Treatments at time of progression from first response
As at presentation, there is no rush to treat asymptomatic patients at first
or subsequent relapses; watch and wait remains appropriate. There should
be a low threshold for repeat biopsy to exclude high-grade transformation.
Available therapies are similar to first-line therapy, with some additional
options, and include:
• CHOP, CVP, bendamustine, or chlorambucil with or without rituximab
• purine analogues—fludarabine and cladribine, with or without rituximab.
The regimen described in CLL (FCR) has become a popular second-line
therapy in FL for fitter patients, achieving high response rates. However,
prolonged marrow toxicity is common, and stem cell mobilization after
FCR can be problematic
• single-agent rituximab (palliation)
• radiolabelled mAb (radioimmunoconjugate) 131I-anti-B1 (tositumomab)
and 90Y-anti-CD20 (ibritumomab tiuxetan not licensed in the UK)
• patients relapsing from non-rituximab-based first-line therapy show
a survival benefit for R-CHOP as second-line therapy, followed by
rituximab maintenance every 3mo for 2y or until relapse. Rituximab
has a licence for such maintenance therapy in second remission and
is approved as such by the SMC in the UK. Whether or not patients
receiving rituximab chemotherapy as first line (almost universal now)
show the same benefit at relapse is unclear.

Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas

Role of stem cell transplantation
•	Phase III randomized data for the use of high-dose chemotherapy
and ASCT in first remission have demonstrated prolonged PFS versus
IFN-α maintenance in the GLSG trial, but not in the GELF94 study, and
with no OS advantage to date. ASCT is associated with higher rates of
morbidity, including second cancers. Therefore, ASCT is reserved for
second and subsequent responses outside of clinical trials.
•	The European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation
(EBMT)-sponsored CUP (conventional chemotherapy, unpurged,
purged autograft) study suggests a PFS and OS advantage for
randomization to ASCT in relapsed FL (4y OS of 46% versus 71%
versus 77% for chemotherapy alone versus unpurged ASCT versus
purged ASCT, respectively). However, this study suffered from slow
accrual and closed early, with only 140 of a planned 250 recruited and
only 89 randomizations.
•	There is clearly an allogeneic graft versus lymphoma effect for FL and am
increasing interest in RIC allografting for relapsed patients. The EBMT
has completed a retrospective comparison of 1394 patients receiving
ASCT and 110 patients receiving a RIC allograft for relapsed FL. The
RIC patients, not surprisingly, had received more prior lines of therapy,
took longer to get to transplant, and were more likely to have refractory
disease at the time of transplant. The cumulative 100-day and 1y TRM was
5% and 15%, respectively, for RIC allograft and 2% and 3%, respectively,
for ASCT. However, there were no relapses beyond 30mo for RIC
allografts, with the 3y and 5y PFS being 62% for RIC allografts versus 58%
and 48% for ASCT. The usual story for allografting of higher TRM but
reduced relapse risk clearly holds true for relapsed FL with the potential
for long-term remission/cure via the graft versus lymphoma effect.
•	Patients suffering from high-grade transformation of FL, who respond
to salvage chemotherapy and are fit enough, may benefit from ASCT or
RIC allografting, and these approaches are commonly pursued in this
situation.
In summary, it is clear that patients with FL should be treated with
rituximab-based immunochemotherapy as first line and be considered
for either rituximab maintenance or stem cell transplantation in second
response. The best order of all other palliative therapies is unclear. Given
that no therapy is clearly curative, most patients end up receiving all available therapies in a typical relapsing and remitting natural history over several
years. Since the quality of the response (negative or low-level MRD) correlates with the length of the response, intensive therapies, like ASCT and
RIC allografts, are able to produce long remissions.
Prognosis
• Follicular lymphoma International Prognostic Index (FLIPI) identifies
three risk groups, based on five clinical parameters—age, stage, Hb
concentration, LDH, and the number of nodal sites. Three prognostic
groups are produced, with 10y survivals of 776%, 52%, and 24%.
• Gene expression profiling provides prognostic information. Interestingly,
the gene expression signatures of the infiltrating T-cells and monocytes
within the FL node have been shown to predict for survival.

587

588

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Marginal zone lymphomas
After FL and CLL/SCLL, the group of diseases known as marginal zone lymphomas (MZL) are the next most frequent low-grade lymphomas. There
are three subtypes recognized:
• extra-nodal MZL (most common presentation) involving the stomach,
small bowel, salivary glands, thyroid, adnexa of the eye, lung, and other
rarer sites. These lymphomas arise in acquired mucosa-associated
lymphoid tissue (MALT) resulting from chronic inflammatory stimuli,
either infective or autoimmune. Examples include Helicobacter pylori
in the stomach, Chlamydia in the eye, and Sjögren’s syndrome with
parotid MZL
• splenic MZL presenting as splenomegaly, with bone marrow
involvement, circulating villous lymphocytes, and a possible association
with hepatitis C infection in some parts of the world
• nodal MZL (rare).
Management
The archetypal gastric MZL without t(11;18) translocation has a high
response rate to H. pylori eradication. Patients who fail this treatment
respond well to IFR. MZL, in general, are very sensitive to radiotherapy,
and the treatment of choice for stage I disease at most sites is relatively
low-dose (up to 30Gy) IFR. Ongoing trials include tetracycline for Chlamydia
eradication for eye MZL.
The long-running International Extra-nodal Lymphoma Study Group
(IELSG)-19 trial for advanced extra-nodal MZL or failed local therapy has
recently reported the final results for the initial randomization between
chlorambucil and R-chlorambucil. With a median follow-up of 62mo,
R-chlorambucil shows higher response rates and longer EFS, but the 5y OS
are identical in both groups (89%).
Splenic MZL are often successfully treated with splenectomy, and nodal
MZL are treated similarly to FL in many centres.
Mantle cell lymphoma
Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) accounts for 76% of NHL. Whilst histologically low grade, it carries the poorest prognosis of all NHL, with a median
survival of 73y. The disease presents predominantly as nodal, although a
relatively benign leukaemic form is recognized most commonly in older
men. A rarer high-grade blastoid variant is also recognized. Bowel involvement, in the form of multiple lymphomatous polyps, is well recognized. The
tumour, like CLL/SCLL, is CD5-positive but carries the hallmark cytogenetic rearrangement t(11;14), leading to an overexpression of cyclin D1
used for diagnosis.
Management
Indolent forms can be observed until clinical progression. At first treatment,
the decision is taken as to whether or not the patient is fit for ASCT.
For non-transplant patients, CHOP produces poor CR rates of 730%.
A meta-analysis has suggested a benefit in the response rates for the addition of rituximab to front-line chemotherapy, and the German Low-Grade
Lymphoma Study Group has shown an advantage in the ORR (92% versus

Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas

75%), response duration (29mo versus 18mo), and TTF (28mo versus
14mo), but no OS benefit for R-CHOP versus CHOP.
The European Mantle Cell Study has recently reported that R-CHOP,
followed by 2y of rituximab maintenance, produces better OS than FCR,
followed by rituximab maintenance, in older patients not considered suitable for high-dose therapy. This benefit was surprising, given the historically
poor results with CHOP alone, and seemed to result from lower response
rates, higher toxicity (infections), and no maintenance benefit in the FCR
arm. A UK National Cancer Research Institute (NCRI) phase III trial compared FCR with FC and demonstrated a survival benefit for FCR.
Therefore, for patients not eligible for high-dose therapy, R-CHOP, followed by rituximab maintenance, seems to be the standard of care, with
FCR and R-bendamustine as alternative options.
There are high response rates for regimens using higher doses of cytarabine (ara-C), coupled with high-dose therapy and ASCT, in younger, fitter
patients. HyperC-VAD/MTX, followed by ASCT or with rituximab and no
ASCT, has produced an OR of 90–100% and CR of 58–100%. Recently,
the Nordic Lymphoma Group has treated 160 consecutive patients with
alternating R-maxi CHOP/R-high-dose cytarabine, followed by ASCT, in
the MCL2 trial. The results are very encouraging, with a median follow-up
of 6y, demonstrating a median OS of >10y. However, the earlier hope for
a plateau in the survival curve, suggesting cure, looks less likely with longer
follow-up.
High-dose cytarabine-based regimens, followed by ASCT, have become
the accepted standard of care for younger patients.

High-grade non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
High-grade NHLs have an aggressive blastic morphology and a strong
tendency to involve the CNS and other extranodal sites—lymphoblastic,
Burkitt’s, ATLL, and ° CNS lymphoma. The commonest type is DLBL
which has an overall rate of CNS involvement of 5%; however, the risk
of CNS disease is higher in certain situations: if involving the testes or
breasts, involving multiple extra-nodal sites, paraspinal sites, or, controversially, if there is raised LDH. A poor-risk International Prognostic Index (IPI)
(score of 3 or more) is a surrogate for these individual risk factors. Such
patients require CNS examination and consideration for CNS prophylaxis.
Most centres will not give CNS prophylaxis for a raised LDH alone, as this
would account for 50% or so of patients, but only if it is associated with
other risk factors. The incidence of CNS relapse in DLBL in the era of
R-chemotherapy has fallen, and the benefit of CNS prophylaxis has become
more controversial, with at least one study suggesting no difference in the
CNS relapse risk (71.6%) for patients receiving prophylaxis. The more rapid
clearance of systemic disease by R-chemotherapy may reduce early CNS
seeding.
Burkitt’s lymphoma
BL is a highly aggressive B-cell malignancy, characterized by a rearrangement
of the c-MYC oncogene on chromosome 8 via t(8;14) or a variant translocation. c-MYC deregulation leads to a cell cycle fraction approaching 100%,
which is commonly used in the diagnostic process, along with cytogenetics,

589

590

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

and a follicle centre phenotype. The disease sometimes presents as mature
B-ALL (Burkitt’s leukaemia), with distribution in the blood and marrow,
rather than lymph nodes and solid organs. Some DLBL have very high cell
cycle fractions (>90%), and some of these have c-MYC rearrangements.
Two epidemiological subtypes of BL are recognized:
• endemic:
• in equatorial Africa
• 90% associated with EBV infection
• young adults/children, present with head/neck tumours
• sporadic:
• associated with EBV in 720%
• abdominal disease more common
• occurs as non-HIV-related or HIV-related.
Management
Rapidly cycling, high-intensity multi-agent chemotherapy with a backbone
of MTX, cyclophosphamide, and ifosfamide, including CNS prophylaxis,
is frequently curative in non-HIV BL. Aggressive management of tumour
lysis risk is important, with IV fluids, rasburicase, and regular electrolyte
monitoring. The regimen developed by Magrath of CODOX-M (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, MTX, IT cytarabine) alone for low-risk
disease (early-stage and normal LDH) or CODOX-M alternating with
IVAC (ifosfamide, etoposide, cytarabine, IT MTX) for poor-risk disease is
one frequently used example. Recent UK data from the LY10 trial, using
dose-modified CODOX-M/IVAC to limit toxicity, produced a 2y PFS of
64% for non-HIV BL and 55% for BLL. The 2y PFS of low-risk patients
rose to 85%. Given the B-cell phenotype, recent attempts to improve outcome have included the addition of rituximab. Twenty-four patients (eight
HIV-related) received R-CODOX-M/R-IVAC, producing an EFS and OS
of 67% and 75%, respectively, at a median of 19mo. HIV-related BL has
a poorer prognosis than non-HIV-related BL. R-CODOX-M/R-IVAC has
therefore become the standard of care. Immunocompromised patients are
less able to tolerate the regimen toxicity. However, increasing success is
seen with the type of regimens described, when used concurrently with
highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). There is a less toxic infusional
regimen known as dose-adjusted R-EPOCH which is also successful in
HIV-associated BL, and possibly in non-HIV frailer patients.
Lymphoblastic lymphoma
Presents with or without leukaemia, is commoner in children than adults,
and is most often T-cell type, typically featuring a mediastinal mass and
pleural effusion. Treatment includes emergency management of mediastinal
obstruction and prevention of the tumour lysis syndrome, as described earlier. Intensive combination chemotherapy schedules, similar to those used
in ALL and including CNS-directed therapy, have improved the outlook in
children, but results in adults remain less good.
Poor prognostic features include bone marrow and/or CNS involvement,
LDH >300IU/L, age >30y, and delayed achievement of CR. Allogeneic
and autologous progenitor cell transplantation may improve survival in
these cases.

Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas

Diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
This is the commonest high-grade NHL and accounts for 740% of all NHL.
It presents as nodal disease alone (60%) or as extra-nodal disease (°
extra-nodal DLBL) or with combined nodal and extra-nodal disease.
First-line therapy
A short course (3–4) of CHOP-like chemotherapy (most commonly,
R-CHOP now), followed by IFR (30Gy in 15 fractions), can cure 790% of
non-bulky stage IA disease.
For all other stages, 6–8 courses of R-CHOP have become the gold
standard chemotherapy. This follows the landmark Groupe d’Étude des
Lymphomes des Adultes (GELA) trial that showed an EFS and OS advantage
at 5y for patients over the age of 60y treated with eight courses of R-CHOP
(EFS 47%, OS 58%), compared with CHOP (EFS 29%, OS 45%). Similar
results have been produced for younger patients. In a German study, CHOP
given every 14 days with G-CSF support produced a better CR rate (77%
versus 63.2%) and longer TTF than CHOP given every 21 days. However,
a large UK NCRI trial, with over 1000 patients randomized to R-CHOP-14
against R-CHOP-21, showed identical OS. Interestingly, toxicity was less in
the R-CHOP-14 arm because of the routine use of G-CSF support.
The current standard of care therefore remains R-CHOP-21 for six
cycles, with G-CSF support for elderly and frailer patients considered at
high risk for neutropenic sepsis. R-CHOP-14 might be considered for
younger patients who wish to return to work faster.
Whilst R-CHOP is a milestone development in the first-line management of DLBL, there remain significant issues in patients with advanced
poor-prognosis disease, including those with a c-MYC rearrangement
or double hit lymphomas (c-MYC and IgH-BCL-2) who fare less well with
R-CHOP, and in all patients who relapse after R-CHOP who may be less
salvageable than those relapsing from CHOP. Attempts are being made to
intensify the first-line therapy for poor-risk patients (IPI ≥3). One example
is the UK NCRI trial of modified R-CODOX-M/R-IVAC in such patients.
A meta-analysis has failed to demonstrate a benefit for high-dose chemotherapy and ASCT in first remission.
Relapsed diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Historically, patients relapsing after CHOP chemotherapy who respond
to salvage chemotherapy have been shown to have a survival benefit with
high-dose chemotherapy and ASCT, which is the accepted standard of care
for patients who are fit. There are a number of widely used salvage therapies, and no one is clearly superior. The addition of rituximab is beneficial
in patients who did not receive rituximab in first line. In the GELA study,
patients relapsing from the CHOP arm survived longer with R-salvage
than salvage alone (p = 0.00043), but the benefit was not significant for
R-salvage in those relapsing from the R-CHOP arm (p = 0.073), with very
small numbers. Taking all patients, there was a benefit for R-salvage, and
this has become the standard of care. Commonly used regimens are R-ICE
(ifosfamide, carboplatin, etoposide), R-DHAP (dexamethasone, high-dose
cytarabine, cisplatin), and R-IVE (ifosfamide, etoposide, epirubicin), followed, where possible, by ASCT for chemoresponsive disease. There are

591

592

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

data suggesting no benefit for trying >1 type of salvage therapy if there
is chemoresistance, although this is often a difficult decision for physicians
and patients to make. The recently completed CORAL trial has compared
R-ICE versus R-DHAP followed by ASCT and randomization to maintenance rituximab or not. The study suggests patients relapsing from R-CHOP
earlier than 12mo have a very poor outlook, and there is no superiority for
either of the salvage regimens. The role of RIC allografting is less clear in
DLBL than in HL or FL.
Prognosis of diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
•	The IPI identifies prognostic groups, based on a score of 1 for each
of: age, stage, number of extra-nodal sites, LDH, and performance
status. A score of 0/1 is low risk, score of 2 low intermediate risk,
score of 3 high intermediate risk, and score of 4/5 high risk. The IPI
remains prognostic in the era of R-CHOP, with 4y probability of OS
being 95% for IPI 0, 90% for IPI 1, 70% for IPI 2, 55% for IPI 3, and 28%
for IPI 4.
•	Recent gene expression profiling has had a significant impact on
identifying biological subgroups of DLBL, with prognostic importance.
A germinal centre signature is associated with a good prognosis,
whereas an activated B-cell signature is associated with a poor
prognosis.

Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas

593

594

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Myeloma
Epidemiology and aetiology
Myeloma (multiple myeloma, myelomatosis) is due to the unregulated proliferation of monoclonal plasma cells in the bone marrow. Their accumulation leads to anaemia and eventually marrow failure, and indirectly to bone
resorption resulting in lytic lesions, generalized osteoporosis, and pathological fractures. The cell of origin has not been conclusively identified but may
be a memory B-lymphocyte. The cause is unknown.
The overall incidence of the disease is 4 per 100 000 in the UK, but
over 30 per 100 000 in subjects over 80y of age. It is higher amongst
African-Americans and much lower in Chinese and Japanese Asian populations. It is rare under the age of 40y.

Pathology
Plasma cell dyscrasias can present in a number of ways:
• monoclonal gammopathy of uncertain significance (MGUS)—
paraprotein in serum <30g/L, marrow clonal plasma cells <10%, with
no features of myeloma end-organ damage or lymphoma or amyloidosis
• solitary plasmacytoma—either of bone or extramedullary
• asymptomatic myeloma—paraprotein in serum >30g/L and/or marrow
clonal plasma cells >10%, but no features of myeloma-related end-organ
damage (anaemia, hypercalcaemia, bone lesions, kidney impairment)
• systemic amyloidosis
• multiple myeloma—paraprotein in serum and/or urine, bone marrow
clonal plasma cells, and myeloma-related end-organ damage.
Some lymphomas can present with a paraprotein, most commonly lymphoplasmacytic NHL (Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia), but also CLL,
MZL, and, less frequently, FL.
The clonal plasma cells in myeloma synthesize, and usually secrete, a
monoclonal protein (M protein, paraprotein). This is most commonly
intact immunoglobulin but may be immunoglobulin together with free light
chain, or free light chain only. IgG is secreted in 60% of cases, IgA in 20%,
and free light chain in 20%. Light chains can pass through the glomerular
filter, saturate the reabsorption mechanism, and appear in the urine as
Bence–Jones protein. In rare cases, there is synthesis of monoclonal IgD,
IgE, or IgM, or of two clonal proteins. Also uncommon are non-secretory
and non-synthesizing variants of the disease. However, more sensitive
methods of detecting free light chain in the serum and urine have suggested
that many cases of non-secretory myeloma are, in fact, low-level light chain
secretors.

Clinical features
The accumulation of plasma cells in the bone marrow, the induction of
bone resorption, and paraprotein synthesis explain the clinical findings.
Marrow infiltration
Malignant plasma cells accumulate in the red marrow of the axial skeleton
and flat bones. Anaemia is common and frequently present at diagnosis. It

Myeloma

results from the combination of anaemia of chronic disease, renal impairment, and bone marrow suppression if the plasma cell burden is high. Overt
bone marrow failure is more commonly a feature of end-stage disease.
Bone resorption
There is abnormal bone remodelling with increased bone resorption and
inhibition of osteoblastic bone formation. This leads to the lytic destruction
of the skeleton and hypercalcaemia, usually with a normal alkaline phosphatase. The pathogenesis of the osteoclast bone resorption is understood
to result from an abnormal cytokine signalling between malignant plasma
cells, osteoclasts, osteoblasts, and marrow stromal cells. In particular,
increased levels of the receptor activator of NF-kappa B (RANK) ligand,
produced by myeloma cells and marrow stromal cells, coupled with a suppression of soluble osteopetegrin (OPG), favour osteoclast bone resorption. Other cytokines, such as IL-6, further support excess osteoclast
activity.
Bone pain is the most common presenting complaint, especially severe
back pain. There may be fractures of the proximal long bones, ribs, and
sternum, and vertebral crush fractures. The increased bone resorption also
leads to hypercalcaemia and associated symptoms of thirst, polyuria, nausea, constipation, drowsiness, and even coma. Plain X-ray examination typically reveals osteoporosis and typical lytic lesions that are often visualized
on skull films.
Secretion of paraprotein
Accumulation of M protein in the plasma may result in hyperviscosity, with
lethargy and confusion progressing to fits and coma. There is a characteristic retinopathy in hyperviscosity syndrome, with distension of the retinal
veins and irregular vessel constrictions; haemorrhages and papilloedema
may be present. IgA and IgM (almost exclusively lymphoma-associated)
paraproteins are especially likely to induce hyperviscosity, although IgG also
if in high level or has IgG3 subclass. Bence–Jones protein is deposited in the
renal tubules and leads to renal failure (cast nephropathy). Other factors
contributing to renal failure are:
• hypercalcaemia and dehydration
• amyloid deposition
• infection.
Paraproteinaemia is typically accompanied by immunoparesis, which contributes to the infection risk. In non-secretory myeloma, the only immunological abnormality may be immunoparesis, giving rise to diagnostic
confusion.

Other features
Plasmacytomas may be palpable and also cause pressure effects. Spinal cord
compression is most frequent and constitutes a medical emergency with the
need for urgent assessment and local radiotherapy and/or decompressive
surgery. Amyloidosis may present as macroglossia, renal failure, peripheral
neuropathy, and cardiac failure. A syndrome of high-output cardiac failure is
an occasional feature, unrelated to cardiac amyloid.

595

596

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Very occasionally, the bone lesions appear sclerotic, and this variant of the
disease is often accompanied by severe progressive peripheral neuropathy.
This combination of sclerotic lesions and neuropathy may also occur as part
of the ‘POEMS’ syndrome where plasma cell dyscrasia is accompanied by:
• sensorimotor polyneuropathy
• organomegaly (principally hepatomegaly)
• endocrinopathy (diabetes mellitus, amenorrhoea, gynaecomastia)
• M protein
• skin changes (predominantly pigmentation).

Diagnosis
• FBC.
•	ESR/plasma viscosity.
•	U & Es and serum calcium and albumin.
•	Electrophoresis and immunofixation of serum and urine for paraprotein.
• Quantification of intact paraprotein in serum or free light chain in serum
for light chain or non-secretory myeloma. This is expressed as a serum
free light chain ratio (SFLCR).
• β2-microglobulin quantification.
• Bone marrow aspirate and trephine biopsy.
• Skeletal survey.
• MRI of the spine in cases of isolated plasmacytoma.
The classic diagnostic triad consists of bone marrow infiltration with monoclonal plasma cells, osteolytic lesions on skeletal X-rays, and paraproteinaemia/Bence–Jones proteinuria. For diagnostic purposes, the bone marrow
clonal plasma cell count and the paraprotein do not have to be at any given
level, provided there is evidence of myeloma-related organ or tissue impairment, including bone lesions. The distribution of plasma cells is notoriously
patchy but is often over 30%, usually with morphologically abnormal forms.
Cytogenetic abnormalities, most commonly on chromosomes 13 and 14,
and aneuploidy are usually present when analysed by FISH, although their
demonstration is not necessary for diagnostic purposes. The myeloma cells
tend to be positive for CD38 and syndecan-1 (CD138). Additional common features are:
• raised ESR and rouleaux on a blood film
• normocytic anaemia
• pancytopenia
• renal impairment.
In 730%, hypercalcaemia is present at diagnosis, and typically the serum
alkaline phosphatase concentration is normal and the isotope bone scan
negative (due to suppressed osteoblastic activity). The serum albumin may
be low.
•	The main differential diagnosis is MGUS. Its prevalence is around 20
times higher than that of multiple myeloma, and it is age-related—1% of
the population, rising to 3% of subjects over 80y of age, have detectable
paraprotein. There is a progression rate to multiple myeloma of 1%
per year.
• Asymptomatic myeloma is associated with an initially stable course and
a relatively long survival.

Myeloma

In plasma cell leukaemia, there are >20% of plasma cells in peripheral
blood. It may be a presenting feature or develop late in the disease course,
and it is typically poorly responsive to therapy.
• Solitary plasmacytoma of bone (SBP) presents as a single bone lesion
with normal bone marrow, and 60% have a paraprotein, often of low
titre. The common sites are the axial skeleton, especially the vertebrae,
and include the skull base. Despite normal marrow morphology, recent
MRI data have shown that 25% of patients have an abnormal marrow
signal at presentation, and MRI of the spine should be performed before
delivering radical radiotherapy to SBP. The tumour is radiosensitive, but
myeloma subsequently develops in two-thirds of cases.
• Solitary extramedullary plasmacytoma (SEP) is a rare soft tissue plasma
cell tumour, occurring most commonly in the upper airways of the head
and neck, especially the nasopharynx, sinuses, and tonsils. Again, the
bone marrow is normal, and there is no paraprotein in the majority of
cases. The tumour is radiosensitive. Multiple myeloma develops less
commonly than in SBP, in up to 30% of cases.

Management
Myeloma remains an incurable malignancy. However, significant developments during the last 15y have led to longer survival and better quality of
life. The disease now runs a relapsing and remitting course over several
years, somewhat akin to low-grade lymphoma. Untreated, death usually
occurs within months, especially from infection and renal failure, and is
often preceded by intractable bone pain. Initial therapy should include:
• adequate analgesia, often necessitating the use of opiates, with
radiotherapy to areas of persisting local bone pains
• rehydration and vigorous management of hypercalcaemia using IV
bisphosphonate. Dialysis is occasionally necessary for the management
of renal impairment, and plasma exchange for the rapid correction of
hyperviscosity syndrome. The ‘MERIT’ trial is currently looking at the
benefit of early plasma exchange in patients with renal failure
• asymptomatic myeloma does not require therapy but should be
monitored carefully, and treatment is initiated on the development of
end-organ damage.
First-line therapy
•	Trial-based therapy remains the best approach, where possible. Recent
large trials have led to a fundamental switch in approach to novel
therapy-based treatment, and the current BCSH guidelines recommend
that initial therapy contains at least one of the novel agents thalidomide,
lenalidomide, or bortezomib. In 1800 patients recruited to the two age
groups of the MRC Myeloma IX study, the addition of thalidomide, in
the form of CTD (cyclophosphamide, thalidomide, dexamethasone),
improved response rates, compared to CVAD (cyclophosphamide,
vincristine, daunorubicin, dexamethasone) or MP (melphalan,
prednisolone). CTD is the most commonly used initial therapy in the
UK, prior to autografting. Older patients (>65y) and patients not
considered for high-dose chemotherapy are, in the majority, treated
in the UK with dose-adjusted CTD or MPT (melphalan, prednisolone,

597

598

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

thalidomide). The pivotal trial compared MPT (125 patients) with
MP (196 patients) in patients aged 65–75y. With a median follow-up
of 51mo, the OS was 51.6mo versus 33.2mo, in favour of MPT, and
subsequently MPT has been approved by SMC. Treatment is given
until maximum response, assessed by intact paraprotein levels or
SFLCR—known as plateau.
•	The thalidomide side effects of somnolence, constipation, peripheral
neuropathy, and risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) are important
and limit the dose escalation (100–200mg/day), and indeed any use in
some patients.
•	The proteasome inhibitor bortezomib is also approved for first-line
use in the US, but not in the UK. In the VISTA trial, BMP (bortezomib,
melphalan, prednisolone) (344 patients) was compared to MP (338
patients), and the median TTP was 24mo, compared to 16.6mo, in
favour of BMP, which converted into a reduction in the risk of death of
39% at 16mo follow-up.
•	Younger patients in the UK are commonly treated with
non-dose-adjusted CTD until maximum response/plateau, usually
4–6 courses, with a view to proceeding in first response to high-dose
melphalan (200mg/m2) and ASCT. Randomized data from the last 15y
have shown increased CR rates and survival benefit for ASCT of about
18mo, pushing the median survivals to 5y and leading to its adoption
as standard of care. However, recent analyses suggest the benefit may
apply only to those who are not in CR following initial therapy. The
move to more effective first-line therapies, based on thalidomide and
increasingly bortezomib and lenalidomide, might allow the delay of
ASCT until relapse for those who get a CR (no detectable paraprotein
and plasma cells <5%) with initial treatment.
• All patients are treated with bisphosphonates as bone protection for
up to 1y from the achievement of CR, or lifelong in non-remitters
(the majority). Commonly used drugs are oral sodium clodronate or
IV pamidronate and zoledronic acid. However, the Myeloma IX trial
has shown a significant OS benefit for zoledronic acid (Zometa®) over
clodronate, and, as such, Zometa® has become the standard of care for
most patients. Important issues during the delivery of care include:
• prescribing thalidomide and lenalidomide via a risk management
programme to prevent exposure of unborn babies. Prescribing
thromboprophylaxis to patients on thalidomide and lenalidomide,
especially early on when the disease bulk is high and the risk of VTE
is of the order of 6%
• obtaining a dental check prior to giving bisphosphonates and
stopping bisphosphonates prior to dental work to minimize the risk
of ONJ.
•	The role of thalidomide and lenalidomide maintenance in first plateau
has been investigated. In the UK Myeloma IX trial, the PFS was
improved with maintenance thalidomide in all treatment groups, but
with no OS benefit. Patients not achieving at least a very good partial
remission after ASCT might benefit from maintenance thalidomide, and
this is supported in the current BCSH guideline, but it is not generally

Myeloma

recommended for any other groups. It may be detrimental to patients
with the cytogenetic abnormality del(17p).
• Lenalidomide maintenance has been shown to delay progression after
autograft. However, its cost effectiveness is not proven. Furthermore,
there are data suggesting that lenalidomide increases the incidence of
second solid malignancies in myeloma. The EMA has issued a warning
relating to this, and, whilst the risk–benefit analysis continues to
favour its use with dexamethasone in myeloma, they have stated that
lenalidomide should not be prescribed outside of its licensed indications.
As such, lenalidomide maintenance is not generally used in the UK at
present.
• IFN-α, administered as maintenance therapy, appears to extend the
duration of the plateau phase, according to a meta-analysis. However,
this is probably not a meaningful survival, being of the order of 3mo,
especially given that the therapy is associated with significant side effects
and impinges on the QoL. As such, it is not recommended in the current
BCSH guideline.
Allografting in myeloma remains controversial. Conventional allografting
carries an unacceptably high TRM. Recent data with RIC allografting, including some randomized data, are more encouraging, and studies looking at
RIC allografts in younger patients at a time of MRD post-ASCT are ongoing.
Treatment of relapse/progressive disease
New agents have offered significant benefit in the palliation of progressive disease. The proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (Velcade®) produces
responses in one-third of pre-treated patients. An open-label randomized
study of 669 patients with progressive myeloma after 1–3 prior therapies
has shown a benefit for bortezomib over high-dose dexamethasone. The
median TTP was 189 days versus 106 days, with an OS, at a median of
22mo of follow-up, of 29.8mo versus 23.7mo. Bortezomib is approved for
second-line therapy in the UK in patients who have received or are unsuitable for ASCT. Bortezomib is also regularly used as part of first-line therapy
when there is renal failure and other drugs are more difficult to apply.
The second-generation immunomodulatory drug lenalidomide, when
combined with dexamethasone, produced better TTP (11.3mo versus
4.7mo) and OS (35mo versus 31mo), compared to placebo and dexamethasone, in previously treated patients. It produces responses in patients who
have failed thalidomide. Lenalidomide with dexamethasone has a licence for
use in first relapse of myeloma in the UK and is currently being compared
as part of first-line therapy (CRD) against CTD in the NCRN Myeloma
XI trial.
Patients progressing after ASCT may benefit from a second high-dose
therapy and ASCT. Tandem transplants in close succession probably offer
little benefit over repeat ASCT at progression. The physical and psychological morbidity of two ASCTs needs to be taken into account.
Older therapies, including weekly cyclophosphamide and single-agent
dexamethasone, remain useful palliative treatments for some in the
advanced multiply treated setting.

599

600

Chapter 24

Haematological malignancies

Additional therapies
•	Pain control is very important. Analgesics, oral when possible, should
be given, as appropriate, for the level of pain. These range from regular
paracetamol to high doses of long-acting morphine, identified through
the titration of short-acting morphine. NSAIDs should be avoided
because of their potential renal toxicity.
• IFR is given for intractable bone pain and pressure effects such as cord
compression. Long bone fractures should be surgically stabilized and
then treated with IFR. Very precarious lytic lesions within long bones
may benefit from prophylactic surgical pinning.
• A recent promising surgical development is kyphoplasty, which allows
the re-expansion of collapsed vertebrae with a balloon, followed by the
support of the collapsed vertebrae with injectable cement.
•	EPO can be used to reduce transfusion requirements, with responses of
the order of 70%, especially in patients with renal failure. The cost has
limited its use within the UK, and recent concerns over the use of EPO
in solid tumours have led to added caution.

Prognosis
A number of prognostic factors have been identified to predict survival in
myeloma. A system based on β2-microglobulin levels and albumin has been
accepted as the international staging system for predicting prognosis (see
Table 24.13).
Table 24.13 New international staging system for myeloma
Criteria

Median survival (mo)

I. Serum β2-microglobulin <3.5mg/L
(296nmol/L) and serum albumin >3.5g/dL
(532 micromoles/L)

62

II. Neither I or IIIa

45

III. Serum β2-microglobulin >5.5mg/L
(465nmol/L)

29

 There are two subcategories: serum β2-microglobulin <3.5mg/L, but serum albumin <3.5g/
dL; or serum β2-microglobulin 3.5–5.5mg/L, irrespective of the serum albumin level.
a

Further reading

Further reading
Hoffbrand AV, Catovsky D, Tuddenham EGD, Green AR (eds.) (2010). Postgraduate haematology, 6th
edn. Oxford: Blackwell Publishing.
Swerlow SH, Campo E, Harris NL, et al. (eds.) (2008). WHO classification of tumours of haematopoietic and lymphoid tissues. Lyon: IARC Press.
Wiernick PH, Goldman JM, Dutcher JP, Kyle RA (eds.) (2013). Neoplastic diseases of the blood, 5th
edn. New York: Springer.

601

Chapter 25

Bone and soft tissue
malignancies
Reference centres for bone sarcomas 604
Osteosarcoma 606
Ewing’s sarcoma 612
Other primary bone tumours 616
Soft tissue sarcomas 620
Rhabdomyosarcoma 626

603

604

Chapter 25

Bone and soft tissue malignancies

Reference centres for bone sarcomas
Bone sarcomas are an uncommon group of malignancies, often requiring
complex multi-modality treatment, so that centralization of their management has been accepted in the UK for almost 30y.
All patients with a suspected bone sarcoma should be referred for diagnosis and have their care managed at a reference centre by a fully accredited MDT. This is a core principle of the NICE guidance ‘improving outcomes
for patients with sarcoma’. Currently, there are five such reference centres in
England.
This approach to the diagnosis of bone sarcomas avoids the risk of
improperly performed biopsies and allows increased use of molecular diagnostic techniques. Networks should ensure that GPs and hospital doctors
are aware of the referral criteria and referral pathways for suspected bone
sarcomas. Patients with a provisional diagnosis of bone sarcoma should
have their radiology and pathology reviewed by a specialist radiologist and
pathologist, members of the relevant sarcoma MDT.
Patients with a confirmed diagnosis of bone sarcoma have their care
supervised by the sarcoma MDT, with support from the relevant children’s
or teenage/young adult MDT, where appropriate, with surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy planned by the sarcoma MDT and delivered by
MDT-approved specialists. Many of these patients are best managed within
international clinical trials, in particular those with osteosarcoma or Ewing’s
tumour.

Reference centres for bone sarcomas

605

606

Chapter 25

Bone and soft tissue malignancies

Osteosarcoma
Epidemiology and aetiology
Malignant bone tumours are rare, around 600 new cases per annum in the
UK. They account for only 0.2% of all new cancers, but 5% of childhood
cancers and 15% of extracranial malignancies in adolescents. Osteosarcoma
is the commonest ° bone tumour, accounting for 20%.
• Bimodal distribution—75% under 20y, second peak >60y.
• Occurs predominantly in adolescence, with a peak incidence coinciding
with the growth spurt.
• Cases occurring over the age of 40y are usually associated with a
recognized predisposing lesion:
•	Paget’s disease
• irradiated bone
• multiple hereditary exostoses
• polyostotic fibrous dysplasia.
• ♂:♀ ratio 1.6:1.
• Usually arise in the metaphysis of long bones.
• 60% arise around the knee.

Pathology
• Composed of malignant spindle cells and osteoblasts that produce
osteoid or immature bone.
•	The ‘classic’ subtype is a central medullary tumour.
• Rarer types with a better prognosis include parosteal, periosteal, and
low-grade intraosseous osteosarcoma.
• Local invasion into the medulla and through the bony cortex.
• Soft tissue extension, less often joint space invasion.
• Vascular invasion is common.
•	Typical sites for metastatic disease are the lung and bone.
• 75% have occult or overt metastatic disease at presentation.

Genetics
Occasionally, associated with Li–Fraumeni syndrome (germline mutation of
p53) or hereditary retinoblastoma.

Presenting symptoms and signs
• Most present with pain at the tumour site.
• May have associated bone or soft tissue swelling.
• Overlying erythema and tenderness.
•	Pathological fracture infrequently.

Investigations
Plain X-rays of the affected area are often sufficient to suggest the diagnosis
of osteosarcoma. The classic radiological features of osteosarcoma are:
• poorly delineated or absent margins around the bone lesion
• periosteal reaction, usually non-continuous and thin, with multiple
laminations
• new bone formation with calcification of the matrix
• bone destruction.

Osteosarcoma

There are no specific tumour markers, but serum alkaline phosphatase is
elevated in 50% of cases.
NB Histological confirmation of the radiological diagnosis of a ° bone
tumour must be deferred, until the patient is assessed by a surgeon with
expertise in the management of bone malignancies.

Staging investigations
• MRI scan to assess the local extent of the tumour, intramedullary
tumour, skip metastases along the bone, and soft tissue extension.
• CT of the chest for lung metastasis.
• Isotope bone scan.
Several staging systems for bone tumours exist, the most commonly used
being that combining TNM staging and the pathological grade of the tumour
(see Table 25.1).
Table 25.1 Staging of bone tumours
Stage

T stage

N stage

M stage

Pathological grade

1A
1B

T1
T2

N0
N0

M0
M0

Low grade
Low grade

2A

T1

N0

M0

High grade

2B

T2

N0

M0

High grade

3

T3

N0

M0

Any grade

4A

Any T

N0

M1a

Any grade

4B

Any T
Any T

N1
N0

Any M
M1b

Any grade
Any grade

TNM staging
T0, no evidence of ° tumour
T1, tumour 8cm or less in maximum dimension
T2, tumour >8 cm in maximum dimension
T3, discontinuous tumours in the bone
N0, no regional lymph node metastasis
N1, regional lymph node metastasis
M0, no distant metastasis
M1a, pulmonary metastasis
M1b, extrapulmonary metastasis

607

608

Chapter 25

Bone and soft tissue malignancies

Management of patients with osteosarcoma
Surgical resection (usually amputation of a limb) alone was used to treat
osteosarcomas until the 1970s. The OS was only 15–20%, largely because
of pulmonary metastatic disease. Subsequent use of chemotherapy in the
adjuvant (post-operative) or neoadjuvant (pre- and post-operative) setting
has improved the 5y survival rate to 55–70%. Surgical management has also
improved in the past 30y, with amputation being replaced in the majority of
patients by limb-sparing surgery, usually with endoprosthetic replacement
of the resected bone. These prostheses are now customized to the individual patient. There are now detailed UK guidelines for the management
of osteosarcoma and other bone sarcomas.
Preoperative assessment
•	All patients with osteosarcoma should be managed within a specialist
bone tumour MDT setting.
•	A biopsy of the suspected osteosarcoma must be performed by an
orthopaedic specialist with experience of this technique. In 1990, only
20% of patients referred to MD Anderson Cancer Center had correctly
placed biopsy sites. Today, most patients have the biopsy performed by
a specialist, either an orthopaedic oncology surgeon or a radiologist.
• Ideally, the biopsy should be performed by the surgeon who will
undertake the definitive resection.
•	Trephine or core biopsy is recommended.
•	Potential tumour contamination of all tissue planes and compartments
traversed by the biopsy needle, so the biopsy tract will have to be removed
en bloc during the definitive resection, along with a cuff of healthy tissue.
•	An incorrectly sited biopsy may necessitate amputation, instead of
limb-sparing surgery.
•	Angiography may be necessary when limb-sparing procedure is planned
to determine the individual vascular pattern before resection, especially
with proximal tibial lesions.
Chemotherapy
The outcome for patients with osteosarcomas has been markedly improved
with the addition of chemotherapy to surgery. The most active agents are:
• doxorubicin
• cisplatin
• high-dose MTX
• ifosfamide.
Chemotherapy is commonly given pre- and post-operatively. This has several potential benefits:
• treatment starts without delay (the production of a customized
endoprosthesis takes several weeks)
• the tumour volume may be reduced by chemotherapy, making
surgery easier
• allows the pathological assessment of the response to chemotherapy
in the resected tumour, with the possibility of introducing alternative
cytotoxics post-operatively.
Typically, 2–3 cycles of chemotherapy are delivered, followed by surgery,
followed by a further 3–4 cycles of chemotherapy.

Osteosarcoma

Surgery
Sarcomas grow radially and produce a pseudocapsule. Osteosarcoma invariably spreads through the capsule, and expert surgery is necessary to ensure
en bloc resection with wide clear margins to remove all viable tumour.
Intralesional surgery is to be avoided for osteosarcoma, as it is associated
with a high risk of both local and distal recurrence.
As a result of advances in imaging, biomedical engineering, and preoperative chemotherapy, there has been a major shift away from amputation
for osteosarcoma. The majority of limb osteosarcomas are now treated
successfully with limb-sparing techniques. A wide variety of endoprosthetic
devices are available, including extendable prostheses for growing children.
In many specialist centres, allografts and metallic prostheses are used as
composites to obtain the best functional outcome.
Limb-sparing resection requires:
• no involvement of major neurovascular bundle
• wide resection of the affected bone
• en bloc removal of previous biopsy sites
• resection of the bone 4cm beyond the CT, MRI, bone scan uptake
evidence of the tumour
• resection of the adjacent joint
• adequate muscle reconstruction, with or without transfers.
Whilst vascular reconstruction is possible, having to sacrifice mixed nerves
is a limiting step in the functional preservation of the limb. Relative contraindications to limb-sparing surgery include major neurovascular involvement,
pathological fractures (tumour cells spread via the haematoma), infection,
and extensive muscle involvement.
A patient presenting following the excision of a tumour thought to be
benign but which turned out to be malignant on histology should be considered for further limb salvage surgery.
Radiotherapy
Osteosarcomas are relatively radioresistant tumours. Radiotherapy is rarely
used in the ° treatment of this disease. Its use is limited to:
• high-dose palliative treatment for patients who refuse surgery or for
axial osteosarcomas that are not resectable
• adjuvant therapy after surgery and chemotherapy when excision has
been marginal
• palliative treatment of bone metastases.
Metastatic osteosarcoma
Around 15% of new cases have metastatic disease at presentation. With
combination chemotherapy, followed by resection of the ° and, when feasible, resection of metastatic disease, long-term survival can be achieved
in 20 –30%.
Careful follow-up of patients with localized disease is essential. In general,
patients will be reviewed at least 3-monthly in the first 2y, 4-monthly in
years 3 and 4, and 6–12-monthly in years 5–10. Each follow-up will include
a review of ongoing/new problems, a physical examination, an assessment
of the limb function and late toxicities, and a CXR.

609

610

Chapter 25

Bone and soft tissue malignancies

• Most patients who relapse have pulmonary metastases, and, in 760%,
the lungs are the only site of disease.
• Up to 43% of relapsing patients may be salvaged by surgical resection of
the metastases.
• Metastasectomy may be considered for multiple and bilateral lung
deposits and on >1 occasion. However, the long-term results of
pulmonary metastasectomy for sarcomas (bone and soft tissue) remain
inconclusive.
• Local recurrences are managed by surgical resection (usually
amputation) or palliative irradiation.
•	The role of chemotherapy after surgery for relapsed disease is
uncertain.
•	The outcome of palliative treatment with second-line chemotherapy for
unresectable tumours is poor.

Treatment outcomes and prognostic factors
• Operable localized disease—60–70% 5y survival:
• limb conservation does not compromise survival, compared with
amputation.
• Metastatic disease—10–30% 5y survival.
• Better prognosis with limb versus axial °.
•	Tumour size similarly influences survival.
• Response to chemotherapy:
• a good response of >95% cell kill in the resected specimen conveys
a 5y survival of 80% and is seen in 760% of patients with current
regimens
• a poor response to chemotherapy conveys a 5y survival of 40–50%.

Recent developments
A worldwide cooperative study, examining the benefits of maintenance IFN
after MAP (high-dose MTX, doxorubicin, cisplatin) chemotherapy and of
chemotherapy intensification, with the addition of ifosfamide and etoposide
in poorly responding tumours after surgery—the EURAMOS-1 (European
and American Osteosarcoma Study Group) trial—completed recruitment
of more than 2200 cases in 2011, but analysis of the poorly responding
tumour group shows no benefit from post-operative treatment including
ifosfamide and etoposide. Muramyl tripeptide phosphatidyl-ethanolamine
(MTP-PE) is a synthetic lipophilic analogue of muramyl dipeptide, which is
a component of the cell wall of BCG. MTP-PE has been encapsulated in
liposomes and appears to enhance the efficacy of post-operative chemotherapy for osteosarcoma. This agent and the bisphosphonate zoledronic
acid are likely candidates for trial in the next study.

Osteosarcoma

611

612

Chapter 25

Bone and soft tissue malignancies

Ewing’s sarcoma
First described by James Ewing, a New York pathologist, in 1926. This is
another rare, but highly malignant, ° bone tumour. Until the introduction
of combination chemotherapy in the 1970s, 90% of patients with this diagnosis died, usually from metastatic disease.

Epidemiology and aetiology
•	Annual incidence of 0.6 per million.
• 6–10% of all ° bone tumours.
• Less common in non-Caucasians.
•	Peak age 10–20y.
•	The aetiology is unknown.
• Not associated with cancer family syndromes.
• May affect any bone; 55% arise in the axial skeleton.
• May also arise in soft tissue.

Pathology
The Ewing’s sarcoma family of tumours includes:
• Ewing’s tumour of the bone
• peripheral PNET
•	Askin tumour (arising on the chest wall).
They are believed to arise from neural crest cells. Microscopy shows small
round blue cells, with rosette formation and positive staining for:
• MIC2 (CD99)
• neural markers (NSE, S100)
• glycogen (periodic acid–Schiff, PAS).
Typically, they arise in the diaphysis of long bones or in flat bones, e.g. the
pelvis, invade through the medulla, but also extend through the cortex to
form a significant soft tissue extraosseous mass in at least 50%. Blood-borne
spread to the lung and bone is common, and 20–25% have overt metastases
at presentation. Microscopic systemic disease is present in the majority of
patients with radiologically localized disease.

Genetics
More than 95% have rearrangement of chromosome 22 involving the
EWSR1 gene, usually an 11;22 translocation, to produce an oncogenic transcription factor.

Presenting symptoms and signs
•	Painful bony swelling.
• Overlying tissues warm and red.
•	Axial lesions may cause pain with compression of the abdominal organs,
urinary tract, or nerve.
• 10% have fever and a hot swollen limb, mimicking osteomyelitis.

Investigations
•	Plain X-ray typically shows a destructive, osteolytic lesion, with
periosteal elevation, although 25% have a sclerotic component.

Ewing’s sarcoma

• MRI scan demonstrates both an osseous and extraosseous disease
extent.
• May have anaemia, elevated ESR/C-reactive protein (CRP), and
high LDH.
•	Patients with suspected bone malignancy must be referred to an
orthopaedic oncologist for biopsy—an inappropriate biopsy siting
can result in tumour spillage and unnecessary requirement for limb
amputation.
• Core biopsy, with material sent fresh to the laboratory to allow
cytogenetics.

Staging
• CT of the chest and abdomen.
• Isotope bone scan.
• MRI of the ° lesion and any hot spots identified on bone scan, with an
estimate of the ° tumour volume.
• Bone marrow aspirate (× 2) and trephine from sites distant from known
disease.
Prior to therapy, tests of normal organ function should include:
•	FBC and biochemistry
• renal function (ethylenediaminetetra-acetic acid (EDTA) clearance)
• ECG and left ventricular ejection fraction (MUGA test or
echocardiogram)
• pulmonary function tests
• viral titres.

Management of Ewing’s tumours
All patients should be managed in a cancer centre with appropriate multidisciplinary expertise and experience. They should, wherever possible, be
treated within multi-institutional trials, currently in Europe the Euro-Ewing
99 study.
Broadly, management consists of:
• initial chemotherapy, e.g. six cycles of VIDE—vincristine, ifosfamide,
doxorubicin, etoposide
• local therapy to the ° tumour, e.g. surgery, radiotherapy, or both
(chemotherapy continues, concomitant with radiotherapy)
• further chemotherapy (up to another eight cycles of conventional
chemotherapy or high-dose therapy with peripheral blood stem cell
support).
Chemotherapy
Over the last 20y, dose intensification and incorporation of new cytotoxics
have led to significant improvement in the outcome of treatment, but at the
cost of significant toxicities.
• Venous access requires a Hickman line, Portacath, or portable intensive
care (PIC) line.
•	Profound myelosuppression occurs in all patients during chemotherapy.
•	The risk of neutropenic sepsis is reduced by the prophylactic use of
G-CSF and antibiotics.
• Pneumocystis jiroveci prophylaxis is required.

613

614

Chapter 25

Bone and soft tissue malignancies

•	Febrile neutropenia must be treated promptly with broad-spectrum
antibiotics.
• Close attention to hydration, anti-emetics, and mouth care.
• Careful monitoring of renal, hepatic, and cardiac function.
• Risk of graft-versus-host reaction; blood products must be irradiated
before use, and leucocyte filters used for transfusion.
•	These young patients require considerable psychosocial and educational
support.
Local therapy of the primary tumour
Surgery should be considered in all cases, and, if it is possible to remove
the entire tumour without undue mutilation, then it is the local treatment
of choice. In the North American COG trial, 65% of patients were treated
by means of surgery alone as local treatment. Surgical developments mean
that there are few bones in the body that are not amenable to surgery,
including the pelvis.
Radiotherapy may be used as an adjuvant to surgery when excision
margins are close (44–54Gy in 1.8Gy fractions), this combined approach
accounting for 15% of patients. In the remaining 20% with opposition to
amputation or in whom the tumours were deemed not resectable, radiotherapy alone may be employed (54–64Gy) The volume irradiated includes
the original tumour with 2–5cm margins, often shrinking the volume
after 44Gy.
Management of metastatic disease
Patients presenting with metastatic disease are managed initially, as
described earlier, with induction chemotherapy, followed by local therapy
to the ° tumour.
•	Patients with lung metastases may then be treated with conventional
chemotherapy and whole-lung irradiation (18Gy in ten fractions) or
high-dose chemotherapy, e.g. busulfan and melphalan, with peripheral
blood stem cell support.
•	Patients with bone or marrow metastases have a poorer prognosis, and
high-dose chemotherapy may be considered for many of these.
Follow-up and management of disease recurrence
These patients require careful and regular multidisciplinary follow-up,
in order to pick up on any late toxicities of treatment, as well as disease
recurrence. Local recurrence in the absence of metastatic disease may be
salvaged by surgery, and similarly isolated lung metastasis should be considered for pulmonary resection. Most recurrences are, however, unresectable, and, for these, further chemotherapy should be considered, ideally
within a clinical trial.

Treatment outcomes and prognostic factors
• 5y survival:
• localized disease, 55–65%
• metastatic disease, 10–20%
• lung only metastases, 30%.

Ewing’s sarcoma

The major prognostic factors are:
• metastases at presentation
• the site and volume of the °:
• tumour <100mL in a long bone, 80% 5y survival
• pelvic tumour, 30% 5y survival
• the pathological response to chemotherapy
• local therapy (surgery better than radiotherapy).

Late effects
• Cardiomyopathy (anthracyclines).
• Nephrotoxicity (ifosfamide).
• Infertility.
• Second malignancy (leukaemia, osteosarcoma).

615

616

Chapter 25

Bone and soft tissue malignancies

Other primary bone tumours
Most often malignant fibrous histiocytoma, but other pathologies include
liposarcoma, angiosarcoma, leiomyosarcoma, and haemangiopericytoma.
•	All are rare, <1% of all bone tumours.
•	Arise in any bone (usually the metaphysis of a long bone).
• Occur mainly in middle age.
• Can occur after a previous insult to the bone, e.g. ionizing radiation,
bone infarct, or fibrous dysplasia.
The treatment is surgical removal of all disease, but, as with osteosarcoma,
limb-sparing surgery and insertion of a customized endoprosthesis may be
feasible. The role of adjuvant chemotherapy has been established in malignant fibrous histiocytoma, using agents including doxorubicin and cisplatin,
or ifosfamide in preoperative therapy, with positive results. Greater than
90% necrosis in the resected bone is reported after chemotherapy in 740%.
Metastatic disease may require:
• lung resection for solitary metastasis
• palliative chemotherapy using the above agents.

Chondrosarcoma
• Cartilage-forming malignancy.
•	Tumours of middle to late age.
• Second commonest ° bone tumour (720%).
•	Typically presents with a painful enlarging mass in the pelvis, proximal
femur, humerus, or ribs; unusual in distal bones.
•	The grade is a good guide to behaviour, although about 10% of
low-grade tumours transform to a higher grade.
• Surgical resection remains the mainstay of treatment. For intermediate-and
high-grade lesions, en bloc excision, with limb conservation whenever
possible, is the optimal treatment. For low-grade lesions, extensive
intralesional curettage, followed by local treatment with phenol or
cryosurgery and filling of the cavity with bone graft, has shown promising
long-term results, in terms of function and oncological outcomes.
• No proven role for adjuvant chemotherapy.
• Radiotherapy after incomplete resection or palliation of advanced disease.
• Grade 1, 5y survival of 90%; grade 3, 40%.
• Metastatic disease is difficult to manage unless confined to 1-3 lung
metastases amenable to surgical removal. Metastatic chondrosarcoma is
resistant to conventional chemotherapy agents (doxorubicin, cisplatin).
Some tumours are ER-positive and may respond to anti-oestrogen
therapy.

Chordoma
• Slow-growing tumour that arises from notochord remnants.
•	Accounts for 2–4% of ° bone tumours.
• Sited in the sacrum/coccyx (50%), skull base/clivus (35%), or upper
cervical vertebrae.
•	Presents in middle age with persistent pain.
• Often only discovered on CT or MRI after ‘normal’ plain X-rays of
the bone.

Other primary bone tumours

• Metastases are rare (lung or bone)
• Survival determined by the success or failure of local control.
• Surgery is the treatment of choice but may not be feasible due to the
location of the tumour. It is important to ensure that the ° surgery
achieves clear margins, as local recurrence rates are high.
• Sacrococcygeal lesions are best treated by a combined abdominoperineal
approach, with excision of the sacrum one level higher than the lesion.
• Radiotherapy (55–60Gy) after incomplete resection or as palliation.
It is also provided routinely to lesions of the base of the skull and the
spheno-occipital region.
•	Particle therapy with protons has shown promise and should be
considered for unresectable and incompletely resected lesions.
• 30–50% survive 5y, but late recurrences are possible.

Solitary plasmacytoma
• Isolated painful lytic bone lesion, rich in plasma cells.
•	Age 50–60y, ♂ > ♀ (2:1).
• Diagnosis depends on the exclusion of myeloma (no other skeletal
lesions, no hypercalcaemia, no suppression of other immunoglobulins,
and bone marrow contains <5% plasma cells).
•	Paraproteinaemia is common.
•	Treatment is with radiotherapy (40–45Gy).
•	Prognosis is good; median survival of 10y.
•	Follow-up important, as 50% developed multiple myeloma.

Primary bone lymphoma
• 3% of ° bone tumours; 2% of all NHL cases.
•	Age 50–70y.
•	Painful lytic or mixed lytic sclerotic bone lesion.
• Core biopsy shows malignant, small, round, dark cell tumours of the
bone (differentiate from, e.g. Ewing’s, metastatic neuroblastoma).
• Staging with CT, bone scan, and bone marrow examination is required
to exclude systemic lymphoma.
• Localized high-grade NHL is treated with initial chemotherapy, together
with radiotherapy (see Chapter 24).
•	The role of surgery in lymphoma is limited. It may be considered in truly
isolated lesions, in which case limb-sparing surgery and endoprosthesis
insertion may be considered. Prostheses are particularly useful in long
weight-bearing bones where there is otherwise a high risk of fracture.
Surgery has also been advocated for residual or recurrent disease,
following radiation, and in the treatment of pathological fractures.
• 5y survival of 60%.

Metastatic bone disease
In adult patients, metastatic carcinomas considerably outnumber ° bone
tumours, but, where there is any diagnostic uncertainty, e.g. a solitary bone
lesion in the absence of other metastatic disease in a patient previously
treated for a localized cancer, referral for a biopsy to exclude ° bone sarcoma is appropriate. Management of metastatic bone disease is dependent
on the ° pathology (see relevant chapters for metastatic prostate, breast,
lung cancer, etc.).

617

618

Chapter 25

Bone and soft tissue malignancies

Further reading
Burchill SA (2008). Molecular abnormalities in Ewing’s sarcoma. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther 8,
1675–87.
Fuchs B, Ossendorf C, Leerapun T, Sim FH (2008). Intercalary segmental reconstruction after bone
tumour resection. Eur J Surg Oncol 34, 1271–6.
Gobel V, Jurgens H, Etspuler G, et al. (1987). Prognostic significance of tumor volume in localized
Ewing’s sarcoma of bone in children and adolescents. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol 113, 187–91.
Granowetter L, Womer R, Devidas M, et al. (2009). Dose-intensified compared with standard
chemotherapy for nonmetastatic Ewing sarcoma family of tumors: a Children’s Oncology Group
Study. J Clin Oncol 27, 2536–41.
Grimer RJ (2005). Surgical options for children with osteosarcomas. Lancet Oncol 6, 85–92.
Grimer R, Athanasou N, Gerrand C, et al. (2010). UK Guidelines for the Management of Bone
Sarcomas. Sarcoma 2010, 317462.
Hogendoorn PC, ESMO/EUROBONET Working Group (2010). Bone sarcomas: ESMO Clinical
Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol 21 (Suppl 5), v204–13.
Iwamoto Y (2007). Diagnosis and treatment of Ewing’s sarcoma. Jpn J Clin Oncol 37, 79–89.
Kelley SP, Ashford RU, Rao AS, Dickson RA (2007). Primary bone tumours of the spine: a 42-year
survey from the Leeds Regional Bone Tumour Registry. Eur Spine J 16, 405–9.
Lietman SA, Joyce MJ (2010). Bone sarcomas: overview of management, with a focus on surgical
treatment considerations. Cleve Clin J Med 77 (Supp 1), 8–12.
Meyers PA, Schwartz CL, Krailo MD, et al. (2008). Osteosarcoma: the addition of muramyl tripeptide
to chemotherapy improves overall survival: a report from the Children’s Oncology Group. J Clin
Oncol 26, 633–8.
Paulussen M, Bielack S, Jurgens H, Jost L (2009). Ewing’s sarcoma of the bone: ESMO clinical recommendations for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol 20 (Suppl 4), 140–2.
Ritter J, Bielack SS (2010). Osteosarcoma. Ann Oncol 21 (Suppl 7), 320–5.
Schuck A, Ahrens S, Paulussen M, et al. (2003). Local therapy in localized Ewing tumors: results of
1058 patients treated in the CESS 81, CESS 86, and EICESS 92 trials. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys
55, 168–77.
Scully SP, Temple HT, O’Keefe RJ, Scarborough MT, Mankin HJ, Gebhardt MC (1995). Role of surgical
resection in pelvic Ewing’s sarcoma. J Clin Oncol 13, 2336–41.
Skubitz KM, D’Adamo DR (2007). Sarcoma. Mayo Clin Proc 82, 1409–32.
Treasure T, Fiorention F, Scarci M, Møller H, Utley M (2012). Pulmonary metastatectomy for sarcoma: a systematic review of reported outcomes in the context of Thames Cancer Registry data.
BMJ Open 2, pii, e001736.

Other primary bone tumours

619

620

Chapter 25

Bone and soft tissue malignancies

Soft tissue sarcomas
Epidemiology
• Rare; 71200 cases per annum in the UK.
• 1% of adult cancers, 6% childhood cancers.
• 15% occur in children; fourth commonest childhood cancer.
•	Age distribution depends on the pathology:
• rhabdomyosarcoma in children/young adults
• synovial sarcoma in young adults
• MFH and liposarcoma in older adults.

Aetiology
• Genetic associations:
• neurofibromatosis type 1 predisposes to malignant peripheral nerve
sheath tumour
• hereditary retinoblastoma;
• Li–Fraumeni syndrome (germline mutation of p53).
• Radiation exposure, usually therapeutic many years previously, e.g.
angiosarcoma following breast irradiation.
• Rarely, chemical exposure (vinyl chloride, herbicides, dioxins).

Pathology
Although the histological classification is complex, staging and management
are similar for most. Histological grading is crucial. Low-grade sarcomas
rarely metastasize, grow slowly with the development of a pseudo-capsule,
and may be dealt with successfully by surgery alone. High-grade sarcomas
are locally invasive, may recur after surgery, and metastasize typically to the
lung by blood-borne spread. High-grade tumours account for 50% of sarcomas, and, of these, 50% die of metastatic disease. Lymphatic spread is less
common but may occur in epithelioid or synovial sarcoma or rhabdomyosarcoma. Fresh tissue for cytogenetic analysis may assist in the classification
of soft tissue sarcomas (see Table 25.2).

Presenting symptoms and signs
• Most present with a painless soft tissue mass.
• 45% lower limb, 15% upper limb, 10% head and neck, 15% retroperitoneal.
•	Any enlarging mass, deep to the deep fascia, should be regarded as a
potential sarcoma.
•	However, up to 30% of soft tissue sarcomas are subcutaneous.

Investigations
• Imaging with MRI to assess the local extent of the tumour mass and its
relationship to adjacent structures, including blood vessels and nerves.
• CXR and CT of the chest, looking for lung metastases.
• Core biopsy and imaging should be performed, before an attempt is
made to excise any potentially malignant soft tissue tumour. The only
exception to this rule may be retroperitoneal and pelvic sarcomas where
a core biopsy may carry the risk of tumour spillage and spread.
• Multidisciplinary planning of individual patients’ management is crucial,
involving the pathologist, radiologist, site specialist surgeons, and clinical
and medical oncologist.

Soft tissue sarcomas

Pathological classification of soft-tissue sarcomas
•	Alveolar soft part sarcoma (ASPS).
•	Angiosarcoma.
• Clear cell sarcoma.
• Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP).
• Desmoplastic small round cell tumour.
• Epithelioid sarcoma.
• Extraosseous Ewing’s tumour.
• Extraskeletal chondrosarcoma.
• Extraskeletal osteosarcoma.
•	Fibrosarcoma.
• Gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST.
• Kaposi’s sarcoma.
• Leiomyosarcoma.
• Liposarcoma.
• Malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH).
• Malignant giant cell tumour of the tendon sheath.
• Malignant haemangiopericytoma.
• Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumour (MPNST).
• Malignant solitary fibrous tumour.
• Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS).

Table 25.2 Cytogenetic abnormalities in sarcomas and the genes
involved
Sarcoma

Translocation

Genes involved

Ewing’s tumours

11;22

EWS-Fli1

Liposarcoma (myxoid and round cell)

12;16

TLS (FUS)-CHOP

Synovial sarcoma

x;18

SYT-SSX1 and 2

Rhabdomyosarcoma (alveolar)

2;13

PAX3-FKHR

Clear cell sarcoma

12;22

EWS-ATF1

621

622

Chapter 25

Bone and soft tissue malignancies

Staging system
• Combination of grading, tumour size, and evidence of metastatic spread
(see Table 25.3).
•	The ° tumour is staged by size:
•	T1 <5cm
•	T2 >5cm.
Table 25.3 Staging of soft tissue sarcomas
Stage
groupings

Tumour
grade

1° tumour

Lymph node
status

Metastasis

I

G1

T1–2

N0

M0

II

G2

T1–2

N0

M0

III

G3

T1–2

N0

M0

IVA

Any

Any

N1

M0

IVB

Any

Any

N0

M1

Management of soft-tissue sarcomas
There are now comprehensive guidelines for the management of soft tissue
sarcomas.
Surgery
Ideally, localized sarcomas are managed by complete surgical excision with
clear margins and en bloc removal of any biopsy tract. Sarcomas are now
referred to regional specialist units if surgical management is being considered. For limb tumours, surgery is classified, according to its extent, by the
Enneking criteria:
• intralesional or intracapsular—the excision passes through the tumour
with involved margins, and the risk of local recurrence approaches
100%; most commonly, such procedures are performed without a
preoperative diagnosis of sarcoma and without preoperative imaging.
The outcome for patients managed in this way is significantly poorer
than with appropriately planned radical excision. They require urgent
referral to an orthopaedic oncologist, usually for staging and imaging of
local residual disease and more radical surgery
• marginal—tumour shelled out through the pseudo-capsule; recurrence
rate of 20–70%, depending on the tumour pathology
• wide excision—wide margin of local tissue removed, along with the
tumour; adequate for low-grade sarcoma, but up to 30% recurrence
rate with high-grade disease, usually due to unsuspected non-contiguous
tumour extension beyond the surgical field
• radical excision—en bloc dissection of the tumour and muscular
compartment; low risk of local recurrence but may lead to unacceptable
loss of function. Resection limits of 2cm of uninvolved tissue are now
adequate (previously, attempts were made to excise full muscle from
the origin to insertion). Skin and bony involvement are unusual

Soft tissue sarcomas

• limb amputation—infrequently indicated, if the disease cannot be
completely excised with conservation of a functional limb. The
amputation rate was 50% in the 1960s and is now 5%. Current data
at 10y show that, whilst local recurrence is higher with limb salvage
surgery, there is no difference in the DFS.
For the majority of soft tissue sarcomas arising at other sites, surgery is
the mainstay of local treatment. Locally advanced disease not amenable
to ° surgery may be treated with preoperative radiotherapy or chemotherapy in order to facilitate resection. Surgery may also be appropriate
for local recurrence and metastatic disease, in particular solitary pulmonary
metastasis.
Chemotherapy
The majority of adult soft tissue sarcomas are only moderately chemosensitive. The most active agents are doxorubicin and ifosfamide, with response
rates of 10–30% to these agents, either singly or in combination, in advanced
disease. The role of adjuvant chemotherapy remains controversial, with little evidence to support its use in an effort to improve cure rates. For some
specific pathologies (e.g. extraosseous Ewing’s/PNET), chemotherapy has
a major impact on survival; the benefits of chemotherapy in other adult
sarcomas are less clear. A meta-analysis has examined data from 14 trials
involving >1500 patients. Although adjuvant chemotherapy reduces the risk
of disease recurrence (by 10% at 10y), no significant survival benefit has
been demonstrated. Progress in this field is likely to be dependent on an
improved understanding of the biological differences between the various
pathologies and the individualization of therapy, according to molecular predictors of behaviour and response to treatment.
Radiotherapy
Most adult soft tissue sarcomas are only moderately radiosensitive. The
most important role for radiotherapy is in the post-operative adjuvant setting, particularly for high-grade sarcomas treated by wide excision. Even
when excision margins are clear, non-contiguous microscopic residual
tumour may be present within the muscle compartment. Post-operative
radiotherapy to the conserved limb may be delivered using a shrinking field
technique—phase I 50Gy/25 fractions, phase II 10–16Gy. A strip of normal
tissue along the length of the limb should be left unirradiated to reduce the
risk of chronic lymphoedema. Lower doses of radiation are given following the resection of retroperitoneal sarcomas, limited by the normal tissue
tolerance of the abdominal contents (e.g. 50Gy/25 fractions). A number of
investigators are examining the potential benefits of intraoperative radiotherapy after resection of sarcomas at a number of sites.
Targeted therapies
GISTs are the commonest sarcomas in the GI tract and account for 5% of
soft tissue sarcomas.
• Incidence of 10–20 per million.
• 20–30% malignant.
• Most commonly arise in the stomach or small bowel.
• Rarely familial or associated with neurofibromatosis type 1 or
Carney’s triad.

623

624

Chapter 25

Bone and soft tissue malignancies

•	The majority have a gain-of-function mutation in the proto-oncogenes
c-kit or PDGFRα, leading to the constitutive activation of their
receptor TK.
• Imatinib inhibits KIT and PDGFRα TK.
• Surgery is the mainstay treatment of GISTs, and complete resection is
the only potentially curative therapy. As the tumour rarely metastasizes
to lymph nodes, nodal dissection is not required, and organ-sparing
surgery is often possible.
• In a study of 127 patents, the 5y recurrence-free survival was 63%.
•	Factors associated with recurrence include tumour size >10cm, mitotic
rate of 5/50 high power fields, and tumour originating from the small
intestine.
• Intraperitoneal rupture or bleeding are associated with local recurrence
rates of close to 100%.
• Inoperable recurrence or metastatic disease is unresponsive to
conventional chemotherapy, with a median survival of 10–20mo.
•	The objective response rate in such patients treated with imatinib
400mg daily is 750%, with a median survival time of >3y.
• Common mild/moderate toxicities—oedema, anaemia, nausea,
lethargy, diarrhoea, skin rash, myelosuppression.
• Imatinib-resistant disease can respond to increased-dose imatinib (albeit
with increased toxicity).
• Some evidence that even resistant disease benefits from continued therapy,
with a rapid acceleration of tumour growth after cessation of imatinib.
• Other receptor TK-targeted agents, e.g. sunitinib, have demonstrated
activity in imatinib-refractory disease. Regorafenib targets several TK
signalling pathways and has also shown promise in advanced GIST
refractory to imatinib and sunitinib.
• Individualization of therapy may be possible in the next few years,
according to the mutation of c-kit.
•	Trials of adjuvant therapy have been completed, and, following resection
of high-risk GIST (based on the tumour size and mitotic count), adjuvant
imatinib is recommended to be prescribed for 3y (approved by SMC,
but not by NICE).
• Imatinib also active against unresectable dermatofibrosarcoma
protruberans (DFSP).

Treatment outcome and prognostic factors for soft tissue
sarcomas
Treatment outcomes worse with:
• large tumours
• deep versus superficial tumours
• high-grade sarcoma
• intralesional excision
• visceral/retroperitoneal versus limb °
• metastatic disease at presentation.
Overall, the 5y survival is around 70%, but 50% for stage III, and around 20%
for stage IV. Patients who relapse with only pulmonary metastasis may be
cured by metastasectomy.

Soft tissue sarcomas

625

626

Chapter 25

Bone and soft tissue malignancies

Rhabdomyosarcoma
• Commonest soft tissue tumour in childhood and adolescence.
• >50% in children under 10y.
• Rare in adults over 40y.
• ♂:♀ ratio 1.3:1.
•	Arises from primitive mesenchymal cells with the capacity for
rhabdomyoblastic development.
• Commonest sites of origin are:
• the head and neck
• the genitourinary tract
• retroperitoneal
• the extremities.
•	The disease is locally invasive (e.g. spreads from the orbit to the
meninges and CNS).
• Disseminates to the lymph nodes, lungs, bones, marrow, and brain.
•	Aggressive malignancy requiring multi-modality treatment.
•	The outlook depends on the disease site and histological subtype.
•	All cases should be managed by an experienced sarcoma MDT within a
cancer centre.

Diagnosis
•	Presents with soft tissue swelling or other local symptoms, e.g.
displacement of the eye, vaginal bleeding, or dysuria.
•	For histological diagnosis, it is advisable to obtain fresh tissue for
chromosomal studies.

Embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma
•	About 60% of cases.
• Mainly in children under 15y.
•	Head and neck (including orbit), genitourinary tract, retroperitoneal.
• Spectrum of cells, from primitive round cells to rhabdomyoblasts.
• Botryoid rhabdomyosarcoma is a subtype characterized by polypoid
growth, like a ‘bunch of grapes’, usually found in hollow organs, e.g.
vagina, bladder, and nasopharyngeal sinuses.

Alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma
•	Poorly differentiated round or oval cells, forming irregular spaces and
separated by fibrous septae, giving the appearance of ‘alveoli’.
• Sometimes this appearance is absent, but the uniform appearance of the
cells is distinct from that of the embryonal variety.
• Diagnosis may be confirmed by the presence of a t(2;13) (q37;q14) or
variant t(1;13) (p36;q14) chromosomal translocation.
• Significantly worse prognosis than embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma.

Pleomorphic rhabdomyosarcoma
• Rare adult soft tissue tumour.
• Behaves similarly to other adult soft tissue sarcomas.
• May be curable, if localized, with surgery and radiotherapy.
•	Poor prognosis for locally advanced or metastatic disease.

Rhabdomyosarcoma

Table 25.4 Prognostic factors in rhabdomyosarcoma
Good

Poor

Orbit, paratesticular, vagina, extremities

Parameningeal, retroperitoneal

Localized to tissue of origin

Contiguous spread, nodal or
metastatic disease

Complete resection feasible

Unresectable

Embryonal histology

Alveolar histology

Infant or child

Adult

Complete response to chemotherapy

Poor response to chemotherapy

Staging
• MRI or CT of the ° site.
• CT scan of the thorax.
• Isotope bone scan.
• Bone marrow aspirate and trephine.
• Stage is usually assigned using the SIOP–International Union Against
Cancer (UICC) TNM (tumour, nodes, metastases) staging system.

Prognostic factors
The prognosis in rhabdomyosarcoma depends on the pathology, site, size,
extent of spread, and response to chemotherapy (see Table 25.4). Overall,
the 5y survival has improved considerably, from 25% in the 1960s to 70%
currently, largely through the introduction of systemic chemotherapy.

Management
Treatment is tailored according to the prognosis, balancing the need for
effective local and systemic treatment against the late morbidity, particularly
of radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
Chemotherapy
• Often given as neoadjuvant therapy prior to definitive local surgery.
• Vincristine and dactinomycin only for good-prognosis disease.
• Other drugs added for worse-prognosis disease (e.g. ifosfamide,
doxorubicin).
•	High-dose chemotherapy may have a role in metastatic disease.
Local treatment
• Surgery, with complete removal of all local disease and lymph node
sampling, is the optimal therapy. Extensive surgery involving significant
morbidity is not essential in embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma, as this
tumour is radio- and chemosensitive.
• Surgery may not be feasible because of the tumour extent or because it
may lead to unacceptable mutilation/loss of function.
• Given concomitant with chemotherapy, radiotherapy doses of 40–50Gy
will achieve local disease control.

627

628

Chapter 25

Bone and soft tissue malignancies

•	However, serious long-term sequelae are associated with the
combined-modality treatment in children:
• late damage to sensitive organs, e.g. bladder, eye, brain, testis, ovary,
thyroid
• risk of second malignancy
• impaired bone growth.
• Radiotherapy may be safely omitted in infants and children with localized
favourable-prognosis disease, e.g. embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma of
the orbit.
• Extremity tumours, alveolar histology, and parameningeal tumours
require radiotherapy.

Further reading
Casali PG, Jost L, Sleijfer S, Verweij J, Blay JY; ESMO Guidelines Working Group (2008). Soft tissue
sarcomas: ESMO clinical recommendations for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol 19
(Suppl 2), ii89–93.
Dematteo RP, Gold JS, Saran L, et al. (2008). Tumor mitotic rate, size, and location independently
predict recurrence after resection of primary gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST). Cancer 112,
608–15.
Enneking WF, Soanier SS, Goodman MA (1980). A system for the surgical staging of musculoskeletal
sarcoma. Clin Orthop Relat Res 153, 106–20.
Grimer R, Judson I, Peake D, Seddon B (2010). Guidelines for the management of soft tissue sarcomas. Sarcoma 2010, 506182.
Lietman SA (2010). Soft-tissue sarcomas: overview of management with a focus on surgical treatment considerations. Cleve Clin J Med 77 (Suppl 1), 13–17.
Siegel HJ, Sessions W, Casillas MA, Said-Al-Naief N, Lander PH, Lopez-Ben R (2007). Synovial sarcoma: clinicopathologic features, treatment, and prognosis. Orthopedics 30, 1020–5.

Chapter 26

Malignancy of unknown
primary
Definitions 630
Epidemiology and aetiology 631
Pathology 632
Management aims 634
Investigation of metastases to lymph nodes and peritoneum 636
Investigation of metastases to other sites 638
Investigation of a pleural effusion 640
Management of carcinoma of unknown primary 642
Further reading 644

629

630

Chapter 26

Malignancy of unknown primary

Definitions
In order to standardize the approach to the patient with malignant disease
of unknown origin, NICE has produced clinical guidelines (see E Further
reading, p. 644). The aim was to define the clinical entity and optimize
patient investigation and management. The following definitions have been
set out:
• malignancy of unknown primary (MUP)—‘metastatic malignancy, identified
on clinical examination or imaging, without an obvious primary site’
• provisional carcinoma of unknown primary (provisional CUP)—‘metastatic
malignancy of proven epithelial, neuro-endocrine or undifferentiated
lineage, after initial but not exhaustive investigations’
• confirmed carcinoma of unknown primary (confirmed CUP)—‘metastatic
malignancy of proven epithelial, neuro-endocrine or undifferentiated
lineage, after completion of all appropriate tests’.

Epidemiology and aetiology

Epidemiology and aetiology
• Common oncological problem representing up to 10% of all referrals.
• 710 500 cases of CUP in England and Wales per year (Cancer Research
UK data).
• Fourth commonest cause of cancer death.
• ♂ > ♀.
•	The median age at presentation is 760y.
•	Third commonest cancer presentation in those aged ≥70y. Rare if
aged ≤40y.
•	The clinical presentation is usually with symptoms arising from the site
of metastasis.
• Undetected ° site most likely due to unusual metastatic potential of
the tumour. Occasionally, there has been regression of the ° (well
recognized in melanoma). The ° may remain undetected, even after
post-mortem examination (25%).
•	The pattern of metastatic disease is often very different from cases
where the ° site is known, e.g. lung cancer causes bone metastases ten
times more often when the ° site is known than when the lung cancer
is occult.
• Median survival of 4mo in most series. However, some clinical scenarios
are associated with much longer survival, and it is these that are
important to identify.
•	The diagnosis encompasses tumours from many ° sites with varying
biologies.

Favourable prognostic factors
• ♀ sex.
• Fewer sites of metastatic disease, especially lymph node/soft tissue,
rather than liver/bone.
•	Good performance status.
• Normal serum LDH, albumin, and WCC.

631

632

Chapter 26

Malignancy of unknown primary

Pathology
• Causes include:
• carcinomas, including:
— adenocarcinoma
— SCCs
— neuroendocrine tumours
— germ cell tumours
• melanoma (in 5% of cases, no ° is identified)
• lymphoma.

Light microscopy
Light microscopy can help identify:
• Carcinomas, including:
• adenocarcinoma (60–70%)
• SCCs (<5%)
• germ cell tumours
• neuroendocrine tumours
• poorly differentiated carcinomas (20–30%)
• can be confused with:
— seminoma
— amelanotic melanoma
— epidermal carcinoma
• Undifferentiated malignancy (<5%)—which requires further staining to
exclude lymphoma.

Immunohistochemistry
• Essential where germ cell cancer or lymphoma are possibilities.
• Initial panel of stains likely to use antibodies to:
• CEA
• PSA
• cytokeratin
• vimentin
• common leucocyte antigen (CLA), e.g. CLA stain can usually make
the distinction between carcinoma and lymphoma (see Table 26.1).
• ER/PR staining should be requested if the presentation is compatible
with metastatic breast cancer. However, other ° sites may be ER/
PR-positive, e.g. ovarian or endometrial.
• May help decide between possible ° sites, although unfortunately
few stains are specific, e.g. neuroendocrine markers and chorionic
gonadotrophin may be found on many tumours, other than SCLC and
germ cell cancer, respectively.

Electron microscopy
• Useful for distinguishing lymphoma from carcinoma.
• Can sometimes assist in identifying neuroendocrine tumours,
melanomas, and poorly differentiated sarcomas.

Pathology

Genetic analysis
•	A promising technique, but currently not in mainstream clinical use.
•	Gene expression-based profiling should not be used when deciding
which treatment to offer patients with cancer of unknown °.
•	The identification of specific genetic abnormalities is limited to a few
tumours at present, e.g. Ewing’s sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, NHL.
Table 26.1 Site-specific immunohistochemical stains
Stain

Tumour

CLA

Lymphoma

B- and T-cell gene rearrangement

NHL

PSA

Prostate

TG

Thyroid

633

634

Chapter 26

Malignancy of unknown primary

Management aims
• Exclude potentially curable malignancies, e.g.:
• thyroid cancer
• lymphomas
• breast cancer.
• Perform only investigations that will change management. Before arranging
any investigation, it is important to ensure:
• the results are likely to affect a treatment decision
• the patient understands why the investigation is occurring
• the patient understands the potential benefits/risks of investigation
and treatment
• the patient is prepared to accept treatment
• the patient would be fit enough for treatment
• e.g. colonoscopy in a patient without obstructive bowel symptoms,
but with metastatic adenocarcinoma of probable lower GI origin,
may not influence the treatment choice.
• Identify specific clinical syndromes that predict responsiveness to therapy
(720% of all cases of CUP), e.g.:
• SCC metastatic to cervical lymph nodes is treated as advanced head
and neck cancer.
• Patient-centred care is the priority.

Initial management
Before accepting the diagnosis of cancer of unknown ° site, it is important
that all patients undergo:
• a thorough history, including detailed family history
• a full physical examination to include the following areas:
• breast
• skin
• nodal areas
• pelvic/genital
• rectal
• minimum additional investigations, which are likely to include:
• FBC
• serum biochemistry, including LFTs
• CXR
• further investigations, which should be guided by the patient’s symptoms
and may include:
• myeloma screen (if bone lesions identified)
• CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis
• endoscopy—if symptoms consistent with a GI °
• CXR
• USS/CT scan of the abdomen
• testicular USS
• mammography—if the scenario compatible with breast cancer

Management aims

• the analysis of tumour markers should be limited to, and dependent on,
the clinical scenario, e.g.:
• PSA in some men
• CA125 in women with ascites or peritoneal malignancy
•	AFP/β-HCG if germ cell tumour a possibility
• all cancer centres and cancer units should have a CUP team, with a
named lead clinician. This team should be involved early in the patient’s
pathway and will play an important role in coordinating the patient’s
care. The hospital’s acute oncology service will be able to offer advice in
the interim.

635

636

Chapter 26

Malignancy of unknown primary

Investigation of metastases to lymph
nodes and peritoneum
Metastases to lymph nodes are commoner than presentation with visceral/
bony metastases. Appropriate investigation of specific clinical presentations
is critical for optimizing treatment, and hence prognosis. Some cancers presenting in this way remain curable.

Axillary lymph nodes in women
• Metastatic adenocarcinoma in axillary lymph nodes may indicate an
occult breast cancer, even with a negative mammogram.
• Patients should be referred to a breast cancer MDT for discussion.
• MRI of the breasts is often recommended if the mammogram is normal.
•	Tissue from the axillary lymph nodes should be obtained by:
• ultrasound-guided core biopsy (most common)
• FNA
• open biopsy
• ER and PR staining should be performed on the biopsy sample.
• In the absence of distant metastatic disease, management is as for stage
II breast carcinoma and is likely to include:
• loco-regional therapy with surgical excision and radiation
• ± chemotherapy
•	This group remains potentially curable.

Cervical lymph nodes
• Squamous or undifferentiated carcinoma in cervical lymph nodes should:
• have an open biopsy, instead of FNA, if there is a possibility of
lymphoma
• be referred for full ENT examination under anaesthetic with:
— direct laryngoscopy and nasopharyngoscopy
— biopsy of the naso-, oro-, and hypopharynx
• usually be treated as head and neck cancer with involved neck nodes.
•	Radical loco-regional radiotherapy can result in a median survival of
several years, especially if the nodes are high in the neck.
• 18FDG-PET-CT scanning should be offered to patients with cervical
lymphadenopathy with no ° tumour identified on ENT panendoscopy,
provided the patient is a potential candidate for radical treatment.
•	Thyroid cancer can be excluded by staining for TG.
• Supraclavicular lymph node metastases are usually associated with
widespread malignancy and have a poor prognosis.

Inguinal lymph nodes
• Careful examination of most patients with SCC in the inguinal nodes will
demonstrate a detectable ° site in the anorectal or genital region.
• Investigations should include:
• digital rectal examination
• proctoscopy
• examination of the penis or vulva/vagina/cervix.

METASTASES TO LYMPH NODES AND PERITONEUM

• Small anal cancers remain potentially curable, despite local lymph node
involvement.
•	Treatment often includes inguinal node dissection and
combined-modality treatment with chemo-radiotherapy (as for locally
advanced cervical cancer in women).
• ° skin cancer should also be considered.

Retroperitoneal or mediastinal lymph nodes in men
• Metastatic germ cell tumour should be considered, particularly:
• in the presence of midline nodal disease
• in young men
• if serum HCG and AFP are elevated.
• Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with features of extragonadal
germ cell malignancy is treated as non-seminomatous extragonadal
germ cell malignancy.
•	The treatment intent is curative.
• Intensive chemotherapy, e.g. with bleomycin, etoposide, and cisplatin,
should be given and is often associated with an excellent response,
even in the absence of histological confirmation of germ cell cancer or
elevated serum tumour markers.

Peritoneal carcinomatosis in women
•	The differential diagnosis for adenocarcinoma with diffuse peritoneal
disease includes:
• ovarian cancer or other gynaecological ° (55%)
• ° peritoneal malignancy
• a GI °, especially if the tumour is mucin-secreting
• breast cancer, particularly lobular.
• Serum CA125 and pelvic ultrasound may be useful but are not specific.
• Wherever possible, a tissue sample should be obtained for histology,
rather than relying on cytology from ascitic fluid.
•	Laparoscopy has an investigative role in selected cases to inspect
intra-abdominal (especially gynaecological) organs and to take adequate
biopsies.
• Debulking surgery should be considered if the disease is large-volume.
• Palliative chemotherapy can produce improvement in symptoms and
temporary disease control. Malignant ascites in women, even without
evidence of solid disease, is treated as advanced ovarian cancer, often
with long-term survival.

637

638

Chapter 26

Malignancy of unknown primary

Investigation of metastases to
other sites
Intrapulmonary nodules
• Identified on CXR or CT thorax.
• Percutaneous biopsy if lesion sufficiently peripheral.
• Flexible bronchoscopy ±:
• brushings or ideally biopsy for visible tumours
• washings if tumour not visible
• transbronchial needle aspiration of accessible lymph nodes.
• If unsuitable for percutaneous biopsy and bronchoscopic procedure
negative, consider VATS.
• Sputum cytology—low yield. Reserve if bronchoscopy not appropriate.
• IHC—may help identify the °:
• CK-7, lung/breast
• CK-20, colorectal
• thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1), lung (surfactant apoprotein)
• e.g. CK-7 and TTF-1 positive—phenotype 94% specific for lung.
• PET may be useful for staging, particularly if a lung ° is suspected or if
the ° is not identified on CT.
• ° commonly metastasizing to the lung, including head and neck SCC,
breast, kidney, and large bowel.
•	Resection of solitary metastases occasionally produces long-term
survivors, e.g. from colorectal/renal °.

Liver
• Present in 20–30% of patients with CUP.
• Usually identified on USS or CT scan.
• Completion of staging investigations is required (see E Initial
management, p. 634) to determine the extent of the disease and
any obvious °.
• Biopsy under image guidance, after correction of coagulation, is usually
needed if treatment is to be considered. This guides the prognosis and
allows the selection of therapy (core biopsy under image guidance gives
more pathological information than FNA).
•	Liver resection, often with preoperative chemotherapy, can sometimes
be considered for solitary or limited hepatic metastases with a
resectable colorectal °, in the absence of disease elsewhere—this
group remains potentially curable and requires the involvement of an
appropriate tertiary centre, usually via the local MDT.
• Common ° sites include the GI tract and breast.
• If the patient appears disproportionately well for the volume of liver
disease, consider atypical diagnoses, e.g. neuroendocrine tumours such
as carcinoid.
•	Otherwise, a group of patients with a poor prognosis.

Investigation of metastases to other sites

Bone
• Isotope bone scans:
• caution must be exercised in the interpretation of isotope bone
scans, and correlation with the plain radiographs should always
be made
• multiple ‘hot spots’, in the presence of a clear history of malignancy,
almost certainly represent metastatic disease
• certain non-neoplastic disorders, e.g. Paget’s disease, may also
demonstrate multifocal uptake
• the differential diagnosis for a solitary ‘hot spot’ is broad
• conversely, multiple myeloma and certain other aggressive tumours
may present with a ‘normal’ bone scan
• MRI may give more information.
• Discussion with the orthopaedic team is advised before the biopsy
of a bone tumour of unknown aetiology. This is to prevent a poorly
planned biopsy from jeopardizing the potential for a subsequent curative
procedure or limb salvage surgery.
• If adenocarcinoma on biopsy, the ° sites include:
• commonly, the lung, prostate, and breast
• less frequently, the kidney and thyroid
• Measure PSA in men with metastases predominantly affecting bone,
particularly if the lesions are osteoblastic. Biopsy tissue may also stain
for PSA. Even if PSA is not elevated, consider treating as advanced
prostate carcinoma.
•	A solitary bone metastasis occasionally warrants radical treatment
such as high-dose radiotherapy or resection with endoprosthetic
replacement, e.g. may permit long-term survival in the occasional patient
with a solitary metastasis from RCC.

Brain
• Metastases are the commonest form of intracranial tumour.
•	The prognosis is often dictated by the extent of extracranial disease.
• Common potential ° sites include:
• lung
• breast
• melanoma.
•	Leptomeningeal disease—also most commonly due to breast and lung
cancers and melanoma, as well as large cell lymphomas and leukaemias.
Up to 7% remain of unknown °, despite investigations.
• Patients with a solitary tumour in the brain should be referred to the
appropriate MDT for consideration of radical local treatment.
•	There is no evidence that any treatment improves survival in patients
with multiple brain metastases of unknown °.

639

640

Chapter 26

Malignancy of unknown primary

Investigation of a pleural effusion
• Send fluid for cytology and biochemistry.
• Malignancy is more likely to be the cause if:
• the patient is older
• there are other risk factors, e.g. smoking, past history of asbestos
exposure
• the effusion is an exudate.
• If the fluid is a transudate, other diagnoses which can be considered
include:
• congestive cardiac failure
• constrictive pericarditis
• hypoalbuminaemia
• nephrotic syndrome, etc.
•	The differential diagnosis of an undiagnosed exudative effusion includes:
• infection, e.g. bacterial pneumonia, tuberculosis
• PE
• inflammatory disorders, e.g. sarcoidosis, pancreatitis
• metabolic causes, e.g. hypothyroidism.
• Malignant causes include:
• metastatic carcinoma, e.g. breast or lung °
• lymphoma
• mesothelioma
• leukaemia
• chylothorax
• Meigs’ syndrome (ovarian fibroma, ascites, pleural effusion)
• paraproteinaemia, e.g. multiple myeloma.
• CT of the chest—to assess for:
• thoracic lymphadenopathy
• pulmonary/pleural °
• metastatic disease.
• Percutaneous pleural biopsy ± image guidance—under local anaesthetic.
This has a low sensitivity for malignant mesothelioma.
•	Thoracoscopy—much more sensitive, particularly for malignant causes
of effusions.
•	Open pleural biopsy—occasionally necessary.
• Bronchoscopy—rarely helpful, unless the patient has imaging to suggest
a parenchymal lesion or symptoms suggestive of intrapulmonary
pathology, e.g. haemoptysis.

Investigation of a pleural effusion

641

642

Chapter 26

Malignancy of unknown primary

Management of carcinoma of unknown
primary
•	The priority is to identify:
• curable malignancies
• clinical syndromes that respond well to specific therapies, e.g. some
patients fall into the categories described earlier, and this guides
management, e.g. adenocarcinoma in axillary lymph nodes in women
is usually treated as stage II breast carcinoma (see E Axillary lymph
nodes in women, p. 636).
•	After appropriate investigation, if the patient still has a diagnosis of CUP
and does not fall into any of the subgroups described previously, then
empiric treatment can be considered (see Fig. 26.1).
•	The heterogeneity of this patient population makes interpretation of
trial data difficult.
• With treatment, the median survival is generally <1y.
• Involvement of palliative care services is usually appropriate for all
patients.

Local therapy
• Radiotherapy—should be considered for symptomatic metastases, e.g.
for painful bone metastases or for brain metastases.
• Surgery—only a single metastatic site of disease may be identified,
despite full staging investigations. In most instances, other metastases
become clinically evident within a short time. However, if no further
disease is identified, then resection should be considered. This approach
occasionally produces long disease-free intervals. This approach requires
careful discussion with the patient and assessment at a multidisciplinary
meeting.

Systemic treatment
• Select appropriate patients who may benefit from chemotherapy with
palliative intent, depending on:
• the tumour characteristics (chemo-responsiveness)
• the patient characteristics, including organ function, performance
status, and QoL issues
• discussion with the patient and often their family.
•	There are relatively few randomized trials of chemotherapy in CUP.

Management of carcinoma of unknown primary

Diagnosis of metastatic cancer
Clinical evaluation and radiography
Cancer of unknown 1° site

1° identified

Serum plus histological
tumour markers
Negative

Positive
Prostate
Germ cell
Hepatoma
Ovary

Lymph node
presentation

Exclude lymphoma
Axillary node
Exclude breast

Cervical node
Exclude head and neck

Other clinical
presentation
Bone
Exclude breast and
thyroid
Thorax, CNS, and liver
Low yield of treatable
primaries
Abdomen and pelvic
Exclude ovary and
prostate

Fig. 26.1 Identification of treatable cancer of unknown primary site.
Reproduced with permission from Cassidy J, Bissett D, Spence RAJ (1995) Oxford Textbook of
Oncology, 1st edn. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

643

644

Chapter 26

Malignancy of unknown primary

Further reading
Fizazi K, Greco FA, Pavlidis N, Pentheroudakis G; ESMO Guidelines Working Group (2011).
Cancers of unknown primary site: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and
follow-up. Ann Oncol 22 (Suppl 6), vi64–8.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (2010). Metastatic malignant disease of unknown
primary origin: diagnosis and management of metastatic malignant disease of unknown primary origin.
Clinical guideline 104. Available at: M http://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/cg104.
Pavlidis N, Petrakis D, Golfinopoulos V, Pentheroudakis G (2012). Long-term survivors among
patients with cancer of unknown primary. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol 84, 85–92.

Chapter 27

Paraneoplastic syndromes
Introduction 646
Endocrine paraneoplastic syndromes 648
Neurological paraneoplastic syndromes 650
Haematological paraneoplastic syndromes 652
Dermatological paraneoplastic syndromes 653
Other syndromes 653
Constitutional symptoms 654
Further reading 654

645

646

Chapter 27

Paraneoplastic syndromes

Introduction
•	These syndromes are caused by a cancer but are not due to direct local
infiltration or metastatic spread.
• Occur in 710% of cancer patients overall.
• Important to recognize, because they may be the presenting feature of
an undiagnosed cancer.
Cancers commonly associated with paraneoplastic syndromes (PS):
• lung—SCLC and NSCLC
• pancreatic
• lymphoma—NHL and HL
• breast
• prostate
• ovary.
Although the mechanisms of PS are not fully understood, there appear to
be two main causes:
• the inappropriate secretion of hormones and/or growth factors
• the production of anti-tumoural antibodies that cross-react with normal
tissue antigens.

Introduction

647

648

Chapter 27

Paraneoplastic syndromes

Endocrine paraneoplastic syndromes
Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone
The commonest endocrine PS is due to the inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (ADH; arginine–vasopressin).
Cancer types
• SCLC (10% of patients), pancreatic, prostate, NHL, HL.
Presentation
• Often asymptomatic. CNS effects—fatigue, headaches; progressing to
altered mental state, confusion, and seizures.
Diagnosis
• Exclude non-malignant causes, e.g. CNS disease (infection, trauma,
vascular), pulmonary disease (infections, cystic lesions, asthma),
drug-induced (thiazides, cytotoxics, narcotics); clinically euvolaemic;
laboratory studies.
Management
• Fluid restriction (0.5–1.0L/day); demeclocycline (150–300mg, 8-hourly).
Laboratory criteria for diagnosis of syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic
hormone
• Hyponatraemia—Na+ <130mmol/L.
• Normal serum albumin and glucose.
• Serum hypo-osmolarity <275mmol/kg.
•	Urine osmolarity > serum osmolarity.
•	Urinary Na+ >25mmol/L.
• Non-suppressed ADH.

Cushing’s syndrome
Inappropriate overproduction of ACTH precursors.
Cancer types
• SCLC, NSCLC, pancreatic, thymic, and carcinoid tumours.
Presentation
•	Rapid onset, marked weakness 2° to proximal myopathy,
hyperpigmentation, metabolic disturbances (e.g. hyperglycaemia,
hypokalaemic alkalosis).
Diagnosis
• Clinical features, especially hyperpigmentation, myopathy; hypokalaemia
and metabolic alkalosis; high 24h urinary cortisol, high plasma ACTH/
precursors, no response to high-dose dexamethasone suppression or
corticotrophin-releasing hormone stimulation.
Management
• Specific anti-tumour treatment. Decrease cortisol secretion either
surgically (bilateral adrenalectomy) or medically (metyrapone,
octreotide, ketoconazole).

Endocrine paraneoplastic syndromes

Hypercalcaemia
A common problem that, in many cases, is due to bony metastases. True
paraneoplastic hypercalcaemia is due to tumour production of PTH-related
protein (PTHrP). This syndrome is called humoral hypercalcaemia of
malignancy (HHM).
Cancer types
• NSCLC, head and neck, renal, other squamous cancers (rare in breast
cancer where hypercalcaemia is usually due to bone metastases).
Presentation
•	Rapid onset of nausea, polyuria, polydipsia, dehydration, cardiac
arrhythmias.
Diagnosis
• Serum Ca2+ >2.7mmol/L, serum chloride low, hypercalciuria, high
urinary phosphate, low/undetectable plasma PTH.
Management
• Saline hydration, IV pamidronate disodium (60–120mg).

Hypocalcaemia
Associated with tumours with lytic bone metastases (breast, prostate, and
lung); can also occur with calcitonin-secreting medullary carcinomas of the
thyroid. Usually asymptomatic. Rarely develop tetany and neuromuscular
irritability. Treatment with calcium infusions.

Hypoglycaemia
Rarely caused by non-islet cell pancreatic tumours; often associated with
mesenchymal tumours of the mediastinum and retroperitoneum and with
hepatic cancers. The most likely cause is tumour production of the precursor to IGF-II. Treatment with glucose infusions, tumour debulking.

649

650

Chapter 27

Paraneoplastic syndromes

Neurological paraneoplastic syndromes
• Common, occurring in up to 7% of cancer patients. The commonest
syndromes are:
• peripheral neuropathy (PN)
• proximal myopathy.
•	Thought to be 2° to autoimmune mechanisms via the production of
anti-tumour antibodies.
•	Treatment is based upon treatment of the cancer and decreasing
antibody production by immune system suppression.
•	Response to treatment is often poor (except for Lambert–Eaton
myasthenic syndrome (LEMS)).

Peripheral neuropathy
Asymptomatic PN is common; symptomatic PN less so. Usually occurs
after a diagnosis of cancer has been made and caused by axonal degeneration or demyelination. Many types of PN, e.g. motor, sensory, autonomic,
sensorimotor.
• Cancer types—SCLC, myeloma, Hodgkin’s disease, breast, GI cancers
• Presentation—depends upon the type and site
• Diagnosis—exclude non-paraneoplastic causes; nerve conduction
studies, nerve biopsy—look for inflammatory infiltrates; serum anti-Hu
antibodies in some cases
• Management—corticosteroids; treat the underlying cancer.

Encephalomyelopathies
Perivascular inflammation and selective neuronal degeneration at several
levels of the nervous system. Can affect the limbic system, brainstem, and
spinal cord.
• Cancer types—SCLC (75% of cases), breast, ovary, NHL.
• Presentation—slow, subacute onset; progressive.
• Diagnosis:
• CSF—raised protein/IgG level, pleocytosis
• serum—anti-Hu antibody
•	MRI.
• Management—anti-tumour therapy.

Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration
• Cancer types—breast, SCLC, ovary, Hodgkin’s disease.
• Presentation—rapid onset and progression; usually prior to cancer
diagnosis; bilateral cerebellar signs; late diplopia and dementia.
• Diagnosis:
• CT—cerebellar atrophy (late)
• serum autoantibodies—anti-Yo, anti-Tr, and anti-Hu.
• Management—response to anti-tumour treatment, steroids,
plasmapheresis.

Neurological paraneoplastic syndromes

Cancer-associated retinopathy
• Cancer types—SCLC, breast, melanoma.
• Presentation—visual defects, i.e. blurred vision, episodic visual loss,
impaired colour vision; leads to progressive painless visual loss; usually
precedes cancer diagnosis.
• Diagnosis—loss of acuity; scotomata; abnormal electroretinogram;
anti-retinal antibodies.
• Management—corticosteroids.

Lambert–Eaton myasthenic syndrome
Disorder of the neuromuscular junction; reduced pre-synaptic
calcium-dependent acetylcholine release. About 60% of patients with LEMS
have an underlying cancer.
• Cancer types—SCLC (60–70%), breast, thymus, GI tract cancers.
• Presentation—proximal muscle weakness.
• Diagnosis—electromyography (EMG), normal conduction velocity with
low-amplitude compound muscle action potentials that enhance to near
normal following exercise.
• Management—cancer treatment, corticosteroids, plasma exchange (high
response rate).

Dermatomyositis/polymyositis
Inflammatory myopathies, often present prior to cancer diagnosis.
• Cancer types—NSCLC, SCLC, breast, ovary, GI tract cancers.
• Presentation—proximal myopathy, skin changes, other systemic features;
cardiopulmonary conditions, arthralgias, retinopathy.
• Diagnosis:
• serum—high creatine kinase (CK), LDH, aldolase
• muscle biopsy—myositis
• EMG—fibrillation, insertion irritability, short polyphasic motor units.
•	Management—search for, and treat, the tumour; corticosteroids,
azathioprine.

651

652

Chapter 27

Paraneoplastic syndromes

Haematological paraneoplastic
syndromes
Red cell disorders
Erythrocytosis
Common, often 2° to increased EPO production, e.g. RCC, hepatoma.
Treat with venesection, if required.
Haemolytic anaemia
•	Autoimmune—2° to lymphoproliferative disorders (treatment with
corticosteroids).
•	Micro-angiopathic—2° to vascular tumours, acute pro-myelocytic
leukaemia, or widespread metastatic adenocarcinoma. Treat the
tumour; replace coagulation factors; IV heparin.
Red cell aplasia
Seen in thymoma, CLL; rare in solid tumours.

White cell disorders
•	Autoimmune neutropenia (rare).
• Granulocytosis—2° to haemopoietic growth factor-secreting tumours
(e.g. squamous cell cancers of the lung, thyroid).
• Eosinophilia—in patients with HL.

Platelet disorders
•	Thrombocytosis—>450 × 109/L is common and usually asymptomatic;
in some cases, may be 2° to IL-6 production.
• Idiopathic thrombocytopenia—associated with leukaemias and
lymphomas.

Coagulopathy
•	Minor abnormalities of fibrin and fibrinogen degradation products are
common.
• Overt DIC is rare and is associated with acute myelocytic leukaemia and
adenocarcinomas.
• Diagnosed by a triad of thrombocytopenia, abnormal prothrombin
time, and hypofibrinoginaemia.
•	Management is controversial.

Other syndromes

Dermatological paraneoplastic
syndromes
Pruritus
Common; characteristic of HL, leukaemias, CNS tumours, NHL.

Pigmentation
• Acanthosis nigricans—itchy brown hyperkeratotic plaques, mainly in
flexures; may precede cancers by many years; associated with GI tract
tumours, e.g. gastric adenocarcinoma.
• Vitiligo—patchy depigmentation, especially the face, neck, and hands;
associated with malignant melanoma; possibly due to anti-melanoma
immune response.

Erythematous
• Necrolytic migratory erythema—islet cell tumour.
• Exfoliative dermatitis—cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.

Bullous
• Pemphigus—characteristic bullous lesions on the skin and mucous
membranes; associated with lymphoma, KS, thymic tumours.
• Dermatitis herpetiformis—chronic, intensely itchy vesicles over the
elbows, knees, and lower back; precede the tumour by many years;
associated with lymphomas, e.g. NHL of the small intestine.

Other syndromes
Hypertrophic osteoarthropathy
Characterized by finger clubbing, periosteal new bone formation, and
arthropathy.
• Cancer types—lung cancer, especially NSCLC.
• Presentation—painful, swollen joints.
• Diagnosis:
• clinical—X-ray showing periosteal shadowing
• bone scan—increased uptake.
• Management—anti-tumour therapy, NSAIDs, corticosteroids, radiation.

653

654

Chapter 27

Paraneoplastic syndromes

Constitutional symptoms
Fever (pyrexia of unexplained origin, PUO)
Can be the presenting feature of lymphoma, hepatoma, RCC; mediated by
IL-1; treat with NSAIDs, corticosteroids; exclude other causes.

Cachexia
Very common; >10% loss of body weight is associated with a poor prognosis; due to complex multifactorial metabolic derangements; treat with
enteral caloric supplements and appetite stimulants, e.g. corticosteroids,
megestrol acetate.

Further reading
John WJ, Patchell RA, Foon KA (1994). Paraneoplastic syndromes. In: DeVita VT, Hellman S, Rosenberg
SA, eds. Cancer: principles and practice of oncology, 5th edn. Philadelphia: Lippincott-Raven,
pp. 2397–422.
MacCaulay VM, Smith IE (1995). Paraneoplastic syndromes. In: Peckham M, Pinedo H, Veronesi U,
eds. Oxford textbook of oncology. Oxford: Oxford University Press, pp. 2228–53.
Multiple authors (1997). A series of articles on paraneoplastic syndromes in Semin Oncol 24,
265–381.

Chapter 28

AIDS-related malignancies
Introduction 656
Effects of antiretroviral therapy 657
Kaposi’s sarcoma 658
Systemic non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma 662
Primary central nervous system lymphoma 664
Cervical cancer in HIV-positive females 666
Non-AIDS-defining malignancies 668
Further reading 670

655

656

Chapter 28

AIDS-related malignancies

Introduction
HIV represents the worst pandemic of the last quarter of a century.
•	The pandemic has reached nearly all populations worldwide.
• In 2011, it was estimated that:
• 734 million people were living with HIV/AIDS, including 2.5 million
children
• 1.7 million people died due to AIDS during that year
• there was wide variation in the worldwide prevalence of HIV
infection (see E Further reading, p. 670), e.g.:
— 0.1% East Asia
— 7% sub-Saharan Africa
— >35% in certain countries, e.g. Botswana.
•	The rate of new cases in some countries is stabilizing, but, in others, e.g.
parts of Eastern Europe, the incidence continues to increase.
•	The availability of generic medication, intensive input from several
global aid programmes, and policy changes within the worst affected
countries is steadily increasing access to antiretroviral therapy (ART). It
is estimated that a third of people with HIV in developing countries now
have access to treatment.
Malignant disease is observed in 25–40% of all HIV-infected patients at
some stage in their illness and may be causative in almost one-third of
HIV-related deaths.
Currently, four malignancies define the onset of AIDS:
• KS
• intermediate and high-grade NHL of B-cell or unknown immunological
phenotype
• PCNSL (in patients aged >60y, a positive HIV serology is required to
define the onset of AIDS)
• invasive cervical cancer in HIV-positive ♀.
Other tumours have an increased incidence in HIV-positive individuals, e.g.
anal cancer, Hodgkin’s disease, but are not AIDS-defining.
The management of the patient with an AIDS-related malignancy requires
a multidisciplinary approach, with consideration of:
• the cancer
• the underlying immune deficiency
• any coexistent complex psychological and social issues.

Effects of antiretroviral therapy

Effects of antiretroviral therapy
•	The evolution of ART made it possible to achieve near-complete
suppression of the viral load and to maintain CD4 lymphocyte counts.
•	This increasing efficacy of ART is changing the spectrum of cancers
observed in patients with HIV in the developed world.
• Observations include:
• d incidence of opportunistic infections
• d incidence of KS
• d incidence of NHL
• i incidence of non-AIDS-defining cancers
• i proportion of HIV-related deaths attributable to cancer. Pre-ART,
this figure was 10%. Currently, 25–30% of deaths in patients with
HIV are due to malignancy. Possible explanations for this include:
— a reduction in competing causes of deaths
— an ageing population
— the effects of chronic immunosuppression
— co-infection with other oncogenic viruses, e.g. EBV, HPC, HBV,
human herpesvirus-8 (HHV-8).

657

658

Chapter 28

AIDS-related malignancies

Kaposi’s sarcoma
• Incurable multifocal soft tissue sarcoma of vascular origin, with a highly
variable clinical course.
•	Remains the commonest malignancy seen in patients with HIV infection,
despite its falling incidence.
• Cutaneous involvement is characteristic, and disease progression may
be slow. However, it can behave aggressively, affecting visceral sites and
causing significant morbidity and mortality.

Epidemiology and aetiology
Four clinical settings recognized:
• classical form—often indolent. Affects predominantly the extremities of
older men from the Mediterranean, Middle East, or Eastern Europe
• endemic African variant—pre-dating HIV. Also ♂ predominance. May be
indolent or aggressive
• iatrogenic—seen in patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy, e.g. in
organ transplant recipients, typically 1–2y after transplant. The tumour
may regress when this treatment is reduced. Again, ♂ predominance
• epidemic AIDS-related form—now the commonest form in the
developing world:
• in the West, principally a disease of men who have sex with men
(MSM). Much less common in other groups of patients with HIV
• associated with infection with HHV-8. Infection precedes, and is
predictive of, the development of KS, although its precise role in the
pathogenesis is not understood—increasing anti-HHV-8 antibody
titres and the absence of neutralizing antibodies have both been
associated with a greater risk of disease. Transmission is likely to be
both sexual and non-sexual. DNA from HHV-8 has been identified
in KS lesions, semen, blood, and bronchial washings from affected
patients
• the incidence of KS has declined markedly with the development of
ART. This decline cannot be attributed to a fall in the incidence of
HHV-8, which has remained essentially stable
• Despite a falling incidence, the morbidity and mortality ascribed to
KS has increased. Visceral KS accounts for the death of one in four
HIV-positive MSM.

Presentation
May be precipitated/exacerbated by exogenous steroids. Lesions may
regress on withdrawal of steroids.
Cutaneous
• Multiple non-painful red-purple lesions.
• Flat l plaques l nodules with oedema. Up to several cm in diameter.
•	Typically affecting the upper body, face, oral mucosa, genitalia, and legs.

Kaposi’s sarcoma

Systemic
• Involvement of the organs is usually a later manifestation of KS and is
rarely a presenting feature.
• Pulmonary—cough, breathlessness, chest pain, incidental finding on CXR
(effusion, infiltration, lymphadenopathy), occasionally haemoptysis
• GI (40% at diagnosis)—weight loss, pain, diarrhoea, obstruction,
bleeding, lesions visible on the palate/gums (>30% of patients with KS
have oral involvement)
• Lymphoedema.

Investigations
• Skin biopsy to confirm the diagnosis.
• CXR ± bronchoscopy if pulmonary KS suspected.
• FOB test may be positive with GI KS, but a negative result is unhelpful.
• Endoscopy if GI KS suspected.
• CD4 count and viral load (necessary for accurate staging and
appropriate treatment selection).

Pathology
• Key histological features characterizing all forms of KS are:
• inflammatory infiltrate
• angiogenesis
• proliferation of spindle cells.
• A diagnostic feature is the intradermal proliferation of abnormal
vacuolar structures, lined with large, spindle-shaped endothelial cells.
• Also:
• micro-haemorrhages
• haemosiderin deposition.

Staging
The AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) has developed a staging classification, designed to assist with prognosis (see Table 28.1).
Table 28.1 ACTG guidelines
Good prognosis—all of:

Poor prognosis—any of:

Tumour

Skin only ± lymph nodes
and/or minimal oral disease

Oedema/ulceration, extensive
oral disease, visceral KS

Immunological

CD4 cell count >200/
microliter

CD4 cell count <200/
microlitre

Symptoms

Nil, Karnofsky >70

Opportunistic infection or
thrush, B symptoms*, Karnofsky
<70, other HIV-related illness

* B symptoms are recurrent sweats/fevers, persistent diarrhoea, and involuntary weight loss.

659

660

Chapter 28

AIDS-related malignancies

Management
Treatment is palliative in intent, with the ° goal being to stabilize the
tumour growth, whilst maintaining the QoL.
Local therapy for local control and cosmesis
• Cryotherapy and laser—especially if lesions are ≤1cm.
• Topical agents—e.g. with 9-cis retinoic acid (alitretinoin). May produce
local disease response after 4–12wk of treatment. Response rates of
30–40%. The advantages are that this is a patient-administered therapy
with low toxicity; the main side effect is local irritation.
• Intralesional chemotherapy—e.g. with vinblastine. Injection into the KS
lesion can produce short-term regression in 775% of cases. The mean
duration of palliation is typically 3–4mo. Most effective for smaller
lesions.
• Radiotherapy—may be the preferred treatment for lesions that are too
extensive for intralesional chemotherapy. A response rate equal to
intralesional chemotherapy can be achieved with single-fraction doses
of 8Gy. Can be repeated if there is recurrence or insufficient regression.
Palatal lesions can also be irradiated, using iridium wire moulds.
Systemic therapy
If cutaneous disease is widespread, local treatment has failed, or there is
extensive symptomatic oedema or visceral disease.
Combined antiretroviral therapy
•	Recommended for almost all patients with AIDS-related KS.
• May be the only treatment needed. 760% of patients respond to
immune restoration if treated with ART alone.
• Lesions may fully or partially regress, and there may be the
disappearance of baseline HHV-8 viraemia.
•	Response rates may be greater if ART is combined with the appropriate
chemotherapy.
Chemotherapy
• Consider if:
• the disease is extensive
• the progression appears to be rapid
• there are significant symptoms unresponsive to ART.
• Liposomal anthracyclines (e.g. pegylated liposomal doxorubicin,
Caelyx®) are the first-line choice.
•	Response rates of 30–60% have been observed and may be greater if
given in combination with ART.
•	Treatment is usually well tolerated, and cardiotoxicity with the new
liposomal preparations is less than for conventional anthracyclines.
• Paclitaxel can be considered as second-line treatment in selected
patients.

Kaposi’s sarcoma

Biological therapies
• Imatinib—orally active TKI which inhibits both c-kit receptors and the
PDGFRs. Activation of these receptors is understood to be important
for the proliferation of KS lesions. Only studied in small early-phase
trials so far (when response rates of up to 50% have been reported).
• Bevacizumab—mAb targeting the VEGF receptor which is believed to
have a role in the growth of KS. A recent encouraging, but small, phase
II trial (17 patients) reported disease response in 31% and disease
stabilization in a further 56%.
• Immunotherapy:
• interferon alfa—most effective if the disease is non-visceral and
the CD4 count is >200/microlitre. Response rates of 20–40%
have been observed. Potential toxicity includes ‘flu-like symptoms’,
marrow suppression, and depression
• IL-12—disease response reported when used in small
non-randomized trials, either as single-agent treatment or in
combination with standard chemotherapy.
Supportive care
• Camouflage with cosmetics.
• Psychosocial support.
• Palliation of symptoms.

661

662

Chapter 28

AIDS-related malignancies

Systemic non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Epidemiology and aetiology
• Second commonest malignancy to affect those with AIDS, despite
a falling incidence since the widespread use of ART. Almost half of
patients will previously have had an AIDS-defining illness.
•	The risk of a person with HIV developing lymphoma is 60–160 times
greater than in the seronegative population.
•	The incidence of systemic NHL increases with worsening
immunosuppression. NHL also has a higher incidence in individuals who
are immunocompromised for other reasons.
• Close association between the development of NHL in AIDS and
infection with EBV. EBV proteins can be demonstrated in ≥50% of
lymphomas, particularly immunoblastic and large cell lymphomas.
It is thought that the proliferation of EBV-infected cells in the
immune-deficient host may proceed unchecked.
• Oncogenic mutations have also been identified, e.g. in the p53 tumour
suppressor gene and c-MYC gene.

Presentation
•	Typically seen in advanced HIV infection (CD4 ≤100/microlitre).
• Frequently involves extra-nodal sites—780% have stage IV disease at
presentation, e.g. involving the GI tract, bone marrow, CNS, including
lymphomatous meningitis, liver, or recurrent effusions (° effusion
lymphoma is a variant of NHL).
• Constitutional ‘B’ symptoms are common (see E Hodgkin’s
lymphoma, p. 574).
• Differential diagnoses include tuberculosis and CMV.

Pathology
• 780% of AIDS-associated NHL is high grade.
• ≥90% are diffuse large B-cell (immunoblastic subtype) or Burkitt’s-like
lymphoma.
• Not all lymphomas in the immunocompromised patient are monoclonal.
Some tumours may comprise polyclonal cell populations that
demonstrate metastatic potential.

Investigations and staging
• Bloods, including LDH.
• CXR.
• CT of the head, abdomen, and pelvis
• Consider PET—may assist in accurate staging.
• Lymph node biopsy (ideally not FNA) and bone marrow biopsy.
• Lumbar puncture and CSF examination, even if asymptomatic.

Poor prognostic factors
• Prior AIDS-defining diagnosis or CD4 count <100/microlitre.
• Karnofsky performance score <70.
• Age >35y.
• Extra-nodal disease, including bone marrow involvement.
• i LDH.
• Immunoblastic subtype.

Systemic non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma

Management
• Optimal management should be coordinated in a centre with specialist
expertise in AIDS-associated lymphomas.
• Concomitant ART reduces the incidence of opportunistic infections and
improves survival.
• Patients also generally receive prophylaxis against Pneumocystis jiroveci
pneumonia (PCP).
• Potentially curative local treatments can be considered for patients
presenting with stage I or II NHL (see Chapter 24).
•	The vast majority of patients with AIDS-associated NHL present with
stage IV disease and require systemic therapy.
•	Treatment for advanced disease is with combination chemotherapy, e.g.
CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisolone),
given on a 3-weekly schedule, is a commonly used regime, although
many other combinations have been tried.
• Baseline immunodeficiency and reduced bone marrow reserve means
more intensive chemotherapy regimens tend to be poorly tolerated.
• Leptomeningeal involvement requires intrathecal chemotherapy, usually
with MTX and cytarabine. Intrathecal prophylaxis remains controversial
but can be considered in those at high risk of meningeal involvement
(e.g. patients with BL, paraspinal or paranasal disease, bone marrow
infiltration, or EBV detected in their CSF).
•	Response rates to treatment and TTP are less good in patients
with AIDS than in seronegative patients treated for lymphomas of
similar histology. However, the routine use of ART plus combination
chemotherapy has improved the outlook a little; the 2–3y survival is
now 40–60%, with death usually due either to recurrent lymphoma or
opportunistic infection. Those who achieve a complete response with
chemotherapy have a survival benefit ranging from 6 to 20mo, with a
small percentage of long-term survivors.
•	Rituximab—a mAb used in the standard treatment of NHL in the
general (non-immunosupressed) population. However, its role in
AIDS-associated NHL is controversial, with no phase III data yet
supporting its use and evidence to suggest it may decrease CD4 counts,
increase the viral load, and increase infectious complications. Hence, its
use must be carefully monitored.

663

664

Chapter 28

AIDS-related malignancies

Primary central nervous system
lymphoma
Epidemiology and aetiology
• Affects at least 2–6% of HIV-positive individuals (autopsy series suggest
the incidence may be greater).
• Accounts for 15% of NHLs in HIV-infected patients (as opposed to 1%
of NHLs seen in the HIV-negative population).
• Usually a late manifestation of AIDS (CD4 ≤50/microlitre), and patients
often have other serious opportunistic infections.
• Falling incidence in the developed world since the introduction of HAART.

Presenting symptoms
• Focal, e.g. hemiparesis, aphasia, focal seizures, deafness, cranial nerve
palsies.
• Non-focal, e.g. confusion, lethargy, headaches.
• Constitutional ‘B’ symptoms identified in 780% of cases.

Pathology
• Diffuse B-cell lymphoma is the most common subtype.
•	The histology is similar to that of AIDS-related NHL, except that almost
all cases are associated with EBV. This is very different to PCNSL in
seronegative patients, which is not associated with EBV.
• Disease limited to the CNS.

Investigations
• MRI is the investigation of choice. The typical appearance is of a
well-defined enhancing focal lesion, which may be indistinguishable from
cerebral toxoplasmosis.
• CSF cytology ± amplification of EBV DNA in CSF sample.
•	Toxoplasmosis serological testing.
• SPECT scanning, e.g. using thallium-201, may have a role as a means of
non-invasively differentiating between PCNSL and toxoplasmosis.
• Consider slit-lamp examination to assess for ocular involvement
(reported in up to 15% of patients).
• Stereotactic brain biopsy is occasionally necessary, particularly if there
has been no response to antitoxoplasma therapy.

Management
• Empirical treatment with antitoxoplasma therapy, pending the results of
other investigations.
• Delay the use of steroids, until after investigations have been completed,
if at all possible. Exogenous corticosteroids may reduce the tumour size
and provide symptomatic benefit. They can also reduce the radiological
enhancement after contrast injection and the diagnostic yield at biopsy.
•	Treatment should be combined with appropriate HAART. There
is evidence to show that an increase in CD4 count, combined with
tumour-specific therapy, increases survival. It may also affect the
disease distribution, e.g. reduction in leptomeningeal involvement.
Unfortunately, MDR is common in the group of patients whose
immunosuppression puts them at greatest risk of developing PCNSL.

Primary central nervous system lymphoma

• Standard first-line treatment for AIDS-associated PCNSL is whole-brain
radiotherapy, in combination with corticosteroids. Complete response
rates as high as 50% have been reported.
• Intrathecal chemotherapy is occasionally used. There is little evidence to
support the use of systemic chemotherapy.
• Entry into clinical trials should be offered, wherever possible.
• Untreated, typical survival is 1–2mo. With treatment, the median
survival from diagnosis remains just 2–4mo. This is largely due to the
context of severe immunocompromise, in which PCNSL typically
develops—death is usually due to opportunistic infections.
• A good performance status at diagnosis is associated with longer
survival—palliation for up to 18mo may occasionally be possible.

665

666

Chapter 28

AIDS-related malignancies

Cervical cancer in HIV-positive females
• Moderate/severe cervical dysplasia is classed as an early symptomatic
HIV condition in seropositive ♀.
•	The prevalence of CIN is up to 40% in HIV-infected women.
• All HIV-positive women should be encouraged to participate in
screening programmes, wherever possible. It is advisable to screen
patients frequently. An initial cervical smear test and colposcopy at the
time of diagnosis with HIV is recommended. The cervical smear should
be repeated after 6mo, and subsequently it is recommended annually.
• Effective ART is often associated with regression of CIN (>70%
of low-grade lesions), particularly in women who are less
immunocompromised when the lesion is diagnosed.
• HIV-infected women with stable CD4 levels and low viral loads
can be managed in the same way as the seronegative population
(seeChapter 20).
• Cervical cancer in seropositive ♀ is an AIDS-defining diagnosis. Its
increased prevalence may be because both the HIV virus and the
oncogenic HPV are sexually transmissible. The incidence of all
HPV-associated cancers is increased in AIDS. The incidence of cervical
cancer is also inversely related to the CD4 count.
• In most women (almost 30%), invasive cervical cancer is the initial
AIDS-defining diagnosis.
• A potential major clinical issue in sub-Saharan Africa where there is
no routine access to screening. However, at present (with limited
availability of ART), the commonest cause of death in these regions
remains opportunistic infections.

Cervical cancer in HIV-positive females

667

668

Chapter 28

AIDS-related malignancies

Non-AIDS-defining malignancies
Hodgkin’s disease
•	The incidence of Hodgkin’s disease in HIV-positive patients is 5–9 times
greater than in the general population.
•	The commonest histological variant in patients with HIV is the mixed
cellularity subtype (compared with nodular sclerosis in non-HIV-infected
patients with Hodgkin’s disease).
•	The development of Hodgkin’s disease is associated with worsening
immunosuppression, as with the AIDS-defining malignancies.
• More commonly observed in patients where the transmission of HIV
has been by IV drug use.
• Strong association with EBV infection.
• Often advanced at presentation, with bone marrow involvement
present in 750% and widely disseminated extra-nodal disease in >75%.
• Combination chemotherapy should be combined with appropriate
HAART. CR following therapy is possible. However, the median survival
is only 12–18mo, with death due to relapse or opportunistic infections.

Anal cancer
• Anal cancer is independently associated with both HIV and HPV.
MSM are a group at particular risk. The incidence of anal cancer in
HIV-positive MSM is 7 twice that seen in seronegative MSM. There is
often a preceding history of anal warts.
•	Treatment of anal dysplasia in HIV-infected individuals is controversial.
Low-grade lesions can be followed clinically by serial anoscopy
and biopsy, whilst high-grade lesions, when the immune function is
preserved, can be treated by excision and laser ablation (if dysplasia is
limited).
• Anal intraepithelial neoplasia (AIN) developing at the epithelial
transformation zone is the pre-invasive condition, believed to progress
to anal cancer (analogous to CIN in cervical cancer). However, the
association between the risk of AIN and the CD4 count remains
unclear. Effective ART does not correlate with regression of AIN
(unlike CIN).
• Anal cancer may be asymptomatic. Alternatively, presentation with
tenesmus, bleeding, pruritus, or pain may occur.
•	Treatment is with HAART and chemo-radiotherapy.

Other solid malignancies
•	The increasingly widespread use of ART has reduced the incidence of
the AIDS-defining cancers. The impact of ART on other cancers within
the seropositive population is less clear.
• Evidence suggests an increased incidence of other solid
tumours in patients with concomitant HIV infection. Whilst
AIDS-defining malignancies are generally associated with advanced
immunosuppression, it is emerging that even patients with controlled
HIV are at increased risk of other incurable solid malignancies.

Non-AIDS-defining malignancies

• Of these, the leading cause of mortality in the HIV-infected population
is lung cancer:
• 730% of all cancer-related deaths
• 710% of all non-HIV-related deaths
• onset 2–3 decades earlier than in the non-HIV population
• average cigarette exposure lower than in the non-HIV population.
• Other solid cancers seen at greater frequency in patients with HIV
include:
• skin cancers, particularly BCC
• testicular tumours
• squamous cell head and neck cancers.

669

670

Chapter 28

AIDS-related malignancies

Further reading
Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) and World Health Organization
(2012). UNAIDS report on the global AIDS epidemic (2012). Available at: M http://
www.unaids.org/en/media/unaids/contentassets/documents/epidemiology/2012/
gr2012/20121120_UNAIDS_Global_Report_2012_with_annexes_en.pdf.
Kaplan LD (2012). HIV-associated lymphoma. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol 25, 101–17.
Martis N, Mounier N (2012). Hodgkin lymphoma in patients with HIV infection: a review. Curr
Hematol Malig Rep 7, 228–34.
Radu O, Pantanowitz L (2013). Kaposi sarcoma. Arch Pathol Lab 137, 289–94.
Winstone TA, Man SF, Hull M, Montaner JS, Sin DD (2013). Epidemic of lung cancer in patients with
HIV infection. Chest 143, 305–14.

Chapter 29

Childhood cancers
presenting in adults
Introduction 672
Embryonal tumours 674
Soft tissue sarcomas 676
Further reading 677

671

672

Chapter 29

Childhood cancers presenting in adults

Introduction
Uncommonly, malignant tumours of pathology identical to childhood cancers occur in adults, usually aged 20–40y, and these present a variety of
particular challenges:
• often present with advanced disease
• the pathological diagnosis may be difficult and may require expert
central review by a paediatric pathologist and confirmatory cytogenetics
• scant evidence base to direct management in adults, no randomized
trials, and few published historical series, often reflecting changes in
management over several decades
• usually present through adult MDTs who may lack the experience and
expertise in the treatment of these tumours, no designated national
centres
• lack of research/novel therapy development because of their rarity and
Cinderella status with the pharmaceutical industry.
In general, management will be broadly based on current practice in paediatric patients, but this must be modified to account for:
• frequently aggressive tumour pathology and natural history, with
relatively poor prognosis in adult patients, compared with children
• age-related intolerance to intensive therapies:
• these patients may best be treated with G-CSF and/or
broad-spectrum antibiotics as ° prophylaxis against febrile
neutropenia during chemotherapy
• cumulative myelosuppression and non-haematological toxicities
(neuro- and cardiotoxicity) commonly limit the number of cycles of
chemotherapy that can be safely delivered
• relative safety and breadth of experience with radiation therapy in
adults, compared with children, at most tumour sites:
• in particular, fewer concerns with regard to late effects of treatment
on growth, fertility, and the risk of 2° malignancy.
This chapter will cover the solid tumours of childhood that can occur in
adults; for haematological malignancies, see Chapter 24.

Introduction

673

674

Chapter 29

Childhood cancers presenting in adults

Embryonal tumours
Medulloblastoma
• 72% of adult CNS tumours.
• Median age 30y, very occasionally aged >60y.
• Usually present with disease in the lateral cerebellar hemisphere (the
vermis is the usual site in children).
• Differentiate from metastasis and glioma.
•	The majority are treated by surgical resection, followed by craniospinal
radiotherapy:
• 35Gy to the whole brain and spine
• boost to 54Gy to the posterior fossa.
• Chemotherapy reserved for metastatic disease or recurrence.
• Late relapse in the posterior fossa is a common feature.
• 10y survival 750%:
• prognosis worse with invasion of the brainstem or fourth ventricle.
Radiation therapy should be planned and delivered by a team experienced
in the delivery of craniospinal radiotherapy.

Retinoblastoma
• Very rare after the age of 5y.
• Median age in adults 38y (range 20–74y).
•	Present with loss of vision.
• Visible white tumour mass arising from the choroid.
• Differential diagnosis—lymphoma, amelanotic melanoma, metastatic
carcinoma, benign retinocytoma, and inflammatory conditions.
• Should be managed in national specialist centres for ocular oncology (in
the UK, Moorfield and Barts or Liverpool).
• Biopsy can be performed prior to definitive treatment.
• Enucleation is often the most appropriate treatment.

Neuroblastoma
•	Arise in the adrenal gland or elsewhere in the sympathetic nervous
system.
• Differentiate from adrenal adenoma, adrenal metastasis,
adenocarcinoma, and phaeochromocytoma.
• Surgical resection only for localized disease.
•	Adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy indicated for:
stages II–IV
high-risk pathology, i.e. undifferentiated tumours
amplification of the MYCN oncogene.
•	Pathology and genetic analysis can be carried out on image-guided core
biopsy.
•	Recently agreed image-defined risk factors can be used in patients being
considered for neoadjuvant therapy:
• ipsilateral tumour extension within two body compartments
(neck–chest, chest–abdomen, abdomen–pelvis)
• neck tumours encasing major vessels, extending to the skull base, or
compressing the trachea

Embryonal tumours

cervico-thoracic junction tumours encasing the brachial plexus or
major vessels
• thoracic tumours encasing major arteries, compressing major airway,
or invading the rib/spine
• abdominal or pelvic tumours infiltrating adjacent organs, major
vessels, the sciatic nerve
• intra-spinal tumour.
• Metastatic disease has a poor prognosis with no MS stage (spread of
disease confined to the skin, liver, bone marrow, with relatively good
prognosis) in patients >18mo.
• Chemotherapy regimens include high-dose cyclophosphamide or
ifosfamide, doxorubicin, cisplatin, and etoposide.
• EBRT can be used with considerably greater freedom to improve local
control than in young children:
• therapy dose of radiolabelled MIBG may be useful in the palliation of
advanced disease
• metastatic disease may also respond well to short courses of palliative
radiotherapy by external beam.
•

The staging system for neuroblastoma is shown in Table 29.1.

Wilms’ tumour
• Median age 26y (range 16–73y).
•	The prognosis depends on the stage and pathology.
•	Pathological diagnosis of poor prognosis (WT with anaplasia) can be
difficult to differentiate from sarcomatoid carcinoma:
need for central paediatric review of the pathology.
• Worse prognosis stage for stage, compared with children, particularly
with unfavourable histology.
•	Radiotherapy of 40–50Gy to the renal bed after incomplete resection.
•	Adjuvant chemotherapy, as per paediatric protocols, with some provisos:
adults tolerate weekly vincristine poorly, rapidly developing peripheral
and autonomic neuropathy
first-line therapy vincristine, actinomycin, doxorubicin, ±
cyclophosphamide, carboplatin, etoposide.
•	Reported overall 5y survival >80%.
•	Occasionally, late lung 2° have been reported over 20y after the °
resection.
Table 29.1 Neuroblastoma—international staging system (adults)
Stage

Description

1

Localized tumour with complete gross excision, including any involved
lymph nodes

2A

Localized tumour with incomplete gross excision, node-negative

2B

Localized tumour with residual ipsilateral involved nodes

3

Unresectable unilateral tumour infiltrating across the midline or with
contralateral lymph node involvement

4

Disseminated disease (distant lymph nodes, bone, bone marrow, liver,
skin, etc.)

675

676

Chapter 29

Childhood cancers presenting in adults

Soft tissue sarcomas
Rhabdomyosarcoma
Sarcomas arising from muscle are relatively rare in adults, and the majority
bear little resemblance to the embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma of childhood,
in terms of the natural history and behaviour.
•	Only comprises 2% of soft tissue sarcomas >16y.
• Median age of 45y, with bimodal distribution (one peak in the late teens,
the other in the 60s).
•	The majority are of pleomorphic pathology:
• then, in order, embryonal, followed by alveolar.
•	Pathological diagnosis may be difficult and need central review:
• cytogenetics can be helpful (1:13 and 2:13 translocations in alveolar
rhabdomyosarcoma).
•	One in three presents with metastatic disease, most often blood-borne
to the lung.
•	One in five has lymph node spread, relatively unusual in sarcomas.
•	Truncal and limb sites predominate but can arise in the head and neck/
genitourinary tract.
• Chemotherapy recommended for all patients, if fit, e.g.
doxorubicin–ifosfamide-based regimens.
•	Response rate of up to 80%, with complete responses in 30–40%.
• Best outcome with tumours <5 cm, good response to chemotherapy,
and embryonal pathology (see Table 29.2).
• Localized tumours have a 30–50% local recurrence rate.
•	Overall 5y survival only 35%.
• Because this tumour is chemosensitive, surgery is used for biopsy and
excision, where practical, without causing extensive morbidity. Repeat
excision of limb and trunk tumours and debulking retroperitoneal
tumours may provide some survival advantage.
Table 29.2 Rhabdomyosarcoma—pathology and behaviour
Pathological type

%

Site

Response to chemotherapy

Pleomorphic

36

Limb, trunk

Sensitive

Alveolar

23

Limb, trunk

Resistant

Embryonal

28

Head and neck, trunk

Highly sensitive

Other

13

Further reading

Further reading
Helman LJ, Malkin D (2008). Cancers of childhood. In: DeVita VT, Lawrence TS, Senberg SA,
eds. Cancer: principles and practice of oncology. Philadelphia: Lippincott, Williams and Wilkins,
pp. 2033–83.
Izawa JI, Al-Omar M, Winquist E, et al. (2008). Prognostic variables in adult Wilms tumour. Can J
Surg 51, 252–6.
Padovani L, Sunyach MP, Perol D, et al. (2007). Common strategy for adult and pediatric medulloblastoma: a multicenter series of 253 adults. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 68, 433–40.
Parambil J, Aughenbaugh GL, Pereira JC (2005). Solitary pulmonary metastasis presenting 20 years
after primary resection of Wilms tumour. Mayo Clin Proc 80, 1514–16.
Simon JH, Paulino AC, Ritchie JM, Mayr NA, Buatti JM (2003). Presentation, prognostic factors and
patterns of failure in adult rhabdomyosarcoma. Sarcoma 7, 1–7.

677

Part 5

Emergencies in
oncology
30 Spinal cord compression and bone
marrow suppression
31 Overview of acute oncology
32 Superior vena cava obstruction and raised
intracranial pressure
33 Airway obstruction
34 Thromboembolic and cardiac emergencies
35 Obstruction
36 Biochemical crises
37 Complications of long-term central venous
lines and chemotherapy extravasation

681
691
695
703
711
719
731
743

Chapter 30

Spinal cord compression
and bone marrow
suppression
Spinal cord compression 682
Bone marrow suppression 686
Red cell transfusion in cancer patients 689

681

682

Chapter 30

Spinal cord compression

Spinal cord compression
Spinal cord compression is a medical emergency. Treatment must begin
within hours, not days, to maximize the chance of neurological recovery.
Every cancer network should have a clear care pathway for the diagnosis and
management of malignant spinal cord compression (NICE clinical guidance).

Presentation
• Bone involvement from cancer.
• Common in these malignancies:
• breast
• prostate
• lung
• myeloma
• lymphoma.
• Less common in:
• thyroid
• kidney
• bladder
• bowel
• melanoma
• ° bone tumours.
• May be the first presentation of malignancy—prostate, breast, myeloma.
• Crush fracture and/or soft tissue tumour extension common.
• Occasional direct extension from malignant retroperitoneal or
mediastinal lymphadenopathy, e.g. lymphoma.
• Occasional extradural tumour mass, causing cord compression in the
absence of bone involvement.
• Occasional intramedullary metastases or ° tumour.
• 66% of cases occur in the thoracic cord.

Symptoms
(See Table 30.1.)
•	Pain, typically radicular, exacerbated by coughing or straining and not
relieved by bed rest, frequently precedes neurological symptoms or signs.
•	Any patient with cancer who develops severe back pain with a root
distribution should be considered at risk of spinal cord compression and
urgently investigated.
•	Patients with known bone metastases should be encouraged to
self-refer without delay.
• Weakness of the legs (and arms if the lesion is cervical), sensory loss,
retention, dribbling, or incontinence of urine or faeces are late symptoms.

Cauda equina syndrome
•	The spinal cord ends at the level of L1 or L2.
•	Tumours below this level may produce cauda equina compression, with
sciatic pain (often bilateral), bladder dysfunction with retention and
overflow incontinence, impotence, sacral (saddle) anaesthesia, loss of
anal sphincter tone, and weakness and wasting of the gluteal muscles.
•	The symptoms may be vague, and the diagnosis difficult to make without
imaging of the spine.

Spinal cord compression

Table 30.1 Spinal cord compression syndromes
Complete compression
Sensory level just below level of lesion
Loss of all sensory modalities—may be variable at onset
Bilateral upper motor neuron weakness below lesion
Bladder and bowel dysfunction
Anterior compression
Partial loss of pain and temperature below lesion
Bilateral upper motor neuron weakness below lesion
Bladder and bowel dysfunction
Posterior compression
Loss of vibration and position below lesion
Relative sparing of pain, temperature, and touch
Band of dysthaesia at level of lesion
Lateral compression (Brown–Séquard syndrome)
Contralateral loss of pain and temperature (touch relatively spared)
Ipsilateral loss of vibration and position
Ipsilateral upper motor neuron weakness

Examination
The following may be present:
• visible or palpable gibbus at the site of a wedged or collapsed vertebra
• pain and tenderness on palpation or percussion of the vertebra over the
site of compression
• band of hyperaesthesia at the level of the lesion
• sensory and motor loss (with defects of power and sensation) at and
below the level of the lesion
• the lesion may be partial or complete, and the nature of the defect may
depend on the portion of the cord compressed.

Investigations
•	Plain X-rays may demonstrate destruction and/or collapse of a
vertebra. Paravertebral masses may sometimes also be shown. In
15–20% of cases, plain films show no abnormality.
• MRI scanning is the investigation of choice. It is advisable to include full
spine, as it is not uncommon to find >1 critical lesion. It is particularly
useful in cases of cauda equina syndrome.
• Where MRI is not available or contraindicated, myelography will show
the anatomical location of a spinal cord lesion and whether a block
is complete or not, but CT scanning will frequently yield sufficient
information without delay. Simultaneous myelography improves the
sensitivity of the investigation.

683

684

Chapter 30

Spinal cord compression

Management
• Speed is of the essence in the management of spinal cord compression.
• <10% of patients with established paraplegia from metastatic disease
walk again.
•	Dexamethasone 16–20mg should be given immediately. This can reduce
peri-tumoural oedema.
• If immediate surgery is not contemplated, the neurological status should
be assessed at least daily, so that deterioration may be detected early
and surgical intervention considered.
• Best outcomes reported with surgical decompression/stabilization of
the spine, followed by radiotherapy.
•	However, surgery is neither feasible nor appropriate in many, e.g. frailty,
extensive bone destruction, extensive disease in other sites, etc.
• Surgery indicated particularly for:
• acute-onset paraplegia
• patients with good performance status
• small-volume bone disease
• fracture dislocation
• radioresistant tumours
• spinal cord compression progressing during radiotherapy or
recurrence after radiotherapy
• to provide tissue diagnosis where cord compression is the presenting
symptom of malignancy.
• Radiation-induced oedema may exacerbate symptoms during
radiotherapy—may require increase in the dose of steroids during
radiotherapy.
• Chemotherapy rarely indicated in the treatment of spinal cord
compression, e.g. chemosensitive ° tumour such as Ewing’s.

Spinal cord compression

685

686

Chapter 30

Spinal cord compression

Bone marrow suppression
•	The major dose-limiting toxicity of cancer chemotherapy is bone
marrow suppression.
• Normally between 1010 and 1012 cells are produced by the bone marrow
every hour in a carefully controlled manner.
• Cytotoxic-induced bone marrow failure usually produces a
pancytopenia.
• First problems relate to neutropenia, usually 7–10 days after the start of
chemotherapy.
•	The risk of sepsis relates to the severity and duration of neutropenia.
• If chemotherapy causes coincident mucosal damage, e.g. stomatitis or
diarrhoea, this may provide a portal for bacteraemia.
•	Days 10–14 may develop thrombocytopenia.
•	Anaemia due to marrow suppression commonly occurs on days 14–21.
• Bone marrow compromise may also result from wide-field radiotherapy.
• Certain specific cytotoxics cause preferential damage to stem cells,
leading to delayed and prolonged myelosuppression, e.g. CCNU.
• Myelosuppression related to chemotherapy can be graded, using
defined criteria—a process useful in clinical trials and in judging the risk
in dose-intensive therapy (see Table 30.2).

Causes of bone marrow failure
•	Depletion of anatomical and physiological elements, e.g. myelofibrosis,
myelodysplasia.
• Intrinsic stem cell/precursor cell failure, e.g. aplastic anaemia,
paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria.
• Iatrogenic, e.g. chemotherapy, irradiation.
• Bone marrow infiltration, e.g. malignancy.
•	Peripheral consumption, e.g. hypersplenism.
•	Autoimmune diseases, e.g. SLE.
• Vitamin deficiency, e.g. megaloblastic anaemia.

Pancytopenia in the cancer patient
• Neutropenia—life-threatening bacterial infections (see Table 30.3).
•	Associated with:
• poor nutrition
• mucosal barrier defects
• central venous lines
• abnormal host colonization.
• Qualitative and quantitative defects.
•	Defects in chemotaxis, neutrophil degranulation.

Bone marrow suppression

Table 30.2 National Cancer Institute of Canada–Clinical Trials Group
(NCIC–CTG) expanded common toxicity criteria
Toxicity grade

0

1

2

3

4

Hb (g/dL)

WNL

10.0–normal

8.0–9.9

6.5–7.9

<6.5

Platelets (× 109/L)

WNL

7.5–normal

50.0–74.9

25.0–49.9

<25.0

WCC (× 109/L)

≥4.0

3.0–3.9

2.0–2.9

1.0–1.9

<1.0

Granulocytes

≥2.0

1.5–1.9

1.0–1.4

0.5–0.9

<0.5

Lymphocytes

≥2.0

1.5–1.9

1.0–1.4

0.5–0.9

<0.5

Hb, haemoglobin; WCC, white cell count; WNL, within normal limits.

Table 30.3 Most common microorganisms in neutropenic patients
Gram-negative bacilli

Gram-positive bacilli

Fungi

Escherichia coli

Staphylococcus aureus

Candida spp.

Klebsiella spp.

Staphylococcus epidermidis

Aspergillus spp.

Enterobacter spp.

Streptococcus pneumoniae

Mucorales

Proteus spp.

Viridans streptococci

Pseudomonas aeruginosa

Enterococci
Corynebacterium

Management of fever in a neutropenic patient
• Fever is common in patients with cancer.
• Commonly caused by infection.
• Can also be related to an underlying malignancy, blood product
transfusion, and pyrogenic medications.
• Untreated sepsis in a neutropenic patient can be rapidly fatal.
Generally, antibiotics are administered empirically after careful physical
examination and the following simple investigations:
• blood cultures (peripheral and central, if line in situ)
• sputum culture
• urine analysis and culture
• CXR
• swabs from Hickman line exit site.
Treatment should then be instituted without delay with empirical IV
broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy, particularly if the patient is toxic
or haemodynamically compromised. The widespread adoption of this
approach has reduced the mortality of neutropenic sepsis to <10%.
•	The selection of initial antibiotic regimen should be determined by
a locally agreed protocol, guided by the bacteriology department,
according to the prevalence of antibiotic sensitivity/resistance.

687

688

Chapter 30

Spinal cord compression

• Fulminant sepsis requires intensive supportive therapy, with close
monitoring and correction of hypoxia, hypotension, fluid balance,
acid–base balance, renal function, coagulopathy, etc.
• If the fever is unremitting at 48h, or there is any clinical deterioration, an
empirical change of antibiotics to a second-line antibiotic regime should
be performed.
• If infection is associated with a central venous access line, removal
of the line may be required if there is not a prompt response to
appropriate antibiotics.
• Failure to resolve the fever within 5 days may suggest other
opportunistic infections such as fungi or parasites, including Pneumocystis
carinii. Careful consideration of these diagnoses, in close consultation
with a microbiologist, is required and may require more invasive
investigation, e.g. bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage.
• Often, resolution of neutropenia is associated with resolution of
refractory fever. This process can be accelerated by the prophylactic
use of haemopoietic growth factors (e.g. G-CSF), started one day
post-chemotherapy. There is no evidence that administering G-CSF at
the time of neutropenic sepsis improves the outcome.

Thrombocytopenia in the cancer patient
•	Thrombocytopenia is commonplace in patients receiving cytotoxic
chemotherapy.
•	The trigger level to transfuse platelets is not always absolute.
• Spontaneous bleeding is unlikely if platelets are >20 × 109/L, but the
risk of traumatic bleeding is greater if <40 × 109/L.
• Most clinicians would transfuse when platelets are <10 × 109/L.
However, if there is active bleeding or sepsis, platelet transfusion should
be considered if platelets <20 × 109/L.
Careful consideration of the patient’s vascular status, clotting status, and
disease-specific risks (e.g. gastric carcinoma) will determine the threshold
for transfusion in an individual patient. Cross-matching is not required, since
patients generally receive random pooled donor platelets.
Some patients may become refractory after repeated transfusions, and
HLA-matched platelets should be used for these. Four units of fresh platelets (doubled if platelets >3 days old) should raise the count to >24–40 ×
109/L in an adult. Although frequently part of the differential diagnosis of
refractoriness, HLA allo-immunization is only one of many causes. Others
include the presence of:
• anti-platelet antibodies
•	DIC
• concomitant drugs, e.g. co-trimoxazole
• hypersplenism.

Red cell transfusion in cancer patients

Red cell transfusion in cancer patients
•	A low Hb in a patient with cancer is also common and requires careful
diagnostic evaluation.
•	Elimination of obvious causes, such as bleeding from a GI malignancy, is
important, before repeated red cell transfusions are given.
•	A blood transfusion of 1 unit should raise the Hb by 71g/dL.
•	Transfusion may reduce the platelet count, so platelet transfusion may
be required before or after blood transfusion.
• Red cell transfusion should be based on clinical criteria, rather than
absolute trigger values, but usually only given when Hb <10g/dL.
•	The use of EPO to maintain Hb values in patients with cancer is
possible. Recent research suggests that some cancers may also be
stimulated by EPO, so it is used with more caution than previously.

689

Chapter 31

Overview of acute
oncology
Overview of acute oncology 692
Further reading 693

691

692

Chapter 31

Overview of acute oncology

Overview of acute oncology
• Concept of acute oncology developed in response to:
• National Confidential Enquiry into Patient Outcome and Death
(NCEPOD)—For better, for worse? A review of the care of
patients who died within 30 days of receiving systemic anti-cancer
therapy (2008)
• National Chemotherapy Advisory Group (NCAG) report (2009)
• NICE guidelines for the management of undiagnosed cancer and the
management of malignant spinal cord compression.
• Identified the need for a systematic approach to patients with:
• cancer-related complications
• toxicity from treatment for cancer
• likely malignancy, who have not yet received a diagnosis.
• In response to the increasing burden on hospital services due to:
• an older spectrum of patients, often with more co-morbidities
• more available treatment modalities for cancer
• an increasing incidence of admissions with toxicities from cancer
treatment
• a greater reliance on local district general hospitals (DGHs) to
manage acute admissions for patients being treated at distant cancer
centres.
•	Requirement for all hospitals with an accident and emergency (A & E) to
establish an ‘acute oncology service’ to:
• coordinate the management of relevant patients (by emergency
medicine, acute medicine, and oncology)
• ensure 24h access to specialist oncology advice
• routinely audit emergency admissions of patients with cancer
• ensure compliance with NICE recommendations for the
management of undiagnosed cancer (see Chapter 26) and the
management of malignant spinal cord compression (see Chapter 30).
•	There is considerable flexibility in how each hospital chooses to
structure their acute oncology service, depending on local needs
and resources. However, typically, there will be an acute oncology
specialist nurse who should be readily contactable via the hospital
switchboard—involve them early! They should be informed of all
patients on chemotherapy who attend A & E. Additionally, they can be
extremely helpful in:
• advising in the management of cancer symptoms and toxicity caused
by treatment
• providing background information and placing the patient in
the context of their disease, e.g. prognosis, scope for (further)
treatment, etc.
• minimizing unnecessary investigations (see Chapter 26)
• liaising with the relevant specialty oncology team, either to arrange
inpatient review, swift transfer to specialist wards, or prompt
outpatient follow-up.

Further reading

Further reading
National Cancer Peer Review–National Cancer Action Team (2011). National cancer peer review
programme. Manual for cancer services: acute oncology—including metastatic spinal cord compression measures (version 1.0). London: NHS. Available at: M https://www.gov.uk/government/
uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/216121/dh_125889.pdf.

693

Chapter 32

Superior vena cava
obstruction and raised
intracranial pressure
Superior vena cava obstruction 696
Raised intracranial pressure 700

695

696

Chapter 32

Superior vena cava obstruction

Superior vena cava obstruction
Aetiology
The SVC can be obstructed by:
• external compression:
• accounts for >80% of cases of SVCO
• either from ° tumour
• or from metastatic (often paratracheal) lymphadenopathy
• direct invasion from the same causes
• a thrombus within any combination of the above.
The majority of cases are due to:
• cancer:
• 775% of cases
• any tumour involving the mediastinal nodes can cause SVCO
• most commonly associated malignancies are:
— NSCLC (750% of all cases of SVCO)
— SCLC (15–20% of patients develop SVCO)
— NHL
• rarer causes include thymoma, germ cell tumours (<5% cases)
• thrombus:
• risk factors for SVC thrombus include:
— underlying malignancy
— prothrombotic tendency
— tumour mass causing external compression
— indwelling intravascular catheters in great veins, e.g. Hickman
or PICC.
Benign causes are uncommon but include:
• post-radiotherapy fibrosis
• unusual infections, e.g. aspergillosis
• sarcoidosis.

Clinical features
Symptoms
• SVC syndrome describes the symptoms which arise following
obstruction of the SVC.
•	Acuteness of the presentation is dependent upon the rate at which
obstruction of the SVC occurs, compared to the recruitment of venous
collaterals. Typically, symptoms evolve over several weeks and then may
improve, as collaterals develop (alternative pathways for the return of
venous blood to the right atrium).
• Dyspnoea—the most commonly reported symptom, due to associated
tracheal or bronchial obstruction/compression.
• Swelling of the face—may also include the neck and arms, particularly in
the morning; often exacerbated by bending forwards or lying down.
• Cough.
• Headache—or, less commonly, confusion; due to cerebral oedema.
Signs
• Facial oedema.
• Facial plethora.
• Fixed engorgement of the external and internal jugular veins.
• Collateral veins over the anterior and lateral chest wall.

Superior vena cava obstruction

•	Arm oedema.
• Cyanosis.
•	Papilloedema (late feature).

Differential diagnoses
• Heart failure:
• jugular veins pulsating, not fixed
• other cardiac signs
• dependent oedema.
• Cardiac tamponade:
• characteristic syptoms/signs and CXR appearances.
• External jugular vein compression:
• no facial oedema
• no collaterals
• usually SCF nodes.

Investigations
•	Up to 60% of patients with SVCO due to an underlying cancer present
without a known diagnosis of malignancy.
•	Unless the patient has very severe and life-threatening symptoms (e.g.
respiratory failure due to stridor), treatment should not start, until a
clear diagnosis (including the pathology, if possible) has been made.
Consider the following.
• CXR:
• abnormal in >80% of cases
• typical findings can include:
— a right paratracheal mass,
— mediastinal lymphadenopathy
— other indications of lung cancer, e.g. pleural effusion.
• CT of the thorax:
• ideally with contrast
• usually defines the level and degree of venous blockage
• additionally assists in identifying the cause of SVCO
• can also help with staging of the cancer (if includes the abdomen)
• opportunity for percutaneous biopsy (may confirm the histology).
• Venogram:
• superior for identifying the site/extent of the obstruction
• does not identify the cause of SVCO (unless thrombus alone)
• needed if:
— there is no obvious mass causing an external compression
— if thrombolysis or stent insertion are planned.
• Cytology:
• the priority is to obtain a histological diagnosis by selecting the most
minimally invasive method possible
• e.g. cytology from SCF nodes or pleural fluid.
• Bronchoscopy:
• essential if the clinical picture and CXR suggest lung cancer, but not
yet confirmed histologically.
• Mediastinal biopsy:
• e.g. via mediastinoscopy/mediastinotomy/CT-guided biopsy
• an alternative method of obtaining histology if other attempts fail.

697

698

Chapter 32

Superior vena cava obstruction

Management
• Most patients present with symptoms of insidious onset, and there
is time to establish the diagnosis and extent of the disease, prior to
treating.
•	The prognosis is dependent on the tumour histology and stage of
disease at presentation, rather than the presence of SVCO per se.
Following a diagnosis of SVCO, the median survival is 76mo.
• If a patient is severely compromised, assess for concomitant tracheal
compression (see Chapter 33).
• In the acute situation:
• sit the patient up
• establish IV access
• 100% O , if appropriate
2
• dexamethasone 8mg bd PO/IV:
— the intent is to reduce any peri-tumoural oedema
— common practice, although evidence supporting it is lacking
— some malignancies are steroid-responsive, e.g. lymphoma.
• CXR and CT scan remain essential.
• Involve the patient’s own oncologist (if cancer known).
•	Alternatively, involve the hospital acute oncology service.
•	The aim is for subsequent investigations/management to be specifically
tailored to the underlying diagnosis.
•	Therapeutic options include:
• endovascular stenting:
— an expanding metal stent is manoeuvred to the point of the
stricture
— percutaneous insertion
— usually performed by an interventional cardiologist or a radiologist
— the treatment of choice, provided it can be instigated rapidly
— palliation is usually within 24–48h
— can be used for recurrent SVCO in previously irradiated field
— can be repeated
• thrombolysis:
— if the venogram confirms the presence of a clot
— usually combined with stent insertion (although morbidity is
increased)
— removing an associated Hickman line/PICC usually leads to
resolution of SVCO
• radiotherapy:
— the preference is to obtain histology, prior to commencing
— may make subsequent histology difficult to obtain
— no immediate symptomatic benefit
— the anticipated life expectancy must be several weeks to benefit
— the intent is usually palliative
— can be combined with stent insertion
• chemotherapy:
— may be appropriate first-line management for some
chemosensitive tumours causing SVCO, e.g. SCLC, germ cell
tumours, some lymphomas
— palliation of symptoms within 1–2wk.

Superior vena cava obstruction

Further reading
McCurdy MT, Shanholtz CB (2012). Oncologic emergencies. Crit Care Med 40, 2212–22 (a review
of the pathophysiology, diagnosis, and management of the SVC syndrome, malignant pericardial
effusion, malignant spinal cord compression, hypercalcaemia, and acute tumour lysis syndrome).

699

700

Chapter 32

Superior vena cava obstruction

Raised intracranial pressure
Background
The rigid bony skull surrounding the brain is resistant to any increase in
the volume of its contents, with any such change leading to a rise in the
ICP and/or displacement of brain structures. The skull contents comprise:
• the brain and interstitial fluid (80%)
• intravascular blood (10%)
• CSF (10%).
An increase in the volume of any one component may be accommodated by a reduction in another, in order to maintain physiological ICP
(10–20cmH2O). When malignancy involves the brain, these physiological
regulatory mechanisms are commonly overcome, leading to raised ICP.

Aetiology
• Localized mass lesions:
• neoplasms (metastasis, glioma, meningioma, etc.)
• focal oedema 2° to tumour, infarction, or trauma
• traumatic haematomas (extradural, subdural, or intracerebral)
• abscess.
• Disturbance of CSF circulation:
• obstructive hydrocephalus
• communicating hydrocephalus.
• Obstruction to major venous sinuses:
• cerebral venous thrombosis
• depressed fracture overlying major venous sinuses.
• Diffuse brain oedema:
• encephalitis, meningitis
• diffuse head injury, subarachnoid haemorrhage
• water intoxication, near drowning.
• Idiopathic:
• benign intracranial hypertension.

Pathogenesis of tumour-related raised intracranial pressure
It should be remembered that patients with malignancy may be at risk of
developing non-malignant raised ICP, as a consequence of treatment, e.g.
coagulopathy-associated intracranial haemorrhage or CNS infection in an
immunocompromised individual.
Of the neoplastic lesions causing raised ICP, more than half are due to
metastatic disease, the remainder comprising ° brain tumours, of which
gliomas are the commonest. Malignant disease in the CNS can produce a
rise in ICP through:
• mass effect
• vasogenic oedema—capillary leakage is associated with the abnormal
tumour vasculature
• haemorrhage from the tumour (especially melanoma, choriocarcinoma,
renal cancer)
• hydrocephalus:

Raised intracranial pressure

obstruction of CSF flow, e.g. pineal tumour obstructing the aqueduct
of Sylvius prevents the drainage of CSF from the third to fourth
ventricle
• meningeal metastases may reduce the reabsorption of CSF with
resulting communicating hydrocephalus.
•

Clinical features
•	Early stages—typically, symptoms are headache and nausea/vomiting.
• Often worse in the morning because of cerebral venous congestion
associated with lying supine.
• Coughing or sneezing may aggravate the headache.
•	As pressure increases, there may be cognitive impairment and
drowsiness, caused by the caudal displacement of the midbrain,
heralding a more rapid neurological deterioration.
•	Herniation of cerebral tissue through the tentorium may cause midbrain
compression, with coma associated with pupillary and oculomotor signs
and altered regulation of respiration and cardiovascular control, with
bradycardia and hypertension.
• Fundoscopy will reveal papilloedema in 50%, and there may be
associated neurological deficit.
• Specific signs may suggest the site of pathology, e.g. Parinaud’s
syndrome, with limitation of upward gaze associated with pineal
tumours.
• Raised ICP may cause hyponatraemia through SIADH.
• When the increase in ICP is more gradual, the presentation may be with
memory loss, behavioural changes, and altered gait.
• Meningeal malignancy commonly causes cranial nerve palsies, in addition
to raised ICP.

Diagnosis
Usually addressed by contrast-enhanced CT or MRI scan.
•	Unenhanced CT may show mass lesion(s) and associated haemorrhage
(hyperdense).
• Surrounding oedema and/or hydrocephalus.
• CT with IV contrast demonstrates lesion enhancement in the majority
of CNS malignancies.
• MRI undoubtedly has superior sensitivity in the detection of CNS
malignancy.
• Where CT shows a solitary tumour, MRI will reveal >1 lesion in at
least 20%.
• On MRI, the tumour appears iso- or hypodense on T1-weighted images
and hyperdense on T2, and enhances with contrast.
• MRI gives superior definition of the anatomical detail and may
demonstrate meningeal spread of the malignancy.

Management
•	Early management:
• reduce vasogenic oedema with high-dose dexamethasone (16mg
daily) with PPI gastroprotection
• in non-responding patients, osmotic diuresis with IV mannitol
(100mL of 20% solution over 1–2h).

701

702

Chapter 32

Superior vena cava obstruction

• Contact the relevant oncology team if the patient known to have
malignant disease.
•	Alternatively, contact the hospital acute oncology team.
• Further management will depend on the diagnosis and may include:
• neurosurgical intervention:
— e.g. biopsy or excision of the tumour mass, consideration of a
shunt for hydrocephalus, drainage of haematoma or abscess
• systemic chemotherapy for chemosensitive disease:
— e.g. CNS lymphoma
• cranial radiotherapy:
— e.g. multiple metastases
• antibacterial or antiviral therapy, if appropriate
• symptom control only:
— e.g. if poor prognosis, metastatic disease in the brain and
elsewhere not responding to systemic therapy.

Chapter 33

Airway obstruction
Aetiology 704
Presentation 705
Management and investigation 706
Treatment of malignant airways obstruction in
stable patients 708
Further reading 710

703

704

Chapter 33

Airway obstruction

Aetiology
Malignant
• Intrinsic upper airway disease:
• ° tumours of the:
— upper airway, e.g. bronchogenic, SCLC
— larynx, e.g. laryngeal carcinoma
— hypopharynx
— subglottis
• local extension of a bronchial tumour invading the carina
• metastatic endobronchial disease affecting the upper airway
— e.g. bronchogenic, breast, melanoma, renal cell, occasionally
carcinoid tumour.
•	Extrinsic compression:
• mediastinal neoplasm
— e.g. anaplastic thyroid cancer, germ cell tumour, thymic
carcinoma, oesophageal cancer
• lymphadenopathy:
— e.g. from (typically NHL) lymphoma or metastatic carcinoma.

Benign
• Lymphadenopathy, e.g. sarcoidosis, tuberculosis.
• Inhaled food/foreign body/mucus plug/blood clot.
• Tracheal stenosis, e.g. post-tracheostomy, granulation tissue.
• Bilateral vocal cord palsy, e.g. post-thyroid surgery.
• Infective, e.g. epiglottitis.

Presentation

Presentation
Typically insidious, e.g. slow compression by mediastinal tumour.
Occasionally acute when subcritical obstruction further compromised, e.g.
by haemorrhage, infection, or swelling.

Symptoms
• Stridor—a high-pitched noise generated by the turbulent flow of air
through a partially obstructed airway.
• Shortness of breath.
• Wheeze unresponsive to bronchodilators.
•	Exacerbation of background symptoms due to common co-morbidities,
e.g. coexistent COPD in a patient with lung cancer.
• Cough ± sputum production ± haemoptysis.
•	Recurrent (incompletely resolving) pneumonias.
• Difficulty swallowing or drooling.
• Drowsiness, collapse.

Signs
• The timing of stridor may suggest the site of the obstruction:
• inspiratory stridor—with extra-thoracic, supraglottic, or glottic
obstruction
• biphasic stridor—with glottic or subglottic obstruction
• expiratory stridor—with intrathoracic tracheal obstruction.
• Dyspnoea.
• Tachycardia.
• Cyanosis.
• Features of an underlying malignancy:
• e.g. goitre, clubbing, weight loss, Horner’s syndrome, disseminated
lymphadenopathy.

705

706

Chapter 33

Airway obstruction

Management and investigation
• The priority is to stabilize a distressed patient:
• sit the patient up
• assess for ventilatory failure by checking arterial blood gases (ABGs)
• if exhausted or in respiratory failure (i.e. arterial oxygen tension
(PaO2) ≤10kPa, arterial carbon dioxide tension (PaCO2) ≥6kPa),
consider involving the ICU or ENT
• 100% O
2
• establish IV access
• rarely, an emergency tracheostomy may be required to preserve the
airway, before appropriate treatment is initiated.
• If the patient is stable, consider the following:
• full history/obtain old notes to establish if the diagnosis/staging of
an underlying malignancy has been confirmed
• involve the patient’s own oncologist or the hospital acute oncology
service for guidance regarding the appropriate level of intervention
• FBC—to exclude anaemia as an exacerbating factor
• CXR—rarely diagnostic, but may demonstrate mediastinal widening
(lymphadenopathy), ° lung cancer, other evidence of an underlying
malignancy, e.g. pleural effusion or an exacerbating pneumonia
• CT scan of the thorax—may identify the site of obstruction and
indicate the extent of the disease (prognostic implications)
• flow–volume loops—may demonstrate the characteristic pattern of
airways obstruction
• indirect laryngoscopy—to assess the mobility of the cords
• bronchoscopy for the:
— direct visualization of the site of obstruction
— differentiation between intrinsic and extrinsic lesions
— potential histological confirmation of the diagnosis
• fibreoptic nasoendoscopy
• mediastinoscopy.

Management and investigation

707

708

Chapter 33

Airway obstruction

Treatment of malignant airways
obstruction in stable patients
• This is dependent upon:
• the underlying cause
• previous therapy
• the likely prognosis.
• Involve the patient’s own oncologist or the hospital acute oncology
service, whenever possible.
• Treatment to initiate immediately may include:
• supplemental O
2
• opiates for the distressing sensation of breathlessness ± anxiolytics,
typically benzodiazepines
• nebulized bronchodilators, e.g. salbutamol, may relieve coexistent
bronchospasm
• suction to remove pooled secretions (can exacerbate distress)
• high-dose steroids, with the aim of reducing peri-tumoural oedema
and hence partially relieving obstruction, e.g. dexamethasone 8mg
bd PO/IV. Little evidence base for this approach and no immediate
benefit.
• Longer-term treatment strategies may include:
• laser debulking:
— immediate effect
— may be helpful in bulky exophytic laryngeal tumours
— also useful if the cancer is resistant to radiotherapy, e.g.
metastatic melanoma
— benefit generally not long-lasting
— often used prior to more durable treatment, e.g. radiotherapy
• EBRT:
— therapeutic effects are delayed (4–6wk)
— used for most patients with NSCLC
— the intent is usually palliative
— appropriate in some other cancers, e.g. renal cell cancer
— occasionally initiated in the absence of histology (in clinically
urgent circumstances)
— anecdotal concern that radiotherapy may initially worsen
peri-tumoural oedema, and all such patients should receive steroids
• endobronchial brachytherapy (single fraction):
— an option in recurrent obstruction
— can be used following previous EBRT
— dependent on establishing a patent airway first, e.g. by laser
debulking
• endoluminal stenting by bronchoscopy:
— may produce useful palliation in cases of recurrent malignancy
affecting the trachea, obstruction due to extrinsic causes
— may prevent reocclusion
— causes of subsequent failure include tumour overgrowth, stent
migration
— can be repeated

MALIGNANT AIRWAYS OBSTRUCTION

surgical resection:
— limited role
— salvage therapy, e.g. for recurrent laryngeal cancer
— more rarely, may be first-line management, e.g. ° carcinoid
tumour of the trachea, solitary renal cell metastasis
• chemotherapy:
— can be an appropriate 1° treatment for airway obstruction
due to chemosensitive tumours, e.g. small-cell carcinoma,
lymphoma, germ cell tumours.
•

709

710

Chapter 33

Airway obstruction

Further reading
Gompelmann D, Eberhardt R, Herth FJ (2011). Advanced malignant lung disease: what the specialist
can offer. Respiration 82, 111–23 (this includes sections on options in the prevention and management of malignant central airway stenosis).

Chapter 34

Thromboembolic and
cardiac emergencies
Thromboembolic disease and cancer 712
Disseminated intravascular coagulation and malignant
disease 715
Cardiac disease and cancer 716
Further reading 718

711

712

Chapter 34

Thromboembolic & cardiac emergencies

Thromboembolic disease and cancer
Scale of the problem
• Up to 90% of cancer patients exhibit activation of the coagulation
pathways.
• 4–20% develop DVT and/or PE (VTE).
• The risk has increased over the last 20y, likely due to anti-cancer
treatments, e.g. hormone therapy, chemotherapy, and, more recently,
targeted therapies against angiogenesis.
•	Arterial thrombotic events are also increased (1–4%).
• May account for 9% of deaths in patients receiving chemotherapy.
•	Prophylactic treatment should be effective for many at-risk patients.
•	Patients who present with idiopathic thrombosis, without a history of
malignancy, are at increased risk of occult cancer and warrant CXR, full
physical examination, including rectal and gynaecological assessment,
FOBs, and PSA (only patients with positive clinical findings require
further investigation, e.g. CT scan).

Mechanisms of coagulopathy
The molecular basis is uncertain; proposed causes include:
• the activation of coagulation by tissue factor in tumours
• factor X-activating cysteine protease
• mucinous glycoproteins
• MET oncogene activation.

Prevention of venous thromboembolism
Prophylaxis with low-molecular-weight heparin (e.g. dalteparin 3400–5000
units s/c daily) reduces the risk of VTE by 40–80% and is recommended for:
• patients undergoing major cancer surgery
• patients with cancer who are confined to bed, e.g. acute medical
admissions
• ambulatory patients receiving chemotherapy who are deemed to be at
high risk (see Table 34.1):
• high-risk pathology
• high-risk treatments
• past history of DVT.
Contraindications to prophylactic anticoagulation include:
• active bleeding, e.g. ° tumour, CNS metastasis, peptic ulcer
• thrombocytopenia or clotting dysfunction, e.g. hepatic metastases.
Randomized trials using an alternative approach—low-dose warfarin 1mg
daily—in patients receiving chemotherapy via central venous access have
shown this to be ineffective in reducing thrombotic events, although some
have demonstrated a reduction in line-related costs. Indeed, experience has
shown that it is necessary to frequently monitor the INR when warfarin
is given during chemotherapy, not least because of interactions between
several cytotoxics and warfarin.

Thromboembolic disease and cancer

Table 34.1 Risk factors for VTE in patients with malignant disease
Patient-related factors:
• co-morbidity, e.g. obesity, infection, COPD, arteriopathy
• past history of VTE
Cancer-related factors:
• ° site—GI tract, brain, lung, gynaecological
• metastatic disease
Treatment-related factors:
• recent surgery
• current hospitalization
• ongoing chemotherapy or hormone therapy
• anti-angiogenic therapy
• central venous catheter

Treatment of venous thromboembolism in cancer patients
Standard treatment of VTE with an initial therapeutic dose of lowmolecular-weight heparin and warfarin is problematic in cancer patients
because of:
• an unpredictable response to warfarin, e.g. deranged hepatic
metabolism in metastatic disease, drug interactions, e.g. capecitabine
• inconvenience of frequent monitoring of INR
• high rate of recurrent VTE on warfarin
• high rate of bleeding on warfarin
• for many patients, the preferred option is long-term therapeutic dose
of low-molecular-weight heparin injections, and promising results with
this approach suggest it may also have an added benefit of enhancing the
anti-tumour effects of chemotherapy, e.g. in SCLC.
Thrombolytic treatment
Urokinase infusion indicated if:
•	PE with severe right ventricular dysfunction
• massive iliofemoral thrombosis with the risk of limb gangrene
Vena cava filter
• Indicated for patients with VTE and contraindication to anticoagulant
therapy.
•	Also patients with recurrent VTE, despite adequate therapy with
low-molecular-weight heparin.
Both thrombolysis and IVC filter insertion require the assistance of interventional radiologists.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia
Falling platelet counts during heparin therapy can be associated with severe
thrombotic tendency, even resulting in massive thrombosis and limb gangrene. Management comprises the following:
• withdraw heparin
• consider switch to danaparoid, rather than warfarin, particularly if the
platelet count does not rise immediately.

713

714

Chapter 34

Thromboembolic & cardiac emergencies

Arterial thromboembolic disease
During the early randomized studies of adjuvant chemotherapy and hormone therapy for breast cancer in the 1970–80s, it was noted that 1.6%
of pre-menopausal women developed arterial thromboses when treated
with both chemotherapy and tamoxifen. Since then, other observations
have included:
• sporadic cases of MI and cerebrovascular accident (CVA) reported
during chemotherapy for testicular cancer since 1980
• association with smoking, obesity, elevated cholesterol, diabetes
• more frequent cases of acute lower limb ischaemia, as well as cardiac
and cerebrovascular events, following cisplatin-based chemotherapy for,
e.g. lung cancer and other smoking-related malignancies
• carboplatin appears less likely to cause vascular damage
• the mechanism underlying acute ischaemia post-chemotherapy still
uncertain
• other cytotoxics, e.g. fluorouracil and capecitabine, associated with
coronary artery spasm, rather than thrombosis.
There have been no formal trials of prophylactic therapy against arterial
thromboembolism, but it would seem prudent to adopt the following:
• low-dose aspirin and a statin should be considered for smokers not
already taking these, who are receiving chemotherapy, in particular
cisplatin
• unless there is strong evidence of inferior anti-cancer efficacy (e.g.
testicular cancer), carboplatin should be considered, instead of cisplatin,
for patients with existing vascular disease requiring platinum-based
chemotherapy.

DIC AND MALIGNANT DISEASE

Disseminated intravascular coagulation
and malignant disease
Definition
DIC is an acquired disorder characterized by widespread activation of
coagulation, resulting in:
• intravascular formation of fibrin
• thrombotic occlusion of small and mid-sized vessels
• multiorgan failure
• severe bleeding.

Aetiology in cancer patients
• Septicaemia, usually in combination with neutropenia.
• Direct effect of malignancy:
• 5%, particularly prostate and GI cancers
• 15% of patients with acute leukaemia (especially acute
pro-myelocytic leukaemia).

Pathogenesis
• Thrombin generation is mediated by plasma tissue factor, released in
response to infection or by the tumour itself.
•	Anticoagulation pathways are impaired, with low levels of
antithrombin III.
• Fibrinolysis is suppressed by plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1.
• The combination of increased formation of fibrin and its inadequate
removal results in disseminated intravascular thrombosis.

Clinical and laboratory features
• Bleeding tendency.
• Thrombotic organ damage.
•	Renal failure.
• Thrombocytopenia.
•	Prolonged clotting times.
•	Presence of fibrin degradation products in plasma.
•	Low plasma antithrombin III.

Management
• The mainstay of treatment is to tackle the underlying cause:
• appropriate antibiotic therapy for sepsis
• effective treatment for the underlying malignancy.
• Supportive measures appropriate to the individual presentation:
• heparin anticoagulation
• replace platelets and clotting factors (fresh frozen plasma if bleeding)
• anti-fibrinolytic agents, e.g. tranexamic acid.
Unless the underlying pathology is sensitive to treatment, the prognosis is
very poor indeed.

715

716

Chapter 34

Thromboembolic & cardiac emergencies

Cardiac disease and cancer
Patients with cancer frequently develop common cardiac problems such as
infarction, failure, or arrhythmias. This can be unrelated to their malignancy,
due to smoking, ageing, infection, etc. Alternatively, cardiac problems may
arise through:
• direct tumour extension to the pericardium, heart, or great vessels
• thromboembolic disease, e.g. PE
• tumour embolus, e.g. from hepatic metastasis to the right side of
the heart
• metabolic effects of cancer, e.g. hypokalaemic alkalosis due to ectopic
ACTH production, release of adrenaline by phaeochromocytoma, or of
5-HT3 by carcinoid tumour
• effects of treatment:
• post-operative arrhythmias
• chemotherapy, e.g. anthracyclines, trastuzumab, sunitinib may all
reduce the left ventricular ejection fraction
• radiotherapy, e.g. chest wall irradiation after surgery for breast
cancer, with late effects on the coronary arteries and cardiac muscle.

Pericardial effusion
Thoracic malignancies, such as lung cancer, mesothelioma, or metastatic
disease, can result in pericardial effusion.
•	Presents with acute dyspnoea ± central chest pain.
•	Rapid accumulation of fluid or pericardial stiffening due to the
tumour can result in tamponade, with worsening symptoms, including
orthopnoea, cough, and syncope.
•	Heart sounds muffled ± pericardial rub and apex beat not detectable.
•	Low BP and pulsus paradoxus.
•	Low-voltage ECG.
• Typical CXR appearances—increased cardiothoracic ratio, enlarged
globular heart.
• Confirm by echocardiography.
•	Aspiration and cytological examination of the effusion may aid diagnosis.
• Symptomatic collections may require urgent assessment and
intervention.
• Can be drained by needle (usually under radiological control) or by
surgical procedure of ‘pericardial window’ formation.
• Treat the underlying cancer.

Marantic endocarditis
Non-bacterial thrombotic endocarditis is characterized by:
• platelet–fibrin vegetations on the cardiac valves (especially mitral and
aortic)
• 40% have emboli (digital arteries, spleen, kidney, brain, heart)
• may have associated DIC.
Treat with low-molecular-weight heparin and, if possible, an effective systemic treatment for malignancy.

Cardiac disease and cancer

Tumours of the heart and great vessels
• Metastatic disease involving the heart, found in 1.5–21% of autopsies.
• ° cardiac tumours are rare.
•	Present with arrhythmias, heart failure, valvular dysfunction and
murmurs, and arterial emboli.
• 75% benign, e.g. atrial myxoma.
• 25% malignant:
• rhabdomyosarcoma, leiomyosarcoma
• poor prognosis, with high risk of metastatic disease.
• Tumours of large arteries and veins also very rare, the latter presenting
with extensive DVT.

717

718

Chapter 34

Thromboembolic & cardiac emergencies

Further reading
Lee AY (2007). The effects of low molecular weight heparins on venous thromboembolism and
survival in patients with cancer. Thromb Res 120 (Suppl 2), S121–7.
Lyman GH, Khorana AA, Falanga A, et al. (2007). American Society of Clinical Oncology guideline: recommendations for venous thromboembolism prophylaxis and treatment in patients with
cancer. J Clin Oncol 25, 5490–505.
Mandala M, Falanga A, Roila F (2008). Management of venous thromboembolism in cancer
patients: ESMO clinical recommendations. Ann Oncol 19 (Suppl 2), ii126–7.

Chapter 35

Obstruction
Intestinal obstruction 720
Urinary tract obstruction 724
Biliary obstruction 726
Further reading 730

719

720

Chapter 35

Obstruction

Intestinal obstruction
Aetiology
Cancer-related intestinal obstruction usually affects the colon or small
intestine and is predominantly associated with ovarian (5–51%) or colonic
(10–28%) cancers.
The obstruction may be intraluminal (e.g. colonic cancer) or extramural
compression (e.g. ovarian).
In ovarian and cervical cancers, there are often multiple levels of obstruction due to disseminated peritoneal disease.
Obstruction in a patient with a previously treated cancer may also be
due to tumour recurrence or to non-malignant causes such as adhesions or
radiotherapy-related strictures, and the aetiology requires careful consideration in each individual case.
Functional obstruction may also be caused by cancer-related or
drug-related (vincristine) autonomic neuropathy, direct involvement of the
mesenteric plexus, or ileus (e.g. due to perforation).
In cancer-related obstruction, the degree of obstruction is usually progressive over time, in particular if related to the tumour.
However, it is important to remember that less common, but reversible,
causes include electrolyte disturbances (hypercalcaemia or hypokalaemia),
faecal impaction, post-operative adhesions, or herniae.

Presentation
• Symptoms—nausea, vomiting (gastric outlet—large-volume projectile;
large bowel—faeculent), colicky pain, constipation, distension, increased
bowel sounds.
• Signs—distension, dehydration, succussion splash (gastric outlet
obstruction), bowel sounds (may be absent or high-pitched), pain,
peritonism. Pain and peritonism are grave signs and indicate the need
for consideration of an urgent intervention.

Investigations
Erect and supine plain abdominal radiographs are the first-line investigation.
These often confirm the presence of an obstruction but rarely identify its
aetiology. Where the diagnosis is not clear, the standard investigation is CT,
as it indicates the level of obstruction and usually confirms the underlying
cause. An alternative for suspected colonic obstruction is an unprepared
contrast enema.
Occasionally, endoscopy of the upper or lower intestinal tract may allow
the visualization of the area of obstruction, allowing biopsy, confirmation of
the diagnosis, and planning of appropriate therapy.

Management options
Appropriate resuscitation will be guided by clinical and biochemical assessments of dehydration and electrolyte disturbance.
IV fluids and NG suction are usually instigated but may not be necessary
if patients have advanced disease and are following a palliative pathway. An
NG tube relieves the discomfort and nausea associated with obstruction
but may predispose to aspiration.

Intestinal obstruction

If active treatment is appropriate, surgery may need to be considered
after careful multidisciplinary discussion. It is important that electrolyte and
fluid balance is optimized prior to surgery to reduce the risk of perioperative complications.

Medical management
• Inoperable intestinal obstruction can be managed medically. This may
permit the patient to be cared for at home. The patient can eat and
drink small amounts. Treatment approaches vary, depending on the
degree of obstruction present. The aim is to remove the debilitating
feeling of nausea and reduce the frequency of vomiting to a level
acceptable to the patient.
•	The symptoms to be palliated are nausea, vomiting, pain, and
constipation. Oral medication may be poorly absorbed in GI
obstruction, and the s/c or rectal route should be considered.
Pain
For colic, an anti-spasmodic—hyoscine butylbromide 80–120mg over 24h via
continuous s/c infusion—is usually effective. Avoid prokinetic anti-emetics
(metoclopramide) if colic is a problem. Pain from cancer or metastases usually requires parenteral analgesics (e.g. diamorphine given s/c over 24h via
a syringe driver, or transdermal fentanyl).
Nausea and vomiting
• If partial obstruction without colic is present, metoclopramide,
80–120mg over 24h s/c, may stimulate an effective bowel motility. This
can be combined with high-dose dexamethasone, 16mg/24h, to reduce
peri-tumoural oedema and also serve as an anti-emetic. As vomiting is
controlled, introduce oral laxatives, as tolerated.
• If the obstruction is complete or if colic is present, cyclizine,
100–150mg/24h s/c, is given with hyoscine butylbromide. Haloperidol,
5–15mg/24h, is a suitable alternative. Haloperidol, cyclizine, and
hyoscine are all miscible with diamorphine in a driver syringe.
•	Levomepromazine is a highly specific 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT2)
antagonist and has inhibitory effects on other emetic pathway receptors.
It is a useful alternative to the aforementioned anti-emetics and is
also miscible with diamorphine. If vomiting persists, then octreotide,
300–600mg/24h via continuous s/c infusion—a somatostatin
analogue—can be used. This drug is anti-secretory and promotes the
reabsorption of electrolytes, and hence water from the bowel.
• If the obstruction is due to a very chemosensitive tumour, such
as a lymphoma, small-cell tumours, or testicular cancer, a trial of
chemotherapy may be appropriate. However, this is potentially
hazardous and requires close monitoring. In the case of lymphomas of
GI origin, the chemotherapy can be very effective, but treatment may
lead to perforation, and so this must be borne in mind.
•	The patient with an oesophageal or duodenal obstruction may benefit from
local radiotherapy. If this is an option, a stent should be inserted first, as the
benefit from the latter may not be seen for 6wk, and the radiotherapy itself
may lead to worsening obstruction in the short term due to oedema.
• Stenting is also an option for left-sided colonic obstructions, either as a
definitive procedure or as a bridge to further therapy.

721

722

Chapter 35

Obstruction

Surgical treatment
The surgical options available will depend on the location and stage of the
tumour.
Patients with oesophageal tumours may present with obstruction,
reporting dysphagia. In such cases, the patient will require a full work-up to
determine if the lesion is respectable, and, if so, an oesophagectomy may
be appropriate. If not, then a metal stent may be inserted to offer palliation. For proximal tumours, which are commonly squamous carcinomas,
radiotherapy may also be beneficial to aid in the relief of obstruction. Laser
therapy may also be beneficial in palliating an obstructed oesophagus.
Gastric outlet obstruction due to carcinoma may be treated by gastrectomy or stenting. Gastrectomy may be worthwhile, even in advanced disease, as a means of symptom resolution.
The relief of duodenal obstruction will depend on the local extent of the
disease, as well as the presence of metastases. Lesions in the periampullary region (pancreatic head, ampulla, common bile duct, and duodenum)
may all cause duodenal obstruction, this being the case in 30% of patients
presenting with these tumours. These lesions have to be carefully staged,
as, by the time the duodenum is obstructed, the superior mesenteric vessels or coeliac axis may be invaded by the tumour, rendering the lesion
unresectable. In such cases, options in a fit individual would include a biliary
and gastric bypass or combined biliary and duodenal stenting. For obstruction of the distal duodenum, resection or bypass are appropriate options,
as stenting is often not possible—again there are important anatomical
considerations.
For localized obstruction of the jejunum and ileum, resection and anastomosis are appropriate, and, for advanced disease, an internal bypass may be
necessary, or even an ileostomy, to relieve the obstruction.
Management of colonic obstruction depends on the location and extent
of the disease. The preferred option is resection and ° anastomosis,
where possible, with on-table lavage of the colon if this is indicated. For
obstructing left-sided lesions, a Hartmann’s procedure is another option
and includes excision of the °, with a colostomy, and allows for potential
re-anastomosis. The whole colon must be evaluated carefully to look for
synchronous ° tumours, as most emergency colectomies are performed
without prior evaluation of the colon, and the presence of an additional
tumour may change the nature of the operation performed. The caecum
must also be carefully inspected, as, if this is not viable, a total colectomy
may be required.
For distal lesions, if resection is not possible, then a defunctioning colostomy may be the only option.
The risks of bowel surgery in patients with advanced cancer include:
• multiple levels of bowel obstruction due to intraperitoneal tumour
seeding
• poor anaesthetic risk due to generalized debility
• poor surgical healing due to malnutrition, chemotherapy, or tumour
seeding
• high risk of thromboembolic events
• early mortality and morbidity.

Intestinal obstruction

There is an increasing use of laparoscopic procedures to deal with obstruction, in particular that of the proximal GI tract, although, at present, the
reported experience is mainly from specialized units. It is more difficult to
deal with colonic obstruction laparoscopically, as the space within the peritoneal cavity is limited in the presence of a markedly distended colon, and
so there is currently little in the way of supportive evidence. Laparoscopic
surgery is beneficial, as it is associated with less surgical stress and a more
rapid recovery. However, the danger of perforating distended bowel with
the trocar is very real—such laparoscopic surgery requires an expert and
experienced operator.

723

724

Chapter 35

Obstruction

Urinary tract obstruction
Aetiology
The commonest causes of urinary tract obstruction in patients with
cancer are:
• carcinoma of the prostate or bladder (trigone)—when the urethra or
ureteric orifices become occluded or involved
• carcinoma of the cervix or other carcinoma involving the pelvis, leading
to obstruction or involvement of the ureters
• retroperitoneal mass compressing the ureters—this may be malignant
in nature
•	TCC of the ureters
• fibrosis following surgery, chemotherapy, or radiotherapy.

Symptoms
The gradual onset of unilateral ureteric obstruction is often asymptomatic.
It is often found as an incidental finding of hydronephrosis on a radiological
scan requested for other symptoms or for restaging.
Acute ureteric obstruction may cause painful spasm or dull aching in the
flank. There can be associated radiation of the pain in the distribution of
the L1 nerve root. Visible haematuria 2° to the obstructing process can
cause clot colic.
Bilateral gradual obstruction becomes symptomatic, as the serum urea
rises above 25mmol/L. The symptoms are related to acute renal failure.
Ultimately, the kidney injury leads to anuria, with lethargy, drowsiness, confusion, and nausea.

Investigations
Selective use of abdominal ultrasound, IVU (contraindicated in uraemic
patients), cystoscopy and retrograde ureteric studies, isotope renogram
(assesses the function of each kidney), and CT scan of the abdomen are helpful.
CT of the abdomen with IV contrast as a single modality provides the
most information by defining any extra-ureteric pathology, although care
must be taken with the use of IV contrast in renal impairment Contrast
should be used with caution for two reasons. First, the contrast will not
be excreted, as creatinine rises and the renal function deteriorates. More
importantly, the contrast agents are nephrotoxic and can cause further
patient compromise
CT is now replacing the IVU as the imaging of choice. Cystoscopy is useful to define intravesical pathology.

Management options
Bladder outlet obstruction causes symptoms of acute urinary retention
or chronic obstruction, with overflow incontinence relieved by urethral or
suprapubic catheterization. Bladder outflow surgery can also be used to
relieve the symptoms.
Ureteric decompression can be accomplished by:
• percutaneous nephrostomy, with or without antegrade stenting
• cystoscopy and retrograde placement of an internal ureteric stent. This
may be difficult if the ureteric orifices cannot be identified.

Urinary tract obstruction

Ureteric stents need to be replaced every 6mo in patients with cancer,
although modern stents may last longer. With extrinsic compression of the
ureters, patients can suffer with recurrent admissions due to stent blockages. So permanent nephrostomies may be better, in terms of the QoL in
the terminal setting.
Percutaneous nephrostomy can be a temporary measure and appropriate in the following specific circumstances:
• undiagnosed malignant disease
• prostatic or cervical °, with an available treatment modality with a
reasonable chance of response
• in patients with malignancy in the pelvis, it may be impossible to
cannulate the ureters, and a nephrostomy may be essential.
Patients with advanced cancer can gain symptomatic benefit from nephrostomy/ureteric stent insertion. However, since a nephrostomy drain may
remain in situ for several months, it is prone to dislodgement, infection, and
leakage around the site. Double pigtail ureteric stents should be inserted, in
preference to a long-term nephrostomy (where possible).
Complications include transient bacteraemia, sepsis, haemorrhage, and
obstructive encrustations. Care must be taken in these patients to ensure
dehydration, fluid overload, and hyperkalaemia are corrected. The latter
is a true emergency, and ultimately it will lead to arrhythmias and cardiac
arrest.
• In very selected patients, there are indications for dialysis such as
increasing hyperkalaemia, fluid overload resistant to diuretics, and
severe renal failure and acidosis. Other problems may include a
significant bleeding tendency due to platelet dysfunction. Hypertension
is occasionally a problem and requires fluid management and/or
anti-hypertensives.
•	Any manipulation of the obstructed urinary tract requires antibiotic
cover, as these patients are prone to bacteraemia/septicaemia.
•	Patients with urinary tract obstruction require MDT management;
prolonged survival, even with pelvic malignant disease, is still possible. In
one series, the median survival was 26wk.
•	There were four groups in this series:
• group 1—° untreated malignancy
• group 2—recurrent malignancy with further treatment options
• group 3—recurrent malignancy with no further treatment options
• group 4—benign disease as a consequence of previous treatment.
•	Patients in groups 1 and 2 had similar survival—median survival of 27
and 20wk, 5y survival of 20% and 10%, respectively.
•	Patients in group 3 had a poor prognosis, with median survival of 6wk
and no patient surviving beyond 1y.
•	Patients in group 4 had the best outlook, with a 5y survival of 64%.
If the patient has advanced pelvic malignancy, for which there is no treatment, then the QoL and the patient’s own wishes should be considered,
before intervention to relieve the obstruction is initiated.

725

726

Chapter 35

Obstruction

Biliary obstruction
Aetiology
There are many causes of jaundice in the patient with a history of malignant
disease, and the jaundice may have an aetiology other than the malignant
process itself.
Classically, the causes of jaundice can be divided as follows:
• pre-hepatic—increased production of bilirubin:
• haemolytic anaemia
• intrahepatic—decreased uptake of bilirubin:
• Gilbert’s syndrome
• drugs
• portacaval shunts
• extra-hepatic—decreased excretion of bilirubin:
• hepatotoxic drugs
• viral hepatitis
• obstruction of the intra- or extra-hepatic biliary tree.
It is important, in principle, not to focus only on the cancer causes in every
patient with jaundice who has a history of cancer. Jaundice is not always
due to the recurrence of the cancer or complications of same.
Patients must be carefully assessed to ensure that they are adequately investigated (where appropriate), so that non-cancerous causes of the obstructive jaundice can be dealt with appropriately. In terms of a malignant process,
jaundice may be the initial presentation, such as in the case of pancreatic carcinoma, or may represent diffuse infiltration of a metastatic tumour. It is therefore
critical to obtain an accurate diagnosis to optimize treatment.

History
•	Abdominal pain.
• Duration of jaundice and whether the jaundice fluctuates.
• Fever.
• Itching.
• Dark stools and pale urine.
• In particular, it is important to assess whether or not the patient has
signs of sepsis. Rigors may be reported and would indicate the need for
consideration of an urgent biliary decompression.
•	A careful drug history is important, as a number of drugs can cause
hepatic toxicity, e.g. cisplatin and oxaliplatin can cause cholestasis.
Similarly, some of the anti-metabolites, such as cytarabine, may cause
self-limiting abnormalities of the liver function, often with a cholestatic
pattern. A similar pattern can arise with mercaptopurine and MTX:
• some hormonal agents, such as tamoxifen, can occasionally cause
abnormal liver function with a fatty liver
• it is also important to take a detailed history of other drug therapies,
such as paracetamol, antibiotics, and antifungal agents, all of which
can cause liver abnormalities
• total parenteral nutrition can cause fatty infiltration and intrahepatic
cholestasis.

Biliary obstruction

Examination
If there has been a previous malignancy, there may be signs of disease recurrence such as an abdominal mass. There may be additional signs, including
anaemia, evidence of chronic liver disease, a palpable liver, the presence
of ascites, or a palpable spleen. The discovery of a palpable gall bladder,
in the presence of painless jaundice, is associated with an aetiology such as
pancreatic carcinoma.

Courvoisier’s law
If, in the presence of painless jaundice, the gall bladder is palpable, then
the cause is unlikely to be gallstones.

Investigations
Depending upon the history and examination, targeted investigations
should be performed and include the following:
• FBC to determine Hb and WCC
•	LFTs, including transaminases, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT),
bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase
• all patients who are undergoing active management and treatment
require coagulation studies, because of a deficiency of the vitamin
K-dependent coagulation factors in jaundiced patients
• a CRP level is useful in patients with evidence of infection to monitor
the response to treatment
• other studies, such as viral titres, autoantibody screen, and haemolysis
screen, may be indicated in selected patients
• ultrasound is the most important screening radiological investigation, as
it can differentiate many aetiologies of jaundice:
• gallstones
• demonstrate intra- or extra-hepatic biliary dilatation
• tumour masses in the region of the pancreas (better seen on CT)
• liver metastases
• nodes around the porta hepatis and proximal biliary tree (the lower
end of the common bile duct is not well visualized)
• CT scanning is excellent for the assessment of hepatic and pancreatic
lesions. A triple-phase scan is indicated to include pre-contrast, arterial
and venous phases
• MRI scanning, in the format of MRCP, gives excellent visualization of the
biliary tree. With the aid of specific contrast media, the liver is also well
delineated. Some units also use MRI preferentially to evaluate pancreatic
lesions
• the choice of the initial cross-sectional imaging is down to local
preference and expertise. In many cases, CT and MRI are employed
•	ERCP is no longer used for diagnostic purposes, but it does have a
number of important roles:
•	ERCP is indicated as a therapeutic modality in patients with
obstructive jaundice and, in particular, cholangitis. Indeed, cholangitis
is an indication for emergency ERCP. The insertion of a stent or the
performance of a sphincterotomy allows the drainage of infected

727

728

Chapter 35

Obstruction

bile. If a patient with malignant obstructive jaundice is deemed
not suitable for surgical intervention, a stent may be inserted as
a palliative procedure. Metal stents are preferred when there
is reasonable life expectancy (>3mo). Stents may also be used
if resection is planned, although there is debate as to potential
deleterious effects of stenting of the distal bile duct on surgical
outcome. Most surgeons prefer opting for surgery and no stent
if bilirubin levels are <200 micromoles/L. Plastic stents were
traditionally used if surgery was contemplated for lower bile duct
obstruction, but metallic stents are not an undue hindrance to
surgery and may be preferable if neoadjuvant therapy is planned. For
proximal bile duct lesions, drainage of sepsis is critical to outcome,
and multiple drains may be required to drain obstructed liver
segments. In the case of proximal lesions, metallic stents are not
desirable, as they impair the assessment of the tumour
•	ERCP allows for the collection and cytological examination of bile
and brushings. Biopsies of tissue are also possible
•	PTC may be used, in conjunction with ERCP, to insert stents for
difficult hilar lesions, such as cholangiocarcinoma (Klatskin’s tumour),
or extrinsic compression by nodes at the porta hepatis. In rare
instances, such as when previous surgery precludes access to the
biliary tree or intubation of the ampulla fails, PTC may be the °
means of inserting a stent and relieving jaundice
•	EUS is an important 2° tool in the evaluation of obstructive jaundice,
both to evaluate the resectability of known pancreatic head masses
and to determine the aetiology of obstructive jaundice in patients
without evidence of a mass on cross-sectional imaging. Tissue
biopsies may be obtained under direct vision.
Points of caution
• Generalized intrahepatic duct dilatation is uncommon when there
are multiple liver metastases compressing the ducts, when sclerosing
cholangitis is present, and when there is liver cirrhosis.
•	Any intervention on the biliary tree must be covered with antibiotics,
as there is a risk of sepsis. Coagulation must be checked and corrected,
as necessary. Occasionally, liver biopsy is appropriate in the jaundiced
patient with a suspected malignancy. Liver biopsy of suspected
malignant lesions is not advocated if patients are being considered as
candidates for surgery because of the risk of tumour dissemination.
However, a biopsy of ‘normal’ parenchyma will provide information
on the presence of parenchymal liver disease that may influence the
extent of surgery possible. Biopsies can be performed under ultrasound
control or laparoscopically.

Biliary obstruction

Management
The management of the jaundiced patient depends on the aetiology of
the jaundice. It is crucial that patients with malignant causes for their biliary obstruction are all discussed in an HPB MDT setting. This ensures they
have the best available treatment and also that all cases of malignancy are
recorded on the cancer network database. The patient’s views, as well as
their family’s wishes, should be considered, especially when the jaundice is
due to recurrence of a previously treated carcinoma.
Each patient with a malignancy should be evaluated for potential resectability by an HPB surgeon sitting as a member of the MDT, since changes
in surgical techniques and perioperative outcomes have lead to a significant
expansion in the indications for surgery in this patient group.
For patients not suitable for resection, palliation may be by means of
stenting or surgical bypass. Stenting is currently the preferred option, as
this tends to have a lower early morbidity and mortality than a surgical
bypass. The main problem with stents is that they can occlude with sludge
or tumour growth, with subsequent recurrence of jaundice and sepsis.
Metallic stents are less prone to blocking and are inserted when patients
have a life expectancy of >3mo, as this is the typical duration of success
with a plastic stent.
With advances in laparoscopic surgery, laparoscopic biliary bypass is now
technically feasible, and, for the 30% of patients with concurrent gastric
outlet obstruction, surgery can deal with both issues.
Hepatorenal syndrome
• Classically, this syndrome occurs in obstructive jaundice, and it is
essentially acute oliguric renal failure, occurring without intrinsic renal
disease.
•	There is intense renal cortical vasoconstriction, with increased renal
vascular resistance, decreased GFR, peripheral vasodilatation, and
sodium and water retention.
•	This diagnosis should be considered in patients with liver dysfunction,
obstructive jaundice, rising serum creatinine in the absence of fluid
losses, dehydration, renal disease, or nephrotoxic drugs, and in patients
who are not septic.
• Investigations should exclude other causes of renal insufficiency—serum
and urinary electrolytes, creatinine clearance, blood cultures, urinary
tract ultrasound (to exclude urinary obstruction).
• Investigations usually reveal high serum creatinine, low creatinine
clearance, low serum sodium, low urinary output, and low urinary sodium.
• Management is complex and should be in the setting of an MDT
involving renal physicians. Nephrotoxic drugs should be withdrawn.
Sepsis should be corrected. Fluid and electrolyte imbalance should be
corrected.
• Selected patients may warrant dialysis with correction of the obstructive
jaundice. However, the prognosis is often poor, with only a 3mo survival
rate of 20%.
• Discussion with the patient and family, in an MDT setting, with
colleagues from the appropriate specialties, is essential for these ill
patients with a poor prognosis.

729

730

Chapter 35

Obstruction

Further reading
Agarwal AK, Mandal S, Singh S (2007). Biliary obstruction in gallbladder cancer is not sine qua non of
inoperability. Ann Surg Oncol 14, 2831–7.
Baron JH (2001). Expandable metal stents for the treatment of cancerous obstructions of the gastrointestinal tract. N Engl J Med 344, 1681–917.
Dubovsky EV, Russell CD (1992). Advances in radionuclide evaluation of urinary tract obstruction.
Abdom Imaging 23, 17–26.
Garden OJ (2007). Hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgery. Edinburgh: Elsevier Saunders, pp. 323–30.
Helyer LK, Lae CHL, Butler M, Last LD, Smith AJ, Wright FC (2007). Surgery as a bridge to palliative chemotherapy in patients with malignant bowel obstruction from colorectal cancer. Ann Surg
Oncol 14, 1264–71.
Hosono S, Ohtani H, Arimoto Y, Kanamiya Y (2007). Endoscopic stenting versus gastroenterotomy
for palliation of malignant gastroduodenal obstruction: a meta analysis. J Gastroenterol 42, 283–90.
Lau MW, Temperley S, Mehta R, Johnson RJ, Barnard RJ, Clarke NW (1995). Urinary tract obstruction and nephrostomy drainage in pelvic malignant disease. Br J Urol 76, 565–9.
McIntyre JF, Eifel PJ, Levenback C (1995). Ureteral stricture as a late complication of radiotherapy for
stage 1B carcinoma of uterine cervix. Cancer 75, 836–43.
O'Connor DB, Winter DC (2012). The role of laparoscopy in the management of acute small-bowel
obstruction: a review of over 2,000 cases. Surg Endosc 26, 12–17.
Rubin SC (2000). Management of intestinal obstruction in the patient with ovarian cancer. Oncology
14, 1159–63.
Sohn TA, Lillemoe KD, Cameron JC, Huang JJ, Pitt HA, Yeo CJ (1999). Surgical palliation of unresectable periampullary adenocarcinoma in the 1990s. J Am Coll Surg 188, 658–66.
Soriano A, Davis MP (2011). Malignant bowel obstruction: individualized treatment near the end of
life. Cleve Clin J Med 78, 197–206.
Taylor MR, Lalani N (2013). Adult small bowel obstruction. Acad Emerg Med 20, 527–44.
Tilney HS, Lovegrove RE, Purkayastha S, et al. (2007). Comparison of colonic stenting and open
surgery for malignant large bowel obstruction. Surg Endosc 21, 225–33.
Watanapa P, Williamson RCN (1992). Surgical palliation for pancreatic cancer: developments during
the past two decades. Br J Surg 79, 8–20.
Yachia D (1997). Overview: role of stents in urology. J Endourol 11, 379–82.

Chapter 36

Biochemical crises
Malignant hypercalcaemia 732
Hyponatraemia 734
Hyperkalaemia 736
Hyperglycaemia and hypoglycaemia 737
Acute renal failure 738
Tumour lysis syndrome 740

731

732

Chapter 36

Biochemical crises

Malignant hypercalcaemia
Urgent intervention is required if free Ca2+ is ≥3.0mmol/L.
• Hypercalcaemia complicates 10–20% of all cancers.
• Occurs in solid tumours and leukaemias.
•	Especially associated with breast cancer, myeloma, carcinoma of the
lung (especially squamous cell), prostate cancer, and lymphoma.
• Unusual as the presenting feature of malignancy.
• Leads to multi-system dysfunction.
•	Effective treatment improves the QoL.
NB Free (ionic) Ca2+ is dependent on serum albumin and arterial pH.

Free (ionic) Ca 2+ (mmol /L ) ≈ measured Ca 2+ (mmol /L )

+ [(40 − albumin) (g /L ) × 0.02]

Aetiology
• Osteolysis—local increased bone resorption induced by lytic bone
metastases. Attributed to the activation of osteoclasts via tumour
cell cytokine production (particularly ILs and TNF). Likely to be the
dominant mechanism in certain malignancies, e.g. lymphoma, NSCLC.
Serum phosphate (PO43–) is usually normal.
• Humoral mediators—systemic release of factors activating osteoclasts,
even in the absence of bony metastases, e.g. PTHrP seen particularly in
SCC of the lung. Often associated with d PO43– due to the inhibition of
PO43– reabsorption.
• Dehydration—exacerbates hypercalcaemia. Ca2+ is a potent diuretic,
causing salt and water loss. As diuresis continues, Ca2+ levels increase,
causing further volume depletion, etc.
• Tumour-specific mechanisms (e.g. myeloma)—secretion of an
osteoclast-activating factor ± deposition of Bence–Jones proteins
l renal impairment l d Ca2+ excretion, e.g. some lymphomas
(usually T-cell) produce active metabolites of vitamin D l i intestinal
absorption of Ca2+.
Often, >1 mechanism contributes, e.g. in breast cancer, both osteolytic and
humoral mechanisms may be important.

Presentation
• Acute or insidious, or an incidental finding.
• Neurological—malaise, fatigue, drowsiness, weakness, depression,
cognitive dysfunction, seizures, coma.
• GI—nausea, vomiting, anorexia, abdominal pain, constipation, including
paralytic ileus, pancreatitis, peptic ulceration.
• Renal—polydipsia, polyuria, dehydration, signs of uraemia, renal colic
(2° to renal calculi).
• Cardiac—arrhythmias, i or d BP, or postural hypotension.

Malignant hypercalcaemia

Investigations
• U & Es, corrected serum Ca2+, PO43–, magnesium (Mg2+), LFTs, amylase.
• FBC—a normal Hb will fall, once the patient is rehydrated.
•	Plasma PTH—this is appropriately undetectable in malignant
hypercalcaemia. Remember non-malignant causes of hypercalcaemia are
common and may coexist with a diagnosis of cancer, e.g. ° or tertiary
hyperparathyroidism, hyperthyroidism.
•	ECG—may be abnormal, including i PR interval, d QT, wide QRS.

Management
• Intervention likely to improve symptoms in all patients, other than those
entering the last few hours of life.
• Rehydration is the priority—to produce volume expansion, restore
glomerular function and increase urinary Ca2+ excretion. Fluid deficit
may be many litres. Aim for 3–6L/24h if the cardiac function and urine
output permit. Use 0.9% saline, and reassess the fluid status regularly.
• Monitor U & Es—renal impairment should improve with fluid
resuscitation. Potassium (K+) and Mg2+ may fall with rehydration and
require IV replacement (K+ 20–40mmol/L and Mg2+ up to 2mmol/L of
normal saline). Check Ca2+ and albumin daily.
• Bisphosphonates—consider if Ca2+ remains ≥3.0mmol/L, despite
rehydration. Cause inhibition of osteoclast activity l d Ca2+. Typical
schedule—pamidronate 60–90mg, infused in 1L of normal saline
over 2–24h, provided renal function adequate following 24h of
rehydration. Then, continue fluids. Onset of action from 48h, and
usually normocalcaemic within 3–7 days; hence, fluid resuscitation is the
critical step in acute management. Cannot repeat the dose for 7 days.
The optimal interval is ≥3wk (avoid repeating within a week). Side
effects—transient fever, hypocalcaemia. Zoledronic acid (4mg IV over
15min) is superseding pamidronate disodium as the biphosphonate of
choice in malignant hypercalcaemia, due to its shorter infusion time and
greater potency.
• Loop diuretics—e.g. furosemide PO/IV, d Ca2+ (d reabsorption in the
loop of Henle), maintains diuresis once patient rehydrated.
• Steroids—little role. May be helpful in haematological malignancies such
as myeloma (e.g. prednisolone 30–60mg od).
• Avoid immobility—lack of weight-bearing induces increased osteoclastic
activity, whilst reducing bone formation.
• Dietary Ca2+ restriction—not appropriate; gut Ca2+ absorption usually
decreases appropriately. Rare exception—some patients with
lymphoma associated with i vitamin D metabolites.
• Salmon calcitonin— l i renal Ca2+ excretion and d bone reabsorption.
IM or s/c administration. Efficacy limited to initial 48h of treatment
(tachyphylaxis). Very uncommonly used.
• Treat the underlying malignancy—if appropriate. Hypercalcaemia is
usually associated with advanced disease. Palliative systemic therapy or
radiotherapy for symptomatic bony lesions may improve the QoL.

733

734

Chapter 36

Biochemical crises

Hyponatraemia
Aetiology
With low plasma osmolality
With normal or increased plasma volume
•	Excess ADH:
• ectopic tumour production of ADH—most commonly associated with
SCLC. Also described in many other cancers, including carcinoid
tumours, lymphomas, leukaemias, and pancreatic cancer
• SIADH—reducing excretion of ingested H O ± re-setting of the
2
osmostat (maintaining serum Na+ at a stable lower level). Multiple
causes, including major surgery, pulmonary disease (e.g. concurrent
pneumonia), and raised ICP. Apparent idiopathic SIADH is often
associated with occult malignancy, particularly SCLC
• stimulation of ADH secretion—can be caused by drugs used in
the treatment of cancer, e.g. ifosfamide, vincristine, high-dose IV
cyclophosphamide, opioids.
• Metabolic causes, including glucocorticoid insufficiency—e.g. following the
rapid withdrawal of long-term exogenous steroid (may be accompanied
by i K+ ± metabolic acidosis) or hypothyroidism.
• Excess IV fluid replacement—with hypotonic fluids or ° polydipsia.
• Organ failure—including renal failure, congestive cardiac failure, hepatic
cirrhosis with ascites.
With reduced plasma volume
• i renal Na+ loss—e.g. nephropathy following cisplatin chemotherapy,
Addison’s (mineralocorticoid deficiency), renal tubular acidosis.
• i non-renal Na+ loss—e.g. diarrhoea and vomiting, repeated ascitic
drainage.
With normal or high plasma osmolality (pseudohyponatraemia)
For example, 2° to hyperglycaemia, very elevated serum paraproteins,
or retention of hypertonic mannitol used in pre-hydration regimes for
chemotherapy—this produces high plasma osmolality, drawing intracellular water out into the circulating volume, and hence producing apparent hyponatraemia. There is no hypo-osmolality, therefore no osmotic
movement of water into the brain and hence no risk of cerebral oedema.
Treatment directed at correcting the serum Na+ is therefore not indicated.

Presentation
Often asymptomatic. Presence of symptoms dependent on:
• the degree of hyponatraemia (i symptoms if Na+ <125mmol/L)
• the rapidity of onset
• the age and sex of the patient—pre-menopausal women most at risk.
If unwell, symptoms tend to be primarily neurological:
• nausea, malaise, and weakness
• confusion, headache, and drowsiness
• seizures, coma, and respiratory arrest.

Hyponatraemia

Examination and investigations
• Assess the hydration status. May appear dehydrated (d skin turgor,
postural hypotension, tachycardia) or hypervolaemic (oedematous,
ascites, etc.), depending on the aetiology.
•	Plasma and urinary Na+.
•	Plasma and urinary osmolality.
• LFTs, glucose, amylase, TFTs.
• Cortisol ± short tetracosactide test, if adrenal failure suspected.
• SIADH—low serum Na+ and osmolality with inappropriately normal/
high urinary Na+ and osmolality in a euvolaemic patient with normal
adrenal, renal, and thyroid function.

Management
With normal or increased plasma volume
• Fluid restriction—to 70.5–1L/day (i.e. to below the level of urine output)
is often sufficient, particularly in asymptomatic patients with serum Na+
>125mmol/L.
• Optimize the remaining electrolytes.
• Inhibition of the action of ADH on the renal tubule—e.g. with
demeclocycline (e.g. 300mg PO tds) to increase water excretion. Only
consider in occasional patients with persistent significant hyponatraemia
who cannot tolerate water restriction. The renal function needs to be
monitored.
• Infusion of hypertonic (3%) saline—only to be considered if
hyponatraemia is life-threatening, and then only under senior or
specialist supervision. Overly rapid correction must be avoided,
particularly in chronic hyponatraemia. Not appropriate in most
malignant causes of hyponatraemia, as Na+ handling is intact in SIADH.
Administered Na+ will simply be excreted, unless the osmolality of the
administered fluid exceeds the urine osmolality.
With reduced plasma volume
• IV infusion of normal (0.9%) saline, with close monitoring of the plasma
volume.

Further reading
Verbalis JG, Goldsmith SR, Greenberg A, Schrier RW, Sterns RH (2007). Hyponatraemia treatment
guidelines 2007: expert panel recommendations. Am J Med 120 (11 Suppl 1), S1–21.

735

736

Chapter 36

Biochemical crises

Hyperkalaemia
Aetiology
• Renal failure—probably the most frequent cause.
• Tumour lysis syndrome—usually following the initiation of therapy
for large-volume treatment-sensitive disease (see E Tumour lysis
syndrome, p. 740) or occasionally due to spontaneous tumour cell
necrosis.
• Concurrent septicaemia.
• Adrenal insufficiency—usually 2° to glucocorticoid withdrawal or, rarely,
adrenal destruction by a tumour.
• Acute graft-versus-host disease—following allogeneic bone marrow
transplantation.
• Drugs—e.g. diuretics such as spironolactone.

Presentation
• Often asymptomatic.
• Occasionally muscle cramps/weakness.
• Cardiac dysrhythmias and arrest.
• Signs and symptoms of underlying cause.

Management
• 12-lead ECG and continuous cardiac monitoring—effects of i K+ on
cardiac conducting tissue include tented T-waves, broadening of the
QRS complex, flattened P-waves, and heart blocks.
• Establish IV access, and give 10mL of 10% calcium gluconate IV—this
is cardioprotective. Can be repeated every 10min, until the ECG
normalizes (up to 50mL may be required).
• 50mL of 50% glucose with 10 units of soluble insulin, infused over
15–30min (i movement of K+ into cells).
• 5mg of nebulized salbutamol.
• Polystyrene sulfonate resin enema (Calcium Resonium®)—increases gut K+
losses.
• If associated renal failure—consider IV rehydration, need for central
access, and possibly IV sodium bicarbonate to correct acidosis (e.g.
50–100mL of 8.4% bicarbonate IV over 30min via a central line). This
usually requires senior or specialist supervision.
• Haemodialysis—occasionally necessary.

Hyperglycaemia and hypoglycaemia

Hyperglycaemia and hypoglycaemia
• Corticosteroid administration—corticosteroids are used in the treatment
of some malignancies and as part of the routine anti-emetic prescription
in highly and moderately emetogenic chemotherapy regimes. Will
increase insulin requirements in patients with diabetes mellitus and may
precipitate the need for hypoglycaemic medication in those with (often
previously unidentified) impaired glucose tolerance.
• Loss of appetite, nausea, and vomiting—may complicate the management
of blood sugars in the diabetic patient.
• Inappropriate insulin production—from islet cell tumours and pancreatic
APUDomas (amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation). Large
metastatic tumours, particularly in the liver, rarely can produce IGFs
which are released into the circulation, especially in response to
treatment.

737

738

Chapter 36

Biochemical crises

Acute renal failure
Certain causes of acute renal failure (ARF) may be seen more commonly
in the patient with malignant disease. Identification of treatable causes is
the priority. Causes can be divided into the following categories, although
frequently renal impairment is multifactorial:
• pre-renal—hypovolaemia due to, e.g. dehydration due to vomiting or
hypercalcaemia, haemorrhage, concomitant sepsis causing impaired
renal perfusion
• renal—renal parenchymal damage due to cytotoxic agents, e.g.
platinum-based chemotherapy, and other nephrotoxic drugs, e.g.
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory analgesia; tumour lysis syndrome
(calcium phosphate crystals) or myeloma (Bence–Jones proteins)
causing deposition within the tubules; glomerulonephritis 2° to
underlying malignancy
• post-renal—e.g. obstruction 2° to a pelvic tumour, retroperitoneal
fibrosis, or pathological lymphadenopathy; renal vein thrombosis.

Presentation
• Nausea/vomiting, anorexia, lethargy.
• Oliguria/anuria.
• Fluid overload (peripheral/pulmonary oedema, i jugular venous
pressure ( JVP), or volume depletion if pre-renal aetiology is
dominant)—d skin turgor, postural hypotension, dry mucous
membranes.
• Confusion or seizures.
• Symptoms related to specific electrolyte abnormalities observed due to
renal tubular dysfunction, e.g. d Ca2+, d Mg2+, d K+, d Na+ l perioral/
limb dysaesthesiae, tetany/carpopedal spasm, muscle weakness,
arrhythmias, etc. Patients receiving certain chemotherapy drugs, e.g.
cisplatin, ifosfamide, are at particular risk of renal tubular dysfunction
and require close monitoring of renal function and electrolyte levels.

Investigations
• U & Es, LFTs, Ca2+, Mg2+, PO43–, bicarbonate, FBC.
• ABGs—establish the degree of metabolic acidosis.
• CXR—fluid overload, the underlying diagnosis.
• Urinalysis—haematuria, proteinuria, crystals, casts, pus cells,
Bence–Jones protein.
•	ECG—signs of i K+ (see E Hyperkalaemia, p. 736).
• Investigations for underlying causes—may include septic screen,
vasculitic screen, renal USS Doppler imaging to assess blood flow, IVU,
and renal biopsy. CT abdo/pelvis may identify filling defects consistent
with an IVC thrombus and establish the extent of malignant disease.

Acute renal failure

Management
Appropriate management may include:
• resuscitation—correction of life-threatening electrolyte derangement
(see other sections in this chapter) and establishment of euvolaemia, if
possible
• monitoring—urine output (usually requiring catheterization). Cardiac
monitor until electrolytes within the normal range. Consider CVP
monitoring
• treat the underlying causes, if possible—this should include treatment of
suspected infection and review of all potentially nephrotoxic drugs:
• pre-renal—aggressive fluid replacement to optimize renal perfusion
and minimize ischaemic injury. Requires frequent assessment for
volume overload and prompt involvement of the renal team, if
oliguria persists despite euvolaemia
• post-renal—bladder catheterization (per urethra or suprapubic)
to relieve the obstruction of the lower urinary tract. Retrograde
ureteric stenting or percutaneous nephrostomy placement for
drainage of the upper urinary tract. Diuresis may follow the relief of
obstruction
• dialysis/haemofiltration—indicated in refractory hyperkalaemia, fluid
overload, or symptomatic uraemia (e.g. encephalopathy). Early
involvement of the renal team.
Management of these patients is likely to require discussion with senior
colleagues. Information regarding ° cancer diagnosis and stage, realistic
assessment of future treatment options, anticipated prognosis, and quality
of life are all likely to have a bearing on decisions made. If treatment options
for the underlying malignancy are limited, aggressive intervention for their
renal failure is likely to be inappropriate.
If uraemia is present at the end of life, then minimally invasive nursing and
symptomatic management should be the focus of care:
• nausea (e.g. haloperidol, cyclizine)
• itching (e.g. topical emollients)
• myoclonic jerks (e.g. low-dose benzodiazepines).

739

740

Chapter 36

Biochemical crises

Tumour lysis syndrome
Aetiology
• A syndrome of metabolic abnormalities and renal impairment, due to
massive lysis of rapidly proliferating tumour cells, resulting in the release
of intracellular contents into the circulation.
• Suspect in patients with large-volume malignant disease developing ARF,
in the presence of hyperuricaemia and/or hyperphosphataemia.
• Most commonly associated with bulky chemosensitive disease, e.g.
poorly differentiated lymphomas, leukaemias with high blast count,
metastatic germ cell tumours.
• Also described in many other cancers, e.g. breast, myeloma.
• Onset usually within hours or days of commencing chemotherapy.
• Can also occur:
• after steroid monotherapy—e.g. in lymphoma or lymphoblastic
leukaemia
• following radiotherapy—for a similar range of cancers
• spontaneously—in tumours with high cell turnover (typically without
hyperphosphataemia).

Metabolic abnormalities
• Hyperuricaemia—release of nucleic acids metabolized to uric acid.
Relative insolubility in water results in crystal deposition in renal tubules
l acute uric acid nephropathy and oliguric ARF.
• Hyperphosphataemia—2° to the release of intracellular phosphate.
Malignant cells have significantly higher concentrations of phosphate
than normal tissues. Can precipitate with calcium, causing the deposition
of calcium phosphate, e.g. in renal tubules (l ARF), the skin (l
gangrene), and the heart (l arrhythmias).
• Hyperkalaemia—exacerbated by deteriorating renal function. Can cause
cardiac arrhythmias.
• Hypocalcaemia/hypomagnesaemia—2° to i PO43– and the precipitation
of calcium phosphate. Symptoms include muscle weakness ± tetany.
Contributes to cardiac dysrhythmias.
• Acute renal failure—due to urate crystal deposition and/or i PO43–. May
be exacerbated by an underlying renal dysfunction due to, e.g. a tumour
mass causing obstructive nephropathy or malignant infiltration of the
renal parenchyma.
• Metabolic acidosis.

Prophylaxis
• PREVENTION IS THE PRIORITY.
• Identify patients at risk:
• patient-specific—baseline metabolic abnormaility, e.g.
hyperuricaemia. Suboptimal renal function, e.g. dehydration,
obstructive nephropathy
• tumour-specific—large-volume disease, rapid cell turnover,
anticipated chemosensitivity
• most commonly affected tumour types—high-grade lymphomas,
leukaemias with high peripheral blast count, some germ cell tumours.

Tumour lysis syndrome

• Optimize renal function before and during treatment—relieve the urinary
tract obstruction, if possible. Correct electrolyte abnormalities, e.g.
hypercalcaemia. Ensure adequate fluid replacement. This usually involves
IV hyperhydration to maintain a high urine output (ideally 100mL/h).
The osmotic diuretic mannitol is sometimes used in pre-treatment
hydration regimes. Loop diuretics (e.g. furosemide) can also help
maintain appropriate diuresis during therapy.
• If low risk (absence of pre-treatment hyperuricaemia)—allopurinol, a
xanthine analogue l competitive inhibition of xanthine oxidase l
reduces the metabolism of xanthine and hypoxanthine to uric acid, e.g.
300mg PO od. Pre-treatment for 48h prior to chemotherapy results in a
marked decrease in the incidence of post-treatment hyperuricaemia.
• If high risk (pre-treatment hyperuricaemia)—rasburicase; the
administration of a recombinant urate oxidase causes i degradation
of uric acid to more water-soluble catabolites, e.g. 200 micrograms/
kg od—the duration of treatment dependent on the serum uric
acid level, usually 1–7 days. Contrainidcated in glucose-6-phosphate
dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency.
• Leucophoresis—if peripheral blast count high.
• Urinary alkalinization—no good evidence.
The Cairo–Bishop definition of tumour lysis syndrome is ≥2 abnormal
serum biochemistry results (see Table 36.1) occurring from 3 days prior
to treatment until 7 days after commencing treatment.

Symptoms
•	Reflect the underlying metabolic derangement.
•	GI—anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea.
• Neurological—lethargy, paraesthesiae, confusion, seizures,
hallucinations, coma.
• Musculosleletal—muscle cramps or tetany.
•	Renal—flank pain, haematuria, oliguria/anuria, oedema.
• Cardiac—heart failure, syncope, arrhythmias, sudden death.
Table 36.1 Cairo–Bishop definition of laboratory tumour lysis syndrome
Metabolite

Value

Compared to baseline

Uric acid

≥476 micromoles/L

25% i

K+

≥6mmol/L

25% i

PO43–

≥1.45mmol/L (adults)

25% i

Ca2+

≤1.75mmol/L

25% d

741

742

Chapter 36

Biochemical crises

Management
• Urgent correction of hyperkalaemia (see E Hyperkalaemia, p. 736).
• Monitor fluid balance—urinary catheterization may be helpful.
Careful assessment of the circulating volume and IV rehydration, if
volume-depleted.
• Urinalysis—may demonstrate uric acid crystals but may be normal due
to oliguria from obstructed nephrons.
•	Exclude post-renal causes of renal failure with USS, e.g. ureteric
obstruction. Suspect this, particularly if there is flank pain.
• Monitor electrolytes and urate—at least twice daily until stable. Patients
receiving rasburicase require serum uric acid to be transported on ice
directly for analysis.
• Calcium supplementation not usually necessary, unless there is
neuromuscular irritability.
• Consider alkalinizing the urine—e.g. with acetazolamide or sodium
bicarbonate. This reduces uric acid precipitation by converting uric acid
to the more soluble urate salt. Evidence is controversial, and hospital
policies may vary. Likely to require senior or specialist supervision.
• Assess the need for haemodialysis to remove excess circulating uric
acid—consider referral if metabolic derangement persists, despite
appropriate care, ongoing metabolic acidosis, oliguria, or symptomatic
uraemia, despite rehydration and diuretics. Early dialysis is associated
with a high chance of complete recovery of the renal function.

Further reading
Cairo MS, Bishop M (2004). Tumour lysis syndrome: new therapeutic strategies and classification.
Br J Haematol 127, 3–11.
Coiffer B, Althman A, Pui C-H, Younes A, Cairo MS (2008). Guidelines for the management of
pediatric and adult tumor lysis syndrome: an evidence-based review. J Clin Oncol 26, 2767–78.

Chapter 37

Complications of
long-term central venous
lines and chemotherapy
extravasation
Complications of long-term central venous lines 744
Chemotherapy extravasation 746

743

744

Chapter 37

Long-term central venous lines

Complications of long-term central
venous lines
Cancer patients commonly require IV therapy over a period of many
months. This may be in the form of regular infusions in hospital or as a
continuous portable infusion at home. Vascular access may be difficult in this
group of patients, due to either their ° diagnosis or complications of their
treatment, e.g. lymphoedema, previous radiotherapy, etc.
An alternative to frequent (and often painful) peripheral cannulation is
the insertion of a long-term venous catheter terminating in the proximal
SVC. This is most commonly a tunnelled catheter (e.g. Hickman, Groshong)
passing via the subclavian vein and exiting the skin at the chest wall, with
a Dacron ‘cuff ’ to secure it just inside the exit site. Alternatives include a
totally implantable device, also tunnelled beneath the chest skin, but with an
s/c infusion reservoir accessed by needle puncture (e.g. Port-a-cath) or a
peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) exiting in the antecubital fossa.

Infection of central venous lines
Local
•	Presenting with purulent discharge from the exit site, local pain,
and erythema ± tenderness overlying the s/c tunnel tract.
Beware—immunocompromised patients may demonstrate few signs of
local infection until bone marrow recovery.
• Optimal management is with removal of the line. However, antibiotic
therapy without removal of the line is a reasonable approach, if the line
is still needed for therapy and provided the patient is monitored for any
signs of systemic infection.
• Flucloxacillin 500mg qds PO for at least a week (unless penicillin-allergic),
pending results from swabs/cultures, is an appropriate starting regime in
a well patient, although local guidelines should be consulted.
Systemic
•	Presenting with signs and symptoms of systemic sepsis, often including
pyrexia, rigors, and hypotension. Signs of local catheter infection may
also be present. Rarely, there may be distant complications such as
metastatic abscesses or endocarditis.
• Confirmation of the diagnosis is by isolation of the same microorganism
from blood cultures taken from the catheter and from peripheral
samples, without the identification of an alternative source.
•	Resuscitation and empiric antibiotic treatment must commence
immediately. Again, local protocols should be consulted. However,
an example of an appropriate regime, pending sensitivities, would be
vancomycin, in combination with an aminoglycoside, e.g. gentamicin,
with dosing dependent on the renal function and serum levels.
• Line removal is optimal—the tip should be sent for culture. However,
in an uncomplicated bacteraemia with a line still functioning, antibiotic
therapy alone may be reasonable. Antibiotics should be administered
down the line, and the patient should be monitored closely. Seek advice
from microbiology, once sensitivities are known regarding changing
therapy and the ideal duration of treatment.

Complications of long-term central venous lines

• Line removal becomes imperative in certain situations, including
failure to improve within 48h, suspicion of infection with fungi or
Gram-negative bacilli, especially Pseudomonas aeruginosa, septic
thrombophlebitis, metastatic abscesses, and endocarditis.

Thrombosis of central venous lines
Thrombus related to long-term venous catheterization of patients with cancer is relatively common, e.g. studies suggest a 3–30% incidence of catheterinduced axillo-subclavian vein thrombosis. This is a population already
prone to thrombosis, in which a thrombogenic focus has been introduced.
Presentation
• Commonly asymptomatic—high index of suspicion needed.
• Local symptoms, e.g. unilateral hand/arm oedema, shoulder pain,
prominent collateral veins visible on the chest wall.
• Distant embolization.
Investigation
•	Usually by duplex ultrasound examination.
• Occasionally with a venogram. However, this requires adequate
peripheral access, the absence of which is often the reason the catheter
was inserted in the first place.
Management
• Line removal—if at all possible, i.e. removal of the thrombogenic
stimulus. Commonly, this is a decision that potentially complicates the
treatment of the underlying cancer and therefore needs to be addressed
on an individual basis.
• Anticoagulation—with low-molecular-weight heparin or warfarin. The
duration of anticoagulant therapy is dependent on the past medical
history, the ongoing presence of the venous catheter, other risk
factors, etc.
• Catheter-directed thrombolysis—there is no current evidence that this is
superior to conservative management. However, it can be considered
in selected patients, particularly those with a good prognosis from their
cancer who have significant acute thrombus-related symptoms.
Prophylaxis
Warfarin, 1mg od, without routine INR monitoring is a commonly used
prophylactic regime in cancer patients with long-term venous catheters.
There are randomized prospective double-blind data to support this as a
method for reducing the incidence of catheter-related thrombus in patients
receiving chemotherapy. It is generally well tolerated, with a low complication rate. However, it should be remembered that, even at this low dose,
warfarin may prolong the INR to potentially dangerous levels—for instance,
with concomitant broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy or with certain chemotherapy regimes, e.g. those containing fluorouracil.
Thrombus of the catheter lumen
The inability to withdraw blood from, or infuse into, a venous catheter is
common. The CXR will help exclude kinking or line migration. Instillation of
a fibrinolytic agent into the line, e.g. urokinase or equivalent, may clear the
intraluminal thrombus.

745

746

Chapter 37

Long-term central venous lines

Chemotherapy extravasation
Many chemotherapy drugs are rather poorly soluble in aqueous media and
are vesicant (literally causing a drying effect—tissue necrosis) to tissues.
Great care must be taken to ensure that drugs are given into a free-flowing
vascular access. This can be done by ensuring that IV fluids (usually normal
saline) run in without restriction, resistance, or local pain. This is particularly
important to check if patients have lines that have been in situ for many
days. If any doubt exists about the patency, the venous catheter should not
be used. A new venous access should be obtained and checked for patency.
Despite these precautions, extravasation of drugs will still occur in rare
cases. Some drugs are less likely to cause tissue problems (e.g. fluorouracil)
than others. Some agents can cause extensive tissue damage that requires
debridement, and even subsequent tissue grafting. Particular care should be
exercised with anthracyclines and vinca alkaloids. Local protocols exist in
cancer centres for the management of extravasation.
For all IV drugs:
• stop the infusion if pain at injection site
• frequently test the patency of the IV device by allowing blood flow back
and free flow of an IV solution, such as saline, if delivering IV bolus drugs
• avoid unattended infusions of known highly vesicant drugs such as
doxorubicin or vincristine
• if extravasation suspected, immediately stop the infusion
• massage the tissue to extrude any obvious fluid from the IV site.
Controversy exists as to the use of ice packs, needle aspiration of tissues,
and/or the use of hyaluronidase to cause the diffusion of substances away
from the injection site. Follow the local policies, if available.
Early involvement of plastic surgery is advisable in all patients who have
significant tissue injury.

Further reading
Acedo Sanchez JD, Battle JF, Feijoo JB (2007). Catheter-related thrombosis: a critical review. Support
Cancer Ther 4, 145–51.
Zingg W, Cartier-Fassler V, Walder B (2008). Central venous catheter-associated infections. Best
Pract Res Clin Anaesthesiol 22, 407–21.

Part 6

The way forward
38 Novel therapeutic strategies
39 Gene therapy and genetic immunotherapy
for cancer
40 Biomarkers and cancer

749
759
773

Chapter 38

Novel therapeutic
strategies
New drug discovery 750
Novel radiotherapeutic approaches 754
Targeted radiotherapy 756
Combined modalities 758

749

750

Chapter 38

Novel therapeutic strategies

New drug discovery
The process of drug discovery is driven by three main factors:
• conventional therapies have reached a plateau of effectiveness and
therapeutic index
• opportunities for novel molecular targets opened up by our new
understanding of the molecular biology of cancer
• the range of new technologies that are available allow for the
rapid-throughput testing of many thousands of potential drug
compounds.

Contemporary approaches to drug discovery
The increasing trend is for a given drug discovery project to be aimed at
a particular molecular target (e.g. a specific oncogene product), the hope
being that pharmacological intervention might deliver a particular desired
biological or phenotypic effect (e.g. inhibition of proliferation, cell cycle progression, motility, invasion, angiogenesis, and metastasis; or the induction
of apoptosis or differentiation), rather than a more general cytotoxic or
cytostatic effect.
This molecular target-orientated approach is now dominant in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Contemporary mechanism-based
drug discovery can be divided into the following phases (see Fig. 38.1).
Target identification and validation
The objective is to identify genes and their associated proteins that are
directly responsible for cancer causation and progression. Having identified
a gene that is either mutated or shows deregulated expression, a variety
of experiments can be carried out to validate the target—i.e. to provide
evidence that it is indeed involved in the disease process in humans and to
increase the level of confidence that pharmacological manipulations of the
target would lead to an anti-tumour effect.
Lead identification
The objective of this phase is to identify a chemical structure that has
some activity against the molecular target. This may be done by screening
chemically diverse compounds in automated high-throughput assays or by a
rational design, based on a known substrate or ligand. Much of this part can
now be done in silica by exploration of public access databases.
Lead optimization
The aim is to improve and refine the desired properties of the lead (e.g.
solubility, potency, and selectivity) and eliminate undesirable features. This
is done by making chemical derivatives or analogues of the lead compound.
In vivo testing
The final stage of testing will involve seeking evidence of regression or
growth arrest/delay in a human tumour xenograft. Depending on the biological effect sought, more complex tests, such as orthotopic or metastatic
models, may be useful. Transgenic mouse models can be valuable, as can
surrogate non-tumour endpoints.

New drug discovery

Assay

Number of
compounds tested

Biochemical screen
(Usually high throughput test with
recombinant reagents)

Typically 200 000–500 000

Iterative
lead
development

Rational design
Structural biology
Combinatorial chemistry

Target cell assays
(To measure cell activity,
selectivity, mode of action)

1000–5000
(Typically 0.5–1% hit rate from
high-throughput screen)

Pharmacokinetic endpoint
(e.g. blood level as a measure
of drug exposure)
50–1000
and/or
Surrogate endpoint
(e.g. normal tissue or animal
tumour response as a measure
or biological effect)
Disease model
(e.g. human tumour xenograft)
Specific organ toxicity

20–250

10–50

Fig. 38.1 Structure of a contemporary mechanism-based drug discovery test cascade.
Usually, activity will be sought in at least a small panel of tumours, including
human xenografts. Ideally, these would be characterized for the molecular
target and pathway involved, together with any other relevant features.
There is an increasing use of so-called transgenic models which are considered to be more representative of the human disease than older xenograft models.
Preclinical drug development
Following the selection of a potential clinical candidate, a number of preclinical development activities must be carried out:
• formulation—the choice of formulation is influenced by solubility,
stability, and dosage requirements
• preclinical pharmacology—more detailed pharmacokinetic/absorption,
distribution, metabolism, excretion (ADME) studies will be carried out
• preclinical toxicology—to define qualitative and quantitative organ
toxicities.

751

752

Chapter 38

Novel therapeutic strategies

Conclusion
Despite major advances in the methodology, the drug discovery and development process is still likely to take around 10y from new target to regulatory approval. With the trend away from empirical screening for anti-cancer
activity to new mechanism-based approaches targeted to specific molecular
abnormalities responsible for cancer, we are now screening a range of exciting new agents emerging for clinical evaluation.
The explosion of molecular knowledge about cancer pathophysiology is
now beginning to yield new agents that strike at specific target pathways
that are expressed within the cancer.

Clinical trials
The ° aim of phase I trials is to establish the safety and tolerability of the
compound being tested and to define an optimum dose and schedule for
further (phase II) studies. Other 2° objectives may be to investigate the
pharmacokinetics of the drug in humans and study the efficacy of the drug
in the patients. Also see Chapter 10.
Phase I
Phase I studies are generally dose escalation trials where the initial dose
level is calculated from the preclinical toxicology studies. This starting dose
aims to be low enough to ensure the safety of the patients, but high enough
to minimize the number of patients treated at ineffective (too low) doses.
The endpoint of the phase I trial is normally toxicity (the MTD and DLT
will be defined in the protocol), except for non-cytotoxic agents when the
endpoint may be the optimum activity of the drug, as defined by its mechanism of action, unless unacceptable toxicity is observed first. For example,
this may be the inhibition of an enzyme or the reduction of the plasma
levels of a hormone.
On completion of the phase I trial, the basic toxicity profile of the agent
in question should be known and an appropriate dose for further trials
identified.
It is still unusual in oncology for phase I studies to be done in normal
volunteers—but, in certain circumstances with drugs in which we can monitor a biological effect, this does now occur.
Phases II and III
Unless the drug has proved to be unacceptably toxic, it will then be subject
to phase II and, if successful, phase III testing. The aim of phase II trials is
to assess the efficacy of the drug. Each phase II trial will be undertaken in
patients with one particular tumour type, and they will all be treated with
the same dose and schedule. Whilst toxicity will continue to be monitored,
the patients’ disease will also be assessed for response.
There is a trend to perform randomized phase II trials in oncology of
intermediate size, between the traditional 30–40 patient phase II and the
much bigger full-scale phase III RCT. Usually, this is done to give an earlier
indication of whether the novel agent actually does hit the target that was
intended or to allow for the introduction of patient selection criteria that
could enrich the trial population, in order to maximize that chance that the
drug will have demonstrable anti-cancer activity.
The aim of phase III trials is to compare the new agent with existing best
treatment for the disease in question.

New drug discovery

753

754

Chapter 38

Novel therapeutic strategies

Novel radiotherapeutic approaches
Radiotherapy is an effective anti-cancer treatment modality. Increasing the
dose delivered to the tumour, whilst sparing the surrounding normal tissue, will commonly improve local tumour control. Novel radiotherapeutic
approaches aim to:
• increase the dose delivered to the tumour
• more accurately localize that radiotherapy onto the cancer
• increase the biological effectiveness of radiation by the use of
radiosensitization agents
• use different forms of radiation that have improved biological effects
• use alternative schedules of radiation to increase the differential
between tumour kill and normal tissue damage.

Targeted radiotherapy
The biological properties of the tumour itself provide the basis for selective irradiation. In principle, this strategy should be capable of eradicating
tumour cells anywhere in the body, but it is currently at an early stage of
development for many sites.
•	Iodine (well-differentiated thyroid carcinomas).
• mAbs to cancer cell surface antigens (B-cell lymphoma).
• The catecholamine precursor analogue MIBG (neuroblastoma).
•	Somatostatin (neuroendocrine tumours).

Improvements in external beam radiotherapy delivery
Improvements in focusing the external radiotherapy beam on the tumour
and avoiding normal tissue should allow a safe increase in the dose of radiotherapy delivered. The principle is similar to stereotactic surgery—in fact,
the so-called γ-knife has been developed with a focus on the use in CNS
tumours to avoid radiotherapy to nearby vital structures.
Conformal therapy
This technique uses 3D image reconstruction and treatment planning to
conform a high dose of radiotherapy to the target volume (often irregularly
shaped) but maintain a low dose to the non-target tissues of the patients.
Early clinical results suggest that normal tissue side effects can be reduced,
and dose escalation is possible, e.g. in the treatment of localized prostate
cancer.
Intensity-modulated radiation therapy
Here, the intensity of the radiotherapy beam is varied across the treatment field to ensure that a uniform dose can be achieved in a regular- or
irregular-shaped target. Essentially, this may add to conformal therapy by
further reducing the dose to sensitive structures.
Intraoperative radiotherapy
Radiotherapy can be delivered to a tumour volume under direct visual localization during an open operation within a designated radiotherapy suite.
A large single dose is delivered at the one procedure. The potential advantage of a targeted boost (given in addition to external beam fractionated
therapy) is balanced by the theoretical limitations of the biological effects
of the single large dose.

Novel radiotherapeutic approaches

Improvements in radiotherapy fractionation
In general, tumours and critical normal tissues (those that limit the dose that
may safely be delivered in a course of radiotherapy) are associated with different fractionation sensitivities.
Studies have demonstrated fast rates of growth in certain tumours, such
that clonogens have potential doubling times of <5 days. This implies that
the time taken to deliver a radical course of conventionally fractionated
radiotherapy should not be extended. Indeed, clinical trials have demonstrated benefits with treatment acceleration where a radical course of treatment may be completed in 2wk (with thrice-daily fractions), rather than the
more usual 4–6wk.

Radiosensitization
If tumour cells can be made more sensitive to the delivered radiotherapy,
improvements in local control can be gained only if radiosensitization is
selective for the tumour.
Hypoxic cell sensitizers
Hypoxic tumour cells are resistant to radiation. The delivery of hypoxic
cell sensitizers should theoretically improve tumour cell kill. Recently, trials,
with, e.g tirapazamine, have demonstrated benefit, but these agents are still
under evaluation.
Synchronous chemotherapy
Chemotherapy delivered with radiotherapy may provide benefit over and
above the addition of more cell kill. This may be due to the inhibition of
DNA repair by the agent or some other mechanism of tumour radiosensitization. More clinical studies are required to define the optimal combination
of chemotherapy and radiotherapy and to ensure that this is a selective
improvement for the tumour and does not just produce additive toxicity.
However, the approach is widely used in some cancers, e.g. rectal cancer
which is locally advanced.

755

756

Chapter 38

Novel therapeutic strategies

Targeted radiotherapy
Targeted radiotherapy means the selective irradiation of tumour cells by
radionuclides that are conjugated to tumour-seeking molecules (targeting
agents).

Targeting agents
Tumour targeting depends on the existence of biological differences
between normal and tumour cells. Several categories of targeting agents
have been used or are under development (see Table 38.1).
• mAbs:
• limited discriminatory ability
• poor penetration of tumour mass
• murine antibodies provoke a host response
• used in cancer of ovary, colon, and brain, with modest response
• best response in B-cell lymphoma.
• MIBG:
• taken up by catecholamine-synthesizing cells of the sympathetic
nervous system
• taken up by neuroblastoma, phaeochromocytoma
• diagnostic and therapeutic.
• Future:
• melanoma
• glioma, SCC—overexpressed cell receptor for EGF.

Radionuclides for therapy
Radionuclides that have the potential for targeted therapy are the α, β, and
Auger particle emitters (see Table 38.2). Although particle-emitting radionuclides usually produce some γ-ray photons as well, the photons make
little contribution to the therapeutic effect.
The physical half-life of a targeting radionuclide must be long enough to
allow radiochemical conjugation and the homing of the conjugate to its target tumour cells. In practice, clinical experience with targeted radiotherapy
is largely confined to β-emitters, particularly 131I and, to a lesser extent, 90Y.
The advantages of 131I are its availability, ease of conjugation, and clinical
familiarity.
α-emitters have high radiobiological effectiveness and short-range emissions but are difficult to obtain and have inconveniently short half-lives.
Experience with α-emitters is, so far, confined to the laboratory, but
encouraging clinical potential has been demonstrated.
Auger electron emitters have been little used for targeted therapy, because
the short range of the Auger electron requires a DNA-targeting agent.

Targeted radiotherapy

Table 38.1 Targeting agents for targeted radiotherapy
Biological differential

Targeting agent

Target tumour

Epitope

Antibodies

Various

Noradrenaline transporter

MIBG

Neuroblastoma

Melanin synthetic pathway

Methylene blue

Melanoma

EGFR overexpression

EGF

Squamous carcinoma,
glioma

Proliferative differential

Iododeoxyuridine (IUdR)

Brain tumours

Nuclear ER

Oestrogen

Breast cancer

Genomic aberration

Oligonucleotide

?

Table 38.2 Radionuclides for targeted radiotherapy
Radionuclide

Half-life

Emitted particles

Particle range

Y

2.7 days

β

5mm

I

8 days

β

0.8mm

Cu

2.5 days

β

0.6mm

Au

3.1 days

β

0.3mm

At

7h

α

0.05mm

Bi

1h

α

0.05mm

I

60 days

Auger electrons

1 micron

I

15h

Auger electrons

1 micron

90

131
67

199
211

212

125
123

757

758

Chapter 38

Novel therapeutic strategies

Combined modalities
Targeted radiotherapy using β-emitters inevitably results in a whole-body
radiation dose, because of limited targeting specificities (cross-targeting to
normal tissues) and because of radionuclide in the general circulation.
These concepts are now being applied in the targeted radiotherapy
of neuroblastoma, using 131I-MIBG in combination with TBI or high-dose
chemotherapy. Combined-modality treatment of B-cell lymphoma, using
radiolabelled antibodies, TBI, or systemic chemotherapy and haemopoietic
rescue, may be an appropriate next step.

Chapter 39

Gene therapy and genetic
immunotherapy for cancer
Introduction 760
Somatic correction of gene defect 762
Genetic pro-drug activation 764
Genetic immunomodulation 766
Gene delivery 770
Further reading 772

759

760

Chapter 39

Gene therapy and genetic immunotherapy

Introduction
• New anti-cancer strategies are needed, as most cancers ultimately
become resistant to conventional treatment modalities.
• Increasing insight into the control and growth of human cells and their
deregulation in cancer has coincided with advances in recombinant
DNA technology.
• Gene therapy for cancer remains firmly within the realms of clinical
trials. There are currently no gene therapy treatments approved for
mainstream clinical use in the UK, and clinical gene therapy trials are
closely regulated by Gene Therapy Advisory Committee (GTAC).
• Occasional encouraging results in preclinical and early-phase studies
have currently failed to translate into treatments with proven efficacy in
phase III clinical trials.
• Worldwide—the first gene therapy product to be approved for use was
Gendicine® (see E Somatic correction of gene defect, p. 762).
•	Early clinical trials are typically undertaken in those with advanced
disease, but it seems likely that any future role for gene therapy will be
greatest in those patients with low-volume or resected disease (i.e. the
adjuvant setting).
• Ongoing development of new techniques means that there is an
overlap between techniques used in gene therapy and in specific
immunotherapy, with novel approaches drawing on both methods
(immunogenetic strategies).
•	This chapter aims to:
• provide a broad overview of the principals of gene therapy
• introduce some of the relevant terminology, and to
• provide the reader with a platform for further reading.
Gene therapy is the transfer and expression of genetic material into a cell,
a tissue, or an organ for a therapeutic purpose.
• Strategies may include the introduction of genes which:
• correct a somatic error
• alter the expression levels of relevant genes
• affect cell differentiation or survival.
• Successful gene therapy will require:
• a method of delivering that gene into the correct cell
• a mechanism of controlling the expression of that gene.

Introduction

Strategies for cancer gene therapy
• Somatic correction of gene defect:
• expression of tumour suppressor gene
• anti-sense oligonucleotide to mutant oncogene.
• Genetic pro-drug activation.
• Genetic immunomodulation:
• non-specific immunotherapy (see Chapter 9)
• specific immunotherapy.
Immunotherapy aims to use immune mechanisms to influence the course
of a disease. This may either be by enhancing the natural host immune
responses or by the use of exogenous biological agents. Immunotherapy
may be:
• non-specific (see Chapter 9), or
• specific—targeting a tumour-related antigen.
•	The concept of a vaccine against cancer first arose when the infectious
aetiology of certain malignancies was identified. Examples include:
•	HPV in cervical cancer
•	HBV in hepatocellular cancer
•	EBV in BL and nasopharyngeal cancer.
• It was then proposed that cancers with no recognizable infectious
aetiology may be targeted with cancer vaccines designed against
tumour-specific antigens.
•	The potential advantage of this strategy is that local delivery of a
gene–vector inoculation may generate a tumour-specific response
that would be amplified and disseminated—targeting tumour cells at
distant sites.
•	The majority of current gene therapy trials involve immunogenetic
techniques.
• Much effort goes into the design and implementation of cancer gene
therapies and immunogenetic strategies. However, our incomplete
understanding of the biological system means we have a limited ability
to predict true targets in vivo.

761

762

Chapter 39

Gene therapy and genetic immunotherapy

Somatic correction of gene defect
Expression of tumour suppressor gene
•	Tumour suppressor genes are genes whose function is lost in
carcinogenesis. Both allele copies must be inactivated, before the
tumour suppressor function is completely lost, with potential initiation
or progression of a cancer.
•	Replacement with normal non-mutated copies of tumour suppressor
genes using viral vectors has resulted in the suppression and/or reversal
of the malignant phenotype in in vivo tumour models.
• An example is the p53 tumour suppressor gene:
• many trials of cancer gene therapy have concentrated on p53
®
• Gendicine is a recombinant adenovirus expressing p53 and is
approved for use in China for the treatment of head and neck
cancers
• phase I and II trials, in which patients with NSCLC with mutations in
p53 have undergone intra-tumoural injection of a retroviral vector
containing wild-type p53, have produced no consistent clinical
benefit.
•	There is some suggestion that combining the successful restoration
of genes (such as wild-type p53) and the sequential administration of
chemotherapy (such as cisplatin) may be synergistic in reducing the
malignant expression in these cell lines.

Correction of mutant oncogenes
•	Proto-oncogenes are genes whose function becomes enhanced
in carcinogenesis. The gene product is typically a protein with an
essential role in controlling cellular proliferation, e.g. growth factors or
transcription factors. A hereditary or acquired mutation in only one
copy of the oncogene disrupts normal regulation of cellular replication.
•	Anti-sense DNA oligonucleotides are short, synthetic nucleotide
sequences that are complementary to specific DNA or RNA sequences
and are specifically engineered to target individual oncogenes. The aim is
to inhibit transcription into mRNA or translation of the mRNA message
into protein. This limits gene expression and hence limits expression of
the gene product.
• An example is the tumour suppressor gene bcl-2:
• an apoptotic inhibitor upregulated in certain types of cancer and
specifically overexpressed through chromosomal translocation in
some NHLs
• identified as playing a role in the development of tumour drug
resistance
• G3139 (oblimersen) is an anti-sense oligonucleotide targeting the
initiation codon region in the bcl-2 messenger ribonucleic acid
(mRNA) and is undergoing clinical trials in many malignancies,
including advanced prostate cancer, melanoma, lymphoma, and
leukaemia.

Somatic correction of gene defect

763

764

Chapter 39

Gene therapy and genetic immunotherapy

Genetic pro-drug activation
•	The fundamental problem with current chemotherapy is its lack of
selectivity and hence its associated toxicity. Targeting of therapy can
potentially be increased by gene transfer techniques. The aim is to
maximize cell kill, whilst minimizing toxicity.
•	This method is variously known as:
• genetic pro-drug activation therapy (GPAT)
• gene-directed enzyme pro-drug therapy (GDEPT)
• virus-directed enzyme pro-drug therapy (VDEPT), if gene transfer is
via a viral vector
• suicide gene therapy.
•	Targeting could be achieved by the sequence of events shown in
Fig. 39.1.
•	The potential advantage of GPAT:
• may permit success, even in the absence of highly efficient gene
transfer, due to the ‘bystander effect’ whereby non-transduced cells
in a mixed population die in the presence of a given pro-drug due to
passive diffusion, active transport, or recruitment of a local immune
response.
• Current limitations of GPAT include:
• limited gene transfer efficiency at the tumour site by the vectors
currently available
• current requirement for direct intra-tumoural gene injection, so
that efficacy may be restricted to solitary tumours, rather than
disseminated disease.
•	Early-phase trials are under way to investigate whether the theory of
GPAT will translate into treatments with any real clinical benefit.
•	An example of a prototype GPAT is the bacterial enzyme
nitroreductase:
• the nitroreductase gene could be introduced into tumours by direct
injection
• the enzyme nitroreductase converts the pro-drug CB1954 (which
can be safely administered IV or intraperitoneally) to a highly toxic
alkylating agent nitrobenzamidine that cross-links DNA
• systemic administration of CB1954 could result in the conversion to
the cytotoxic nitrobenzamidine, only where the activating gene had
been incorporated
• therapeutic efficacy has not yet been demonstrated, although trials
are under way in patients with a range of cancers, including HCC and
liver metastases from colorectal cancer.

Genetic pro-drug activation

A gene encoding a drugactivating enzyme is incorporated
only into tumour cells.
Systemic administration of an
inactive pro-drug.
The drug-activating enzyme
converts the inactive pro-drug
into a toxic metabolite.
Localized generation of a toxic
metabolite.
‘Bystander effect’ causes
additional cell death
TUMOUR DEATH

Fig. 39.1 Potential mechanisms of tumour targeting using a pro-drug system

in combination with gene therapy. Gene therapy techniques could enhance the
specificity of anti-cancer agents by preferentially targeting malignant cells.

765

766

Chapter 39

Gene therapy and genetic immunotherapy

Genetic immunomodulation
Non-specific immunotherapy
•	Aims to increase the immune responsiveness in general, rather than
directing a reaction against a particular antigen.
•	The patient is immunized with materials that elicit an immune reaction
capable of eliminating/delaying tumour growth.
•	Examples of non-specific immunotherapy include the use of BCG and
cytokines, e.g. interferon alfa, IL-2 (see E Active immunotherapy, p. 190).

Specific immunotherapy
Many techniques are being developed, with the aim of generating an
immune response to a specific tumour-associated antigen:
• whole-cell tumour preparations
• peptide vaccinations
• DNA vaccines.
Methods are also being developed to improve the efficiency of antigen
presentation to the immune system-associated antigen:
• dendritic cell (DC) vaccination.
Cancer vaccinations remain the focus of ongoing clinical trials.
•	An ideal target antigen should have the following properties:
• expressed solely in the tumour or only at very low levels elsewhere
in the body
• present in ° and metastatic disease
• available to recognition by the immune system, either by expression
on the cell surface or by being processed by MHC proteins.
Methods of generating tumour-specific immune reactions
Whole tumour cell preparations
• Individual preparation of vaccination for each patient using samples from
their own tumour, usually administered with an adjuvant agent, e.g. BCG.
•	Advantage—avoids the need to identify specific tumour-associated
antigens.
• Disadvantages—high-intensity preparation, so scope for widespread
clinical application may be limited.
•	Examples of the application of whole tumour cell include small-scale
trials in patients with RCC and following the resection of colorectal
tumours—encouraging results, with trends towards longer DFS.
Peptide vaccinations
• If an appropriate antigen can be isolated and identified, then specific
peptides derived from that antigen could be developed into epitopes for
immunotherapy. Subsequent exposure to the antigen should increase
the possibility of tumour recognition by immune surveillance, and hence
rejection.
• So far, clinical trials have examined intradermal or s/c administration,
usually in combination with an immunological adjuvant such as BCG.

Genetic immunomodulation

• Disadvantages—the need to identify specific tumour-associated antigens
and to introduce the synthetic epitope in such a way as to stimulate an
immune response.
•	An example of a tumour-specific peptide antigen under investigation
is mucin-1—a large glycoprotein expressed on the GI mucosa and
overexpressed in several cancers, including pancreatic and colorectal.
Currently, little evidence of clinical efficacy.
DNA vaccines
• Genes known to be overexpressed in malignancy can be targeted. The
aim is to produce a recombinant DNA vaccine, in which a vector is used
to introduce DNA encoding tumour-associated proteins. Presentation
of the antigen protein induces humoral and cell-mediated immune
responses.
• Disadvantage—limited by the paucity of truly tumour-specific antigens.
Most target antigens are tumour-associated, rather than tumour-specific,
and are normal cellular genes that are inappropriately expressed in
malignant cells.
•	Examples of targets for DNA vaccination strategies include:
• p53—a mutated tumour suppressor gene present in >50% of all
human cancers
• CEA—a cell surface glycoprotein overexpressed by the majority of
colorectal cancer cells and also at low levels in the normal colon and
biliary epithelium. The gene encoding CEA has been incorporated
into various vectors for use as a vaccine. Although many phase I and
II trials confirm that the vaccine is well tolerated, there has not yet
been clear evidence of clinical benefit
• MAGE-1—an embryonic gene product associated with breast cancer
and malignant melanoma
• HER2/neu receptor—an EGFR with intracellular TK activity,
overexpressed in several solid tumours, including breast, stomach,
and pancreatic cancers.
Method of optimizing antigen presentation
Dendritic cell vaccination
•	Although appropriate antigen selection is vital, success is dependent
on an optimal presentation of those antigens to the immune system.
The need to ensure an efficient antigen presentation has led to antigen
administration in association with DCs.
• DCs have the following properties which make them appropriate for
manipulation:
• they are potent antigen-processing and antigen-presenting cells,
critical to the development of ° MHC-restricted T-cell immunity
to infectious agents, in autoimmune diseases, and in anti-tumour
immunity
• they express high levels of MHC and co-stimulatory molecules
• they can be expanded in vitro from peripheral blood precursors
and marrow, using cytokines. Cultured DCs are able to take up
exogenous antigen (as tumour protein, peptide, or RNA) or may be
transduced with genes encoding tumour antigen, using physical or
viral methods of gene transfer.

767

768

Chapter 39

Gene therapy and genetic immunotherapy

•	The hope is that co-administration of antigen with DCs will maximize
subsequent T-cell response, and hence the host immune recognition of
the tumour-associated peptide.
• Disadvantage—DCs remain very labour-intensive to generate.
•	Extensive small-scale early-phase trials have been conducted, with the
most promising results in prostate cancer. However, many (high) hurdles
remain, before there is any prospect of DC vaccination joining the
mainstream oncological treatments.

Genetic immunomodulation

769

770

Chapter 39

Gene therapy and genetic immunotherapy

Gene delivery
Successful gene therapy requires a delivery system that is capable of efficient gene transfer, without causing any associated pathological effects.
Current delivery systems are discussed under the headings that follow.

Direct physical delivery of gene therapy
•	Examples of physical means include:
• injection of naked DNA into skeletal muscle by a simple needle and
syringe
• DNA transfer by liposomes
• DNA coated on the surface of gold pellets that are air-propelled into
the epidermis (the ‘gene gun’).
•	Advantages—convenience and safety.
• Disadvantages—low efficiency of gene transfer, and the technique
results in transient gene expression only.

Use of biological vectors for delivery of gene therapy
•	Examples of biological vectors include:
• bacterial vectors
• viral vectors (see Table 39.1).
•	Advantages—it is the most efficient, stable method and permits the
integration of DNA into large numbers of target cells.
• Disadvantages—the safety issues, that it is technically more complex,
and the potential generation of neutralizing immune responses and
systemic toxicities.

Administration of gene therapy
• Is typically by local injection.
• Systemic administration is generally precluded by the high prevalence of
cross-reacting antibodies and the high immunogenicity of the vectors.

Efficiency of transfer of therapeutic DNA varies, and this
will influence the choice of vector
For example:
• for gene replacement, high-efficiency viral vectors are desirable
• for short-term gene expression to prime an immune response or
sensitize cells to radiotherapy, liposomal delivery may be adequate.

Delivery of gene therapy
This may be:
• ex vivo (outside the patient)—transfer of a therapeutic gene into
isolated cancer or non-cancer cells that are then re-implanted into the
patient
• in vivo—delivery of genes to target cancer cells by exploiting
transcriptional differences of specific genes between cancer and normal
cells. This technique is less efficient for gene transfer.

Transient expression

Small DNA sequences
only carried

Requires actively dividing cells

Small DNA sequences only
carried poor transduction
efficiency in human tumours

Insertional mutagenesis

Random integration

Low titre, transient expression

Immunogenicity

Immunogenicity

Disadvantages

Efficient gene transfer

Highly efficient gene
transfer

Carries 8–30kb insert

Stable colinear integration

High viral titres

Carries 10kb insert

Adenovirus

Small genome

Advantages

Retrovirus

Table 39.1 Viral vectors for gene therapy

Neural tropism

Small DNA sequences only carried

Not well studied

Lytic virus

Large genome

Immunogenicity

Can infect non-dividing cells

Naturally
replication-incompetent

Immunogenicity

Highly efficient gene transfer

Carries up to 15kb insert

High viral titres

Herpes virus

Can infect non-dividing cells

Can infect non-dividing
target cells

Small genome

Lentivirus

Efficient gene transfer

Carries 4–5kb insert

Small genome

Adeno-associated virus

Gene delivery

771

772

Chapter 39

Gene therapy and genetic immunotherapy

Further reading
Cerullo V, Koski A, Vähä-Koskela M, Hemminki A (2012). Chapter eight—Oncolytic adenoviruses
for cancer immunotherapy: data from mice, hamsters, and humans. Adv Cancer Res 115, 265–318.
Kaliberov SA, Buchsbaum DJ (2012). Chapter seven—Cancer treatment with gene therapy and
radiation therapy. Adv Cancer Res 115, 221–63.
Mantia-Smaldone GM and Chu CS (2013). A review of dendritic cell therapy for cancer: progress
and challenges. BioDrugs 27, 453–68.
Tagawa M, Tada Y, Shimada H, Hiroshima K (2013). Gene therapy for malignant mesothelioma: current prospects and challenges. Cancer Gene Ther 20, 150–6.
Tobias A, Ahmed A, Moon KS, Lesniak MS (2013). The art of gene therapy for glioma: a review of
the challenging road to the bedside. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 84, 213–22.

Chapter 40

Biomarkers and cancer
Biomarkers and cancer 774
Clinical applications of biomarkers 778
Further reading 781

773

774

Chapter 40

Biomarkers and cancer

Biomarkers and cancer
Definition
A measurement which provides insight into the biological process underlying the cancer and/or gives clinically useful information about an individual
malignancy, additional to established clinical parameters such as performance status. This can be:
• diagnostic—marker specific for the cancer
• prognostic—marker correlates with the extent of disease/natural
history
• predictive—marker correlates with responsiveness/resistance to
therapy
• a response assessment—marker correlates with the treatment efficacy
or the development of refractory disease.

Established biomarkers
A number of biomarkers are well established in oncological practice:
• serum AFP, HCG, and LDH are validated prognostic markers for germ
cell malignancies of the testis and are key to monitoring patients during
treatment and on surveillance
• tumour ER, PR, and human EGFR-2 (HER2), assessed by IHC or FISH,
provide valuable predictors, both of the response to targeted therapy
and the prognosis in breast cancers.
Other commonly used tumour markers include:
• serum CA125 in ovarian cancer
• serum CEA in colorectal cancer (but also elevated in, e.g. NSCLC and
breast cancer)
• serum TG in follicular and papillary thyroid cancer
• serum calcitonin in medullary carcinoma of the thyroid
• urinary 5-HIAA in carcinoid tumours.

Development of novel biomarkers
Progress in the understanding of the molecular biology of cancer has been
paralleled by the development of laboratory technology in the fields of
genomics and proteomics. Tissue micro-array technology has been refined,
so that currently it is possible to quantify the expression of several thousands of genes in a single experiment, with only a few days’ delay between
biopsy and automated analysis.
Similarly, with advances in proteomics, it is estimated that plasma contains
>10 000 different proteins, with concentrations varying by ten orders of
magnitude. In order to study cancer-specific proteins, techniques have been
developed to remove the abundant proteins (albumin, immunoglobulin,
fibrinogen, etc.), to allow the separation and detection of tumour-related
proteins, with the quantification of not only individual proteins, but also
their phosphorylation status, which can correlate with the activity.
The past decade has also heralded in a new era in the understanding of gene
regulation in cancer. We now appreciate that normal human cells express thousands of non-coding RNAs and that cancer cells misexpress these RNAs. Many
of the non-coding RNAs, epitomized by the microRNA (miRNA), have regulatory functions in normal cells. The aberrant expression of miRNA promotes
tumourigenesis, metastasis, and other features of cancer.

Biomarkers and cancer

The presence of circulating tumour cells (CTCs) in the blood of patients
with advanced cancer was noted >20y ago. However, it is only in the last
few years, again through improved biotechnology, that fast and accurate
assays of these have become available. CTCs are particularly abundant in
advanced prostate cancer and breast cancer. Research is ongoing to define
how best to use CTCs, ­examples being:
• the number of cells predicts the duration of survival in metastatic
disease
• a fall in the CTCs correlates with the response and response duration
after chemotherapy
• a change in the CTCs may be a useful surrogate endpoint for systemic
treatment efficacy, superior to current assessment, e.g. axial imaging.
There is potential value of receptor studies on CTCs to predict
subsequent responsiveness to therapies.
It has also been recognized that tumour DNA can be retrieved from
patients’ peripheral blood. This lends itself to the same questions as the
CTCs but may be somewhat easier to apply, since the technology of DNA
isolation and identification has become automated and routine in many hospital laboratories.

Signal transduction
Understanding of the cell signalling pathways that control cellular behaviour has provided many potential biomarkers for malignant disease. Most of
these pathways can be triggered by extracellular factors binding to receptors, either on the cell surface or within the cell. The processes they control
include:
• the activation of genes
• changes in metabolism
• cellular proliferation
• cellular death
• cellular migration.
Gene activation can lead to a cascade of effects through the production of:
• proteins with enzyme activity
• transcription factors which activate one or more genes downstream in
the pathway (see Fig. 40.1).
With the advent of targeted therapies directed at growth factor receptors or their TKs, it is becoming increasingly important to identify which
components of the signal transduction pathways predominate in individual
cancers. For example, most GISTs are driven by mutation in c-kit which
leads to the constitutive activation of the KIT TK, the target for the TKI
imatinib. Clearly, when the pathway is disrupted by alteration downstream
from the growth factor receptor, agents targeted against the receptor or its
specific TK are unlikely to have significant anti-tumour effects. For example, tumours driven by K-ras mutations do not respond to antibody therapy
directed against membrane-bound growth factor receptors or to the corresponding receptor TKIs.

775

776

Chapter 40

Biomarkers and cancer

Angiogenesis
Tumour growth and spread require the development of new blood vessels. Commonly, malignant tumours have areas of highly vascularized tissue, facilitating proliferation and growth, but other areas of low perfusion
and hypoxia arise where tumour growth has outstripped angiogenesis, and
these may contain tumour stem cells, relatively protected from chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
A variety of anti-cancer strategies target angiogenesis:
• antibody against VEGF—bevacizumab
• VEGF receptor TKIs have similar effects
• other agents, e.g. trastuzumab, lead to an increase in thrombospondin 1,
a natural inhibitor of angiogenesis.
Currently, there are no validated biomarkers for these strategies, despite
intensive research in this area over the last 10y.

Pharmacological biomarkers
Deactivating enzymes
Measurement of drug-specific metabolic enzyme activities can be predictive
of toxicity or efficacy for a number of anti-cancer drugs or:
• thiopurine methyltransferase—low levels predict toxicity, unless 6-MP
doses are reduced in the treatment of ALL
• dihydropyridine dehydrogenase—deficiency leads to increased toxicity
with fluorouracil and capecitabine
• uridine diphosphate glucuronyltransferase—low levels predict toxicity
from irinotecan.
DNA repair enzymes
DNA repair phenotype can influence:
• normal tissue susceptibility to malignant transformation, e.g. after
environmental exposure to radiation or chemical carcinogens
• tumour genetic instability, leading to the loss of normal cellular controls
and acquired resistance to therapies
• toxicity with standard doses of cytotoxics or radiotherapy, due to failure
of normal DNA repair in healthy tissues
• tumour response/resistance to treatment with radiotherapy/
chemotherapy.
Pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics
Increasingly, attempts are being made to move away from the use of
anti-cancer drugs at their MTD, to the optimization of dosage of established and new agents, according to their pharmacological and biological
activity in individuals:
• therapeutic drug monitoring—knowledge and measurement of a target
plasma level of the drug or its metabolites to allow dose adjustment
• direct measurement of biomarker drug efficacy, e.g. protein
phosphorylation
• use of surrogate endpoints, i.e. biological measures which, although
independent of tumour cell kill, correlate with this.

Biomarkers and cancer

GPCR

RTK
PLC

G-Protein

PI3K

Akkα

PKC
NF-κB

PKA

IκB
STAT3,5

JAKs

Ras

FAK
Src

Raf

Adenylate
cyclase
MEKK

APC

MAPK

MKK

β-catenin
TCF

ERK JNKs β-catenin:TCF
Fos Jun

CREB

CycID p16 GIi

Rb CDK4

Caspase 9
Gene regulation

Apoptosis

ARF
mdm2

BcI-2

Bad
Abnormality
Bim
FasR sensor

Mt

Bax

p53

Cell
proliferation

E2F

SMO

Cytochrome C

FADD

GSK-3β

MEK

Myc: Mad:
Max Max

BcI-xL

Caspase 8

Dishevelled

Patched

Cytokine receptor

Akt

Integrins
Frizzled

RTK cdc42
Grb2/SOS Fyn/Shc

p15

CycIE p27
CDK2
p21
Smads

Fig. 40.1 Cell signalling pathways.

Imaging biomarkers
Traditionally, the assessment of treatment efficacy in oncology requires
comparison of imaging-based measurements to define complete response/
partial response/stable disease/progressive disease:
• WHO, the original standard, using the product of bidimensional
measurements of tumour masses on CT or MRI
•	Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)
• 3D volumetric tumour assessments are currently being investigated.
Many targeted therapies exert anti-cancer effects which are cytostatic,
rather than cytotoxic, so that early responses are difficult to appreciate,
according to, e.g. RECIST criteria. Instead of conventional CT/MRI to
assess novel therapies, specific imaging biomarkers are being developed and
validated to attempt to define the biological activity of the various classes
of targeted therapy:
• dynamic contrast-enhanced CT and MRI—the contrast agent allows the
assessment of anti-angiogenic effects on tumour perfusion
•	PET can quantitatively measure tumour perfusion (15O-labelled water)
• measure tumour cell proliferation—18F-fluorothymidine
•	PET imaging of molecular pathway receptors.

777

778

Chapter 40

Biomarkers and cancer

Clinical applications of biomarkers
With the widespread use of adjuvant therapy for modest benefit in, e.g.
breast and colorectal cancers, and the advent of costly targeted therapies
which are active in only a minority of the cancer types for which they are
licensed, there is increasing pressure to pursue the establishment of clinically relevant biomarkers for each cancer site, in order to rationalize individual treatments, according to:
• the predicted natural history of the cancer
• the predominant drivers to malignant phenotype
• the predicted responsiveness to available therapies.

Breast cancer
The tumour stage and the ER, PR, and HER2 status remain key to the selection of adjuvant therapy, but there remains much uncertainty with regard to
which individuals gain most/least from adjuvant chemotherapy, in particular
amongst women with node-negative breast cancer. Recently, novel technologies have produced gene and protein signatures which have prognostic
value in breast cancer, and trials are under way to prospectively evaluate its
ability to improve the selection of adjuvant therapy in such patients.
Other biomarkers under investigation include:
• the tumour suppressor PTEN is activated by binding of trastuzumab
to ErbB2, and conversely a mutation of PTEN confers resistance to
trastuzumab
• the expression of the truncated growth factor receptor p95HER2 also
leads to trastuzumab resistance
• the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K)/Akt/mTOR pathway
represents an important therapeutic target, e.g. in relapsed ER-positive
cancers, and genetic markers predicting the responsiveness to such
treatment are sought
• the importance of stromal gene expression in prognosis.

Lung cancer
Initial experience with targeted therapies for unselected patients with
advanced NSCLC resulted in modest and inconsistent improvements in
treatment outcome. The treatment of NSCLC has been refined, now allocated according to the pathology and specific molecular features. Targeting
mutations of the EGFR with TKIs has been particularly successful, with
response rates in selected patients with adenocarcinomas harbouring
EGFR mutations that are significantly higher than those for conventional
chemotherapy. Similar results have been reported in anaplastic lymphoma
kinase-driven lung cancers treated with crizotinib.
New targets for therapy under evaluation include:
•	HER2 insertions
• BRAF mutations
•	PI3K mutations
• FGFR amplification
• MET overexpression
• DNA repair defects.

Clinical applications of biomarkers

Colorectal cancer
Currently, only CEA is in common use as a biomarker. However, understanding of the three pathways to colorectal cancer—chromosomal instability, microsatellite instability, and gene silencing by hypermethylation (e.g.
of DNA mismatch repair enzymes)—is now complemented by research,
including:
• screening for early disease/local recurrence by detection of molecular
markers of pre-malignant and malignant lesions in faeces
• microsatellite instability conveys a better prognosis but paradoxically is a
predictor of a lack of benefit of fluorouracil adjuvant therapy
• k-RAS mutations (45%) predict a poor prognosis, but also failure of
therapy targeted against EGFR, e.g. cetuximab; no apparent correlation
with EGFR expression, but other potential biomarkers include BRAF
and PTEN
• proteomic search for a serum marker to replace CEA for follow-up/
early diagnosis of relapse
• genomic markers to predict patients who do not require adjuvant
therapy or close follow-up.

Renal cell cancer
Currently, there are no established biomarkers for renal cell cancer. Given
the importance of angiogenesis in this disease, the current focus of biomarker research in this tumour type includes:
• serum VEGF—a high level conveys a poor prognosis, irrespective of
the treatment; during sunitinib therapy, serum VEGF elevates (produced
by non-malignant stroma) but falls on withdrawal (the drug is normally
taken daily for 4wk, then 2wk rest); large fluctuations predict a good
response
• soluble VEGF receptor levels show an inverse pattern of fluctuation
during treatment
• hypertension (frequent side effect of anti-angiogenesis therapy)
correlates with a positive clinical outcome with, e.g. sunitinib
• cellular hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs)
• basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF)
• VHL mutation and the VHL protein—no proven correlation with
therapeutic outcome.

Central nervous system tumours
•	Epigenetic silencing of the DNA repair gene MGMT by promoter
methylation is associated with temozolomide chemosensitivity in
glioblastoma.
• 1p/19q deletions predict a better survival and chemosensitivity in
oligodendroglioma.

Controversies and limitations
Whilst these developments provide great hope for the individualization of
cancer therapies, they also present significant problems:
• realistically, must have short turnaround time to allow the integration of
the biomarker into the therapeutic decision-making process of the MDT

779

780

Chapter 40

Biomarkers and cancer

• integration into conventional drug development and clinical trial design
is challenging and inevitably reduces the rates of recruitment to trials
where entry is limited to biomarker-positive patients
• combination therapy trials—how best to deliver conventional
chemotherapy with targeted agents, sequentially or concomitant
• heterogeneity of the tumour and limited availability of biopsy material,
e.g. NSCLC commonly diagnosed on cytology, rather than biopsy
• feasibility of genomic techniques with FNA versus core biopsy material
• heterogeneity between ° and metastasis, either re-biopsy or look at
CTCs, e.g. FISH for genotype
• biotechnology quality control, centralized versus local laboratories
• setting limits for therapy, e.g. what is the smallest probability of survival
benefit to justify adjuvant therapy?
• acceptability of these to patients versus health economists.

Further reading

Further reading
Hanahan D, Weinberg RA (2000). Hallmarks of cancer. Cell 100, 57–70.
O’Connor JP, Jackson A, Asselin MC, Buckley DL, Parker GJ, Jayson GC (2008). Quantitative imaging
biomarkers in the clinical development of targeted therapeutics: current and future perspectives.
Lancet Oncol 9, 766–76.
Søreide K, Nedrebø BS, Knapp JC, Glomsaker TB, Søreide JA, Kørner H (2009). Evolving molecular
classification by genomic and proteomic biomarkers in colorectal cancer: potential implications for
the surgical oncologist. Surg Oncol 18, 31–50.

781

Part 7

Appendices
Appendix 1	NCIC common toxicity criteria (CTC)
grading system (March 1998, revised)
Appendix 2	Nomogram for the determination
of body surface area
Appendix 3	Performance status
Appendix 4	Support agencies’ addresses
and websites

785
853
855
857

Appendix 1

NCIC common toxicity
criteria (CTC) grading
system (March 1998,
revised)
Common toxicity criteria (CTC) 786
Adverse event module 840
Infection module 841
Performance status scales/scores 842
RTOG/EORTC late radiation morbidity scoring scheme 844
Bone marrow transplantation: specific adverse events 848
Bone marrow transplantation: complex/multicomponent
events 851

785

Transient rash,
drug fever <38°C
(<100.4°F)

1

Grade

Urticaria, drug fever
≥38°C (≥100.4°F),
and/or asymptomatic
bronchospasm

2
Symptomatic
bronchospasm, requiring
parenteral medication(s),
with or without urticaria;
allergy-related oedema/
angioedema

3

4

None

Autoimmune reaction

Serological or
other evidence
of autoimmune
reaction, but patient
is asymptomatic (e.g.
vitiligo), all organ
function is normal,
and no treatment is
required

Mild, not requiring
treatment

Also consider Hypothyroidism, Colitis, Haemoglobin, Haemolysis

None

Allergic rhinitis (including
sneezing, nasal stuffiness,
post-nasal drip)
Evidence of autoimmune
reaction involving a
non-essential organ
or function (e.g.
hypothyroidism), requiring
treatment other than
immunosuppressive drugs

Moderate, requiring
treatment

Reversible autoimmune
reaction involving
function of a major
organ or other adverse
event (e.g. transient
colitis or anaemia),
requiring short-term
immunosuppressive
treatment

–

Autoimmune reaction
causing major grade
4 organ dysfunction;
progressive and irreversible
reaction; long-term
administration of high-dose
immunosuppressive
therapy required

–

Note: isolated urticaria, in the absence of other manifestations of an allergic or hypersensitivity reaction, is graded in the DERMATOLOGY/SKIN category

None

0

Appendix 1

Allergic reaction/
hypersensitivity (including
drug fever)

ALLERGY/IMMUNOLOGY

Adverse event

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

786

NCIC common toxicity criteria

None

Serum sickness

–

1
–

2

Grade
Present

3
–

4

None

Allergy/
immunology—Other
(specify, __________)

Mild

Mild, not requiring
treatment
Moderate

Symptomatic, requiring
medication

Normal

Middle ear/hearing

Auditory/hearing—Other Normal
(specify, __________)

Normal

Inner ear/hearing

Severe

Requiring steroids

Life-threatening or disabling

Ischaemic changes or
requiring amputation

Mild

Serous otitis without
subjective decrease in
hearing

Hearing loss on
audiometry only

Tinnitus or hearing loss,
correctable with hearing
aid or treatment

Moderate

Severe

Serous otitis or infection
Otitis with discharge,
requiring medical intervention; mastoiditis, or
subjective decrease in
conductive hearing loss
hearing; rupture of tympanic
membrane with discharge

Tinnitus or hearing loss,
not requiring hearing aid or
treatment

(continued)

Life-threatening or disabling

Necrosis of the canal soft
tissue or bone

Severe unilateral or
bilateral hearing loss
(deafness), not correctable

External otitis with
External otitis with moist
External otitis with
Necrosis of the canal soft
erythema or dry
desquamation
discharge, mastoiditis
tissue or bone
desquamation
Note: changes associated with radiation to the external ear (pinnae) are graded under Radiation dermatitis in the DERMATOLOGY/SKIN category

Normal

External auditory canal

Earache is graded in the PAIN category

Conductive hearing loss is graded as Middle ear/hearing in the AUDITORY/HEARING category

AUDITORY/HEARING

None

Vasculitis

Urticaria is graded in the DERMATOLOGY/SKIN category, if it occurs as an isolated symptom. If it occurs with other manifestations of allergic or
hypersensitivity reaction, grade as Allergic reaction/hypersensitivity above

0

Adverse event

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

787

60–70%
cellularity
average

50%
cellularity
average

Younger adults (19–59y)

Older adults (≥60y)

Mildly hypocellular
or ≤25% reduction
from normal cellularity
for age

1

Grade

Moderately hypocellular or
>25–≤50% reduction from
normal cellularity for age or
>2, but <4,wk to recovery
of normal bone marrow
cellularity

2

Within
normal limits
(WNL)

Normal

CD4 count

Haptoglobin

Decreased

< lower limit of
normal (LLN)—500/
mm3
–

200–<500/mm3

Note: grade bone marrow cellularity only for changes related to the treatment, not the disease

90% cellularity
average

Children (≤18y)

Normal for
age

0

Absent

50–<200/mm3

Severely hypocellular or
>50–≤75% reduction
in cellularity for age or
4–6wk to recovery of
normal bone marrow
cellularity

3

–

<50/mm3

Aplasia or >6wk to
recovery of normal bone
marrow cellularity

4

Appendix 1

Normal ranges

Bone marrow cellularity

BLOOD/BONE MARROW

Adverse event

788

NCIC common toxicity criteria

WNL

For bone marrow
transplantation (BMT)
studies, if specified in the
protocol

For paediatric BMT studies
(using age, race, and sex
normal values), if specified
in the protocol

WNL

Leucocytes (total WCC)

Also consider Haptoglobin, Haemoglobin

None

≥75–<100% LLN

≥50–<75% LLN

≥1000–<2000/mm3

≥2000–<3000/mm3

≥25–50% LLN

≥500–<1000/mm3

≥0.5–<1.0 × 109/L

≥1000–<2000/mm

≥2000–<3000/mm
≥1.0–<2.0 × 109/L

≥1.0–<2.0 × l09/L
3

Requiring transfusion
and/or medical
intervention (e.g.
steroids)

50–<75% decrease from
pre-treatment

4.0–<4.9mmol/L

65–<80g/L

6.5–<8.0g/dL

3

≥2.0–<3.0 × l09/L
3

Evidence of red cell
destruction and ≥2g
decrease in Hb, no
transfusion

≥2.0–<3.0 × 109/L

< LLN–3000/mm

3

< LLN–3.0 × l09/L

Only laboratory
evidence of haemolysis
(e.g. DAT, Coombs’,
schistocytes)

4.9–<6.2mmol/L

< LLN—6.2mmol/L

Haemolysis (e.g. immune
haemolytic anaemia,
drug-related haemolysis,
other)

80–<100g/L

< LLN—100g/L

Grade

25–<50% decrease from
pre-treatment

8.0–<10.0g/dL

2

< LLN—10.0g/dL

10–<25% decrease
from pre-treatment

WNL

Haemoglobin (Hb)

1

For leukaemia studies or
WNL
bone marrow infiltrative/
myelophthisic processes,
if specified in the protocol

0

Adverse event

<25% LLN

<500/mm3

<0.5 × l09/L

<1000/mm3

<1.0 × l09/L

(continued)

Catastrophic consequences
of haemolysis (e.g. renal
failure, hypotension,
bronchospasm, emergency
splenectomy)

≥75% decrease from
pre-treatment

<4.0mmol/L

<65g/L

<6.5g/dL

4

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

789

WNL

WNL

For BMT studies, if
specified in the protocol

≥20 000–<50 000/mm3

≥50 000–<75 000/
mm3

≥10 000–<20 000/mm3

≥10.0–<20.0 × l09/L

≥10 000–<50 000/mm

≥20.0–<50.0 × l09/L

≥50 000–<75 000/mm

3

≥10.0–<50.0 × l09/L
3

50–<75% decrease from
baseline

≥50.0–<75.0 × l09/L

≥50.0–<75.0 × l09/L

3

< LLN–75 000/mm

< LLN–75.0 × l09/L

≥100–<500/mm

25–<50% decrease from
baseline

3

≥500–<1000/mm

Platelets

10–<25% decrease
from baseline

≥1000–<1500/mm

WNL

For leukaemia studies or
bone marrow infiltrative/
myelophthisic process, if
specified in the protocol

3

≥0.1–<0.5 × l09/L

≥1.0–<1.5 × l09/L

WNL

For BMT studies, if
specified in the protocol

≥500–<1000/mm3

≥0.5–<1.0 × l09/L

≥25–<50% LLN

<500/mm3

<0.5 × l09/L

3

≥0.5–<1.0 × l09/L

≥1000–<1500/mm3

≥1500–<2000/mm3

3

≥1.0–<1.5 × l09/L

≥1.5–<2.0 × l09/L

Neutrophils/granulocytes WNL
(absolute neutrophil
count (ANC)/absolute
granulocyte count (AGC))

≥500–<1000/mm3

< LLN–1000/mm3
≥50–<75% LLN

≥0.5–<1.0 × l09/L

Grade

< LLN–1.0 × l09/L

2

≥75–<100% LLN

WNL

Lymphopenia

1

<10 000/mm3

<10.0 × l09/L

<10 000/mm3

<10.0 × l09/L

≥75% decrease from
baseline

<100/mm3

<0.1 × l09/L

<500/mm3

<0.5 × l09/L

<25% LLN

–

4

Appendix 1

For paediatric BMT studies
(using age, race, and sex
normal values), if specified
in the protocol

0

Adverse event

790

NCIC common toxicity criteria

None

None

Transfusion: platelets

For BMT studies, if
specified in the protocol

Transfusion: packed red
blood cells (pRBCs)

None

WNL

For leukaemia studies or
bone marrow infiltrative/
myelophthisic process, if
specified in the protocol

Also consider Platelets

0

Adverse event

–

One platelet
transfusion in 24h

–

10–<25% decrease
from baseline

1

Grade

–

Two platelet transfusions
in 24h

–

25–<50% decrease from
baseline

2

Yes

≥3 platelet transfusions
in 24h

Yes

50–<75% decrease from
baseline

3

–

(continued)

Platelet transfusions and
other measures required to
improve platelet increment;
platelet transfusion
refractoriness associated
with life-threatening
bleeding, (e.g. HLA or
cross-matched platelet
transfusions)

Platelet transfusions and
other measures required to
improve platelet increment;
platelet transfusion
refractoriness associated
with life-threatening
bleeding (e.g. HLA or
cross-matched platelet
transfusions)

≥75% decrease from
baseline

4

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

791

None

For paediatric BMT studies,
if specified in the protocol

Conduction
abnormality/
atrioventricular (AV)
heart block

None

CARDIOVASCULAR (ARRHYTHMIA)

Blood/bone
marrow—Other
(specify, __________)

None

None

For BMT studies, if
specified in the protocol

Asymptomatic, not
requiring treatment
(e.g. Mobitz type
I second-degree AV
block, Wenckebach)

Mild

≤15mL/kg in 24h,
elective or planned

≤2 units of pRBCs
in 24h, elective or
planned

1

Grade

Symptomatic, but not
requiring treatment

Moderate

>15–≤ 30mL/kg in 24h,
elective or planned

3 units of pRBCs in 24h,
elective or planned

2

Symptomatic and
requiring treatment
(e.g. Mobitz type II
second-degree AV
block, third-degree AV
block)

Severe

>30mL/kg in 24h

≥4 units of pRBC in 24h

3

Life-threatening (e.g.
arrhythmia associated with
congestive heart failure
(CHF), hypotension,
syncope, shock)

Life-threatening or disabling

Haemorrhage or
haemolysis associated with
life-threatening anaemia;
medical intervention required
to improve Hb

Haemorrhage or
haemolysis associated with
life-threatening anaemia;
medical intervention
required to improve Hb

4

Appendix 1

Also consider Haemoglobin

0

Adverse event

792

NCIC common toxicity criteria

None

None

Nodal/junctional
arrhythmia/dysrhythmia

Palpitations

Present

Asymptomatic, not
requiring treatment

1

None

None

None

Sinus bradycardia

Sinus tachycardia

Supraventricular
arrhythmias
(supraventricular
tachycardia (SVT)/AF/
atrial flutter)

Asymptomatic, not
requiring treatment

Asymptomatic, not
requiring treatment

Asymptomatic, not
requiring treatment

Asymptomatic, not
requiring treatment

Vasovagal episode

None

–

Syncope (fainting) is graded in the NEUROLOGY category

None

Prolonged QTc interval
(>0.48s)

Grade

–

Symptomatic, but not
requiring treatment

2

Present without loss of
consciousness

Symptomatic, but not
requiring treatment

Symptomatic, but not
requiring treatment

Symptomatic, but not
requiring treatment

Symptomatic, but not
requiring treatment

Note: grade palpitations only in the absence of a documented arrhythmia

0

Adverse event

Present with loss of
consciousness

Symptomatic and
requiring treatment

Symptomatic and
requiring treatment of
underlying cause

Symptomatic and
requiring treatment

Symptomatic and
requiring treatment

–

Symptomatic and
requiring treatment

3

–

(continued)

Life-threatening (e.g.
arrhythmia associated
with CHF, hypotension,
syncope, shock)

–

Life-threatening (e.g.
arrhythmia associated
with CHF, hypotension,
syncope, shock)

Life-threatening (e.g.
arrhythmia associated
with CHF, hypotension,
syncope, shock)

Life-threatening (e.g.
arrhythmia associated
with CHF, hypotension,
syncope, shock)

4

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

793

None

None

Ventricular arrhythmia
(premature ventricular
contractions (PVCs)/
bigemini/trigemini/
ventricular tachycardia)

Cardiovascular/
arrhythmia—Other
(specify, __________)

Absent

None

Normal

Acute vascular leak
syndrome

Cardiac ischaemia/
infarction

Cardiac left ventricular
function

Asymptomatic decline
of resting ejection
fraction of ≥10%,
but <20% of baseline
value; shortening
fraction of ≥24%, but
<30%

Non-specific T-wave
flattening or changes

–

Asymptomatic, not
requiring treatment

Asymptomatic, not
requiring treatment

1

Grade

Life-threatening (e.g.
arrhythmia associated
with CHF, hypotension,
syncope, shock)

Life-threatening (e.g.
arrhythmia associated
with CHF, hypotension,
syncope, shock)

4

Angina without evidence
of infarction

Severe or refractory CHF
or requiring intubation

Acute MI

Respiratory compromise Life-threatening; requiring
or requiring fluids
pressor support and/or
ventilatory support

Symptomatic and
requiring treatment of
underlying cause

Symptomatic and
requiring treatment

3

Asymptomatic, but resting
CHF responsive to
ejection fraction below LLN treatment
for laboratory or decline
of resting ejection fraction
of ≥20% of baseline value;
<24% shortening fraction

Asymptomatic, ST- and
T-wave changes suggesting
ischaemia

Symptomatic, but not
requiring fluid support

Symptomatic, but not
requiring treatment

Symptomatic, but not
requiring treatment

2

Appendix 1

CARDIOVASCULAR (GENERAL)

0

Adverse event

794

NCIC common toxicity criteria

0

1

2

Normal

None

None

Cardiac troponin T
(cTnT)

Oedema

Hypertension

Asymptomatic,
transient increase by
>20mmHg (diastolic)
or to >150/100* if
previously WNL; not
requiring treatment

Asymptomatic, not
requiring therapy

≥0.03–<0.05ng/mL

–

Recurrent or persistent, or
symptomatic increase by
>20mmHg (diastolic) or
to >150/100* if previously
WNL; not requiring
treatment

Symptomatic, requiring
therapy

≥0.05–<0.1ng/mL

–

Grade

Requiring therapy or
more intensive therapy
than previously

Symptomatic oedema,
limiting function and
unresponsive to therapy
or requiring drug
discontinuation

≥0.1–<0.2ng/mL

Levels consistent
with unstable angina,
as defined by the
manufacturer

3

Hypotension

None

Changes, but not
requiring therapy
(including transient
orthostatic
hypotension)

Requiring brief fluid
replacement or other
therapy, but not
hospitalization; no
physiological consequences

Requiring therapy
and sustained
medical attention
but resolves without
persisting physiological
consequences

* Note: for paediatric patients, use age- and sex-appropriate normal values >95th percentile of the upper limit of normal (ULN)

Normal

Cardiac troponin I
(cTnI)

CNS cerebrovascular ischaemia is graded in the NEUROLOGY category

Adverse event

(continued)

i shock (associated with
acidaemia and impairing
vital organ function due to
tissue hypoperfusion)

Hypertensive crisis

Anasarca (severe
generalized oedema)

≥0.2ng/mL

Levels consistent with
MI, as defined by the
manufacturer

4

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

795

0

1

2

Grade
3

4

None

None

None

None

Operative injury of
vein/artery

Pericardial
effusion/pericarditis

Peripheral arterial
ischaemia

Phlebitis (superficial)

–

–

Asymptomatic
effusion, not requiring
treatment

° suture repair
for injury, but not
requiring transfusion

–

Present

Brief episode of ischaemia,
managed non-surgically and
without permanent deficit

Pericarditis (rub, ECG
changes, and/or chest pain)

° suture repair for injury,
requiring transfusion

–

Syncope (fainting) is graded in the NEUROLOGY category

Thrombosis/embolism is graded in the CARDIOVASCULAR (GENERAL) category

Notes: injection site reaction is graded in the DERMATOLOGY/SKIN category

None

Myocarditis

–

Requiring surgical
intervention

With physiological
consequences

Vascular occlusion
requiring surgery or
bypass for injury

CHF responsive to
treatment

–

Life-threatening or with
permanent functional
deficit (e.g. amputation)

Tamponade (drainage
or pericardial window
required)

MI; resection of organ (e.g.
bowel, limb)

Severe or refractory CHF

Appendix 1

For paediatric patients, systolic BP 65mmHg or less in infants up to 1y old and 70mmHg or less in children older than 1y of age, use two successive or three
measurements in 24h

Notes: angina or MI is graded as Cardiac ischaemia/infarction in the CARDIOVASCULAR (GENERAL) category

Also consider Syncope (fainting)

Adverse event

796

NCIC common toxicity criteria

None

Thrombosis/embolism

–

1

Grade
DVT, not requiring
anticoagulant

2
DVT, requiring
anticoagulant therapy

3

None

Cardiovascular/
general—Other
(specify, __________)

Mild

Moderate

Brief episode of ischaemia,
managed non-surgically and
without permanent deficit

Absent

–

–

WNL

WNL

Fibrinogen

For leukaemia studies or
bone marrow infiltrative/
myelophthisic process, if
specified in the protocol

<20% decrease from
pre-treatment value
or LLN

≥0.75–<1.0 × LLN
≥20–<40% decrease from
pre-treatment value or LLN

≥0.5–<0.75 × LLN

Note: must have increased fibrin-split products or D-dimer in order to grade as DIC

Also consider Platelets

DIC

Note: see the HAEMORRHAGE category for grading the severity of bleeding events.

COAGULATION

None

Visceral arterial ischaemia
(non-myocardial)

≥40–<70% decrease
from pre-treatment
value or LLN

≥0.25–<0.5 × LLN

Laboratory findings
present with no bleeding

Severe

Requiring surgical
intervention

Vein/artery operative injury is graded as Operative injury of vein/artery in the CARDIOVASCULAR (GENERAL) category

0

Adverse event

<50mg

<0.25 × LLN

(continued)

Laboratory findings and
bleeding

Life-threatening or disabling

Life-threatening or with
permanent functional
deficit (e.g. resection of
ileum)

Embolic event, including PE

4

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

797

WNL

Partial thromboplastin
time (PTT)

>ULN–≤1.5 × ULN

1

>ULN–≤1.5 × ULN

>1.5–≤2 × ULN

–

For BMT studies, if
specified in the protocol.

Evidence of red blood
cell (RBC) destruction
(schistocytosis)
without clinical
consequences

–

Evidence of RBC
destruction with elevated
creatinine (≤3 × ULN)

–

Grade

Evidence of RBC
destruction with
creatinine >3 × ULN,
not requiring dialysis

Laboratory findings
present without clinical
consequences

>2 × ULN

>2 × ULN

3

Coagulation—Other
(specify, __________)

None

Mild

Moderate

Severe

Note: must have microangiopathic changes on blood smear (e.g. schistocytes, helmet cells, red cell fragments)

Also consider Haemoglobin, Platelets, Creatinine

Absent

Thrombotic
microangiopathy,
e.g. thrombotic
thrombocytopenic
purpura (TTP) or
haemolytic uraemic
syndrome (HUS)

Thrombosis/embolism is graded in the CARDIOVASCULAR (GENERAL) category

WNL

>1.5–≤2 × ULN

2

Life-threatening or disabling

Evidence of RBC
destruction, with renal
failure requiring dialysis
and/or encephalopathy

Laboratory findings and
clinical consequences
(e.g. CNS haemorrhage/
bleeding or thrombosis/
embolism or renal failure),
requiring therapeutic
intervention

–

–

4

Appendix 1

Prothrombin time (PT)

Phlebitis is graded in the CARDIOVASCULAR (GENERAL) category

0

Adverse event

798

NCIC common toxicity criteria

0

None

Increased fatigue
over baseline, but
not altering normal
activities

1

None

38.0–39.0°C
(100.4–102.2°F)

None

Normal

Rigors, chills

Sweating (diaphoresis)

Mild and occasional

Mild, requiring
symptomatic
treatment (e.g.
blanket) or
non-narcotic
medication

Hot flashes/flushes are graded in the ENDOCRINE category

Grade

39.1–40.0°C
(102.3–104.0°F)

Moderate (e.g. decrease
in performance status
by 1 ECOG level or 20%
Karnofsky or Lansky) or
causing difficulty performing
some activities

2

Frequent or drenching

Severe and/or prolonged,
requiring narcotic
medication

Note: the temperature measurements listed above are oral or tympanic

Also consider Allergic reaction/hypersensitivity

Fever (in the absence
of neutropenia where
neutropenia is defined as
AGC <1.0 × l09/L)

Note: see Appendix 3 for performance status scales

Fatigue (lethargy, malaise,
asthenia)

CONSTITUTIONAL SYMPTOMS

Adverse event

4

–

Not responsive to
narcotic medication

>40.0°C (>104.0°F)
for <24h

–

–

(continued)

>40.0°C (>104.0°F) for
>24h

Severe (e.g. decrease in Bedridden or disabling
performance status by
≥2 ECOG levels or 40%
Karnofsky or Lansky) or
loss of ability to perform
some activities

3

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

799

<5%

Weight gain

5–<10%

1

≥2–<5%

<5%

5–<10%

None

Localized or in
dependent area

Mild hair loss

Mild

Generalized

Pronounced hair loss

Moderate

10–<20%

≥5–<10%

Grade

–

–

Severe

≥20%

≥10% or as ascites

≥20%

3

–

–

Life-threatening or disabling

–

≥10% or fluid retention,
resulting in pulmonary
failure

–

4

Note: bruising resulting from grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia is graded as petechiae/purpura and haemorrhage/bleeding with grade 3 or 4
HAEMORRHAGE category, not in the DERMATOLOGY/SKIN category

Normal

Bruising (in absence
of grade 3 or 4
thrombocytopenia)

None

Alopecia

DERMATOLOGY/SKIN

Constitutional
Symptoms—Other
(specify, __________)

Also consider vomiting, dehydration, diarrhoea

Weight loss

Also consider Ascites, Oedema, Pleural effusion (non-malignant)

<2%

10–<20%

2

Appendix 1

Weight gain associated
with veno-occlusive
disease (VOD) for BMT
studies, if specified in the
protocol

Also consider ascites, oedema, pleural effusion (non-malignant)

0

Adverse event

800

NCIC common toxicity criteria

Normal

Absent

Absent

None

None

Normal

Dry skin

Erythema multiforme
(e.g. Stevens–Johnson
syndrome, toxic
epidermal necrolysis)

Flushing

Hand–foot skin reaction

Injection site reaction

Nail changes

Discoloration or
ridging (koilonychia)
or pitting

Pain or itching or
erythema

Skin changes or
dermatitis without
pain (e.g. erythema,
peeling)

Present

–

Controlled with
emollients

1

None

None

Photosensitivity

Pigmentation changes
(e.g. vitiligo)

Grade

Painful erythema

Partial or complete loss of
nail(s) or pain in nail beds

Pain or swelling, with
inflammation or phlebitis

Skin changes with pain, not
interfering with function

–

Scattered, but not
generalized eruption

Not controlled with
emollients

2

Localized pigmentation Generalized pigmentation
changes
changes

Painless erythema

Petechiae is graded in the HAEMORRHAGE category

0

Adverse event

–

Erythema with
desquamation

–

Ulceration or necrosis
that is severe or
prolonged, or requiring
surgery

Skin changes with pain,
interfering with function

–

Severe or requiring IV
fluids (e.g. generalized
rash or painful
stomatitis)

–

3

–

–

–

–

–

–

(continued)

Life-threatening (e.g.
exfoliative or ulcerating
dermatitis or requiring
enteral or parenteral
nutritional support)

–

4

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

801

None

Pruritus

None

Grade

Faint erythema or dry
desquamation

Moderate to brisk
erythema or a patchy moist
desquamation, mostly
confined to skinfolds and
creases; moderate oedema

Confluent, moist
desquamation ≥1.5cm
in diameter and not
confined to skinfolds;
pitting oedema

Intense or widespread
and poorly controlled
despite treatment

3

Radiation recall reaction
(reaction following
chemotherapy in the
absence of additional
radiation therapy that
occurs in a previous
radiation port)

None

Faint erythema or dry
desquamation

Moderate to brisk
erythema or a patchy moist
desquamation, mostly
confined to skinfolds and
creases; moderate oedema

Confluent, moist
desquamation ≥1.5cm
in diameter and not
confined to skinfolds;
pitting oedema

Note: pain associated with radiation dermatitis is graded separately in the PAIN category as Pain due to radiation

Radiation dermatitis

2

Mild or localized,
Intense or widespread,
relieved spontaneously relieved spontaneously or
or by local measures
by systemic measures

1

Skin necrosis or ulceration
of full-thickness dermis;
may include bleeding not
induced by minor trauma
or abrasion

Skin necrosis or ulceration
of full-thickness dermis;
may include bleeding not
induced by minor trauma
or abrasion

–

4

Appendix 1

Purpura is graded in the HAEMORRHAGE category

0

Adverse event

802

NCIC common toxicity criteria

None

Rash/desquamation

Macular or papular
eruption or erythema,
without associated
symptoms

1

Grade
Macular or papular eruption
or erythema, with pruritus
or other associated
symptoms covering <50%
of body surface area or
localized desquamation
or other lesions covering
<50% of body surface area

2

Rash/dermatitis
None
associated with high- dose
chemotherapy or BMT
studies

Faint erythema or dry
desquamation

Moderate to brisk
erythema or a patchy moist
desquamation, mostly
confined to skinfolds and
creases; moderate oedema

4

Confluent, moist
desquamation ≥1.5cm
in diameter and not
confined to skinfolds;
pitting oedema

(continued)

Skin necrosis or ulceration
of full-thickness dermis;
may include spontaneous
bleeding not induced by
minor trauma or abrasion

Symptomatic generalized Generalized exfoliative
erythroderma or
dermatitis or ulcerative
macular, papular, or
dermatitis
vesicular eruption or
desquamation covering
≥50% of body surface
area

3

Note: Stevens–Johnson syndrome is graded separately as Erythema multiforme in the DERMATOLOGY/SKIN category

Also consider Allergic reaction/hypersensitivity

0

Adverse event

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

803

0

Macular or papular
eruption or erythema,
covering <25% of
body surface area,
without associated
symptoms

1

Grade
Symptomatic generalized
erythroderma or
symptomatic macular,
papular, or vesicular
eruption, with
bullous formation, or
desquamation covering
>50% of body surface
area

3

Cellulitis

None

None

None

Wound—infectious

Wound—non-infectious

Dermatology/
skin—Other
(specify, __________)

Mild

Incisional separation

Requiring no
medication

Urticaria (hives, welts,
wheals)

Moderate

Incisional hernia

Superficial infection

Requiring PO or topical
treatment or IV medication
or steroids for <24h

Severe

Fascial disruption
without evisceration

Infection requiring IV
antibiotics

Requiring IV medication
or steroids for ≥24h

Note: Stevens–Johnson syndrome is graded separately as Erythema multiforme in the DERMATOLOGY/SKIN category

Macular or papular eruption
or erythema, with pruritus
or other associated
symptoms covering ≥25–
<50% of body surface area
or localized desquamation
or other lesions covering
≥25–<50% of body surface
area

2

Life-threatening or disabling

Fascial disruption with
evisceration

Necrotizing fasciitis

–

Generalized exfoliative
dermatitis or ulcerative
dermatitis or bullous
formation

4

Appendix 1

Also consider Allergic reaction/hypersensitivity

Rash/desquamation
None
associated with
graft-versus-host disease
(GVHD) for BMT studies,
if specified in the protocol

Adverse event

804

NCIC common toxicity criteria

Absent

0

–

1

None

None

Absent

Absent

Absent

None

Gynaecomastia

Hot flashes/flushes

Hypothyroidism

Masculinization of ♀

SIADH

Endocrine—Other
(specify, _________)

Mild

–

–

Asymptomatic,TSH
elevated, no therapy
given

Mild or no more than
one per day

Mild

–

Anorexia

None

Loss of appetite

Amylase is graded in the METABOLIC/LABORATORY category

GASTROINTESTINAL

Absent

Feminization of ♂

Also consider Hyperglycaemia, Hypokalaemia

Cushingoid appearance
(e.g. moon face, buffalo
hump, centripetal obesity,
cutaneous striae)

ENDOCRINE

Adverse event

Grade

Oral intake significantly
decreased

Moderate

–

–

Symptomatic or thyroid
replacement treatment
given

Moderate and >1 per day

Pronounced or painful

–

Present

2

Requiring IV fluids

Severe

Present

Present

Patient hospitalized
for manifestations of
hypothyroidism

–

Pronounced or painful
and requiring surgery

Present

–

3

(continued)

Requiring feeding tube or
parenteral nutrition

Life-threatening or disabling

–

–

Myxoedema coma

–

–

–

–

4

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

805

None

None

Ascites (non-malignant)

Colitis

–

Asymptomatic

1

Grade

Abdominal pain with mucus
and/or blood in stool

Symptomatic, requiring
diuretics

2

Abdominal pain,
fever, change in bowel
habits with ileus or
peritoneal signs, and
radiographic or biopsy
documentation

Symptomatic, requiring
therapeutic paracentesis

3

Perforation or requiring
surgery or toxic megacolon

Life-threatening
physiological consequences

4

None

Dehydration

Dry mucous
membranes and/or
diminished skin turgor

Requiring stool
softener or dietary
modification
Requiring IV fluid
replacement (brief )

Requiring laxatives

Diarrhoea patients
without colostomy

None

Increase of <4
stools/day over
pre-treatment

Increase of 4–6 stools/day
or nocturnal stools

Also consider Diarrhoea, Vomiting, Stomatitis/pharyngitis (oral/pharyngeal mucositis), Hypotension

None

Constipation

Increase of ≥7 stools/
day or incontinence;
or need for parenteral
support for dehydration

Requiring IV fluid
replacement (sustained)

Obstipation, requiring
manual evacuation or
enema

Physiological consequences,
requiring intensive care; or
haemodynamic collapse

Physiological consequences
requiring intensive care;
haemodynamic collapse

Obstruction or toxic
megacolon

Appendix 1

Also consider Haemorrhage/bleeding with grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia, Haemorrhage/bleeding without grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia, Melaena/
GI bleeding, Rectal bleeding/haematochezia, Hypotension

0

Adverse event

806

NCIC common toxicity criteria

Grade

>10–≤15mL/kg of
diarrhoea/day

>1000–≤1500mL of
diarrhoea/day

Moderate increase in
loose, watery colostomy
output, compared with
pre-treatment, but not
interfering with normal
activity

2

>15mL/kg of diarrhoea/
day

>1500mL of diarrhoea/
day

Severe increase in loose,
watery colostomy
output, compared
with pre- treatment,
interfering with normal
activity

3

–

Severe abdominal pain,
with or without ileus

Physiologic consequences,
requiring intensive care; or
haemodynamic collapse

4

None

None

None

Duodenal ulcer
(requires radiographic
or endoscopic
documentation)

Duodenal ulcer
(requires radiographic
or endoscopic
documentation)

Dyspepsia/heartburn

Mild

–

–

Moderate

Requiring medical
management or
non-surgical treatment

Requiring medical
management or
non-surgical treatment

Severe

Uncontrolled by
outpatient medical
management; requiring
hospitalization

Uncontrolled by
outpatient medical
management; requiring
hospitalization

–
(continued)

Perforation or bleeding,
requiring emergency
surgery

Perforation or bleeding,
requiring emergency
surgery

Also consider Haemorrhage/bleeding with grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia, Haemorrhage/bleeding without grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia, Pain,
Dehydration, Hypotension

>5–≤10mL/kg of
diarrhoea/day

For paediatric BMT studies,
if specified in the protocol

Mild increase in loose,
watery colostomy
output, compared with
pre-treatment

>500–≤1000mL of
diarrhoea/day

None

Patients with a colostomy

1

Diarrhoea associated with None
GVHD for BMT studies, if
specified in the protocol

0

Adverse event

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

807

None

Dysphagia, oesophagitis,
odynophagia (painful
swallowing)

2

Grade

Mild dysphagia, but can Dysphagia, requiring
eat regular diet
predominantly pureed, soft,
or liquid diet

1
Dysphagia, requiring IV
hydration

3
Complete obstruction
(cannot swallow saliva);
requiring enteral or
parenteral nutritional
support, or perforation

4

None

Mild dysphagia, but can Dysphagia, requiring
eat regular diet
predominantly pureed, soft,
or liquid diet

None

Mild dysphagia, but can Dysphagia, requiring
eat regular diet
predominantly pureed, soft,
or liquid diet

Also consider Pain due to radiation, Mucositis due to radiation
Note: fistula is graded separately as Fistula—pharyngeal

Dysphagia—pharyngeal
related to radiation

Also consider Pain due to radiation, Mucositis due to radiation
Note: Fistula is graded separately as Fistula––oesophageal

Dysphagia—oesophageal
related to radiation

Dysphagia, requiring
feeding tube, IV
hydration, or
hyperalimentation

Dysphagia, requiring
feeding tube, IV
hydration, or
hyperalimentation

Complete obstruction
(cannot swallow saliva);
ulceration with bleeding
not induced by minor
trauma or abrasion or
perforation

Complete obstruction
(cannot swallow saliva);
ulceration with bleeding
not induced by minor
trauma or abrasion or
perforation

Appendix 1

Note: if the adverse event is radiation-related, grade either under Dysphagia—oesophageal related to radiation or Dysphagia—pharyngeal related to
radiation

0

Adverse event

808

NCIC common toxicity criteria

None

None

None

None

None

None

Fistula—oesophageal

Fistula—intestinal

Fistula—pharyngeal

Fistula—rectal/anal

Flatulence

Gastric ulcer
(requires radiographic
or endoscopic
documentation)

–

Mild

–

–

–

–

1

Grade

Requiring medical
management or
non-surgical treatment

Moderate

–

–

–

–

2

Bleeding without
perforation,
uncontrolled by
outpatient medical
management; requiring
hospitalization or
surgery

–

Present

Present

Present

Present

3

Perforation or bleeding,
requiring emergency
surgery

–

Requiring surgery

Requiring surgery

Requiring surgery

Requiring surgery

4

None

–

Requiring medical
management or
non-surgical treatment

Uncontrolled by
outpatient medical
management; requiring
hospitalization or
surgery

Ileus (or
neuroconstipation)

None

–

Intermittent, not requiring
intervention

Haematochezia is graded in the HAEMORRHAGE category as Rectal bleeding/haematochezia

Haematemesis is graded in the HAEMORRHAGE category
Requiring non-surgical
intervention

Requiring surgery

(continued)

Life-threatening bleeding,
requiring emergency
surgery

Also consider Haemorrhage/bleeding with grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia, Haemorrhage/bleeding without grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia

Gastritis

Also consider Haemorrhage/bleeding with grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia, Haemorrhage/bleeding without grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia

0

Adverse event

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

809

Normal

Mouth dryness

Mild

1
Moderate

2

Grade
–

3
–

4

None

Erythema of the
mucosa

Patchy pseudomembranous
reaction (patches generally
≤1.5cm in diameter and
non-contiguous)

Confluent pseudomemnous reaction
(contiguous patches
generally >1.5cm in
diameter)

Necrosis or deep
ulceration; may include
bleeding not induced by
minor trauma or abrasion

None

Pancreatitis

–

Able to eat
–

Oral intake significantly
decreased

Note: amylase is graded in the METABOLIC/LABORATORY category

Also consider Hypotension

None

Nausea

Abdominal pain, with
pancreatic enzyme
elevation

No significant intake,
requiring IV fluids

Complicated by shock
(acute circulatory failure)

–

Notes: grade radiation mucositis of the larynx here. Dysphagia related to radiation is also graded as either Dysphagia—oesophageal related to radiation
or Dysphagia—pharyngeal related to radiation, depending on the site of treatment

Also consider Pain due to radiation

Mucositis due to radiation

Radiation-related mucositis is graded as Mucositis due to radiation

Appendix 1

Notes: mucositis not due to radiation is graded in the GASTROINTESTINAL category for specific sites: colitis, oesophagitis, gastritis, stomatitis/
pharyngitis (oral/pharyngeal mucositis), and typhlitis; or the RENAL/GENITOURINARY category for vaginitis

MUCOSITIS

0

Adverse event

810

NCIC common toxicity criteria

0

1

2

Grade
3

None

Increased stool
frequency, occasional
blood-streaked
stools, or rectal
discomfort (including
haemorrhoids) not
requiring medication

Increased stool frequency,
bleeding, mucus discharge,
or rectal discomfort
requiring medication; anal
fissure necessitating pads

Increased stool
frequency/diarrhoea
requiring parenteral
support; rectal bleeding
requiring transfusion;
or persistent mucus
discharge

Perforation, bleeding,
or necrosis or other
life- threatening
complication requiring
surgical intervention (e.g.
colostomy)

4

None

Normal

None

Salivary gland changes

Sense of smell

Stomatitis/pharyngitis
(oral/pharyngeal
mucositis)

Painless ulcers,
erythema, or mild
soreness in the
absence of lesions

Slightly altered
Painful erythema, oedema,
or ulcers, but can eat or
swallow

Markedly altered

Slightly thickened
Thick, ropy, sticky saliva;
saliva; may have slightly markedly altered taste;
altered taste (e.g.
alteration in diet required
metallic); additional
fluids may be required

Painful erythema,
oedema, or ulcers
requiring IV hydration

–

–

(continued)

Severe ulceration or
requires parenteral or
enteral nutritional support
or prophylactic intubation

–

Acute salivary gland
necrosis

Proctitis occurring >90 days after the start of radiation therapy is graded in the RTOG/EORTC late radiation morbidity scoring scheme (see E RTOG/
EORTC late radiation morbidity scoring scheme, p. 844)

Notes: fistula is graded separately as Fistula—rectal/anal

Also consider Haemorrhage/bleeding with grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia, Haemorrhage/bleeding without grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia, Pain due
to radiation

Proctitis

Pharyngitis is graded in the GASTROINTESTINAL category as stomatitis/pharyngitis (oral/pharyngeal mucositis)

Adverse event

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

811

None

For BMT studies, if
specified in the protocol

Painless ulcers,
erythema, or mild
soreness in the
absence of lesions

1

None

Typhlitis (inflammation of
the caecum)

–

Slightly altered
–

Markedly altered
≥6 episodes in 24h over
pre-treatment; or need
for IV fluids

–

Painful erythema,
oedema, or ulcers,
preventing swallowing
or requiring hydration or
parenteral (or enteral)
nutritional support

3

Perforation, bleeding,
or necrosis or other
life-threatening complication
requiring surgical
intervention (e.g. colostomy)

–

Severe ulceration, requiring
prophylactic intubation or
resulting in documented
aspiration pneumonia

4

None

Over pre-treatment

2–5 episodes in 24h over
pre-treatment

Weight gain is graded in the CONSTITUTIONAL SYMPTOMS category

Also consider Dehydration

Vomiting

≥6 episodes in 24h over
pre-treatment; or need
for IV fluids

Requiring parenteral
nutrition; or physiological
consequences requiring
intensive care;
haemodynamic collapse

Also consider Haemorrhage/bleeding with grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia, Haemorrhage/bleeding without grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia,
Hypotension, Febrile neutropenia

Normal

Taste disturbance
(dysgeusia)

Grade
Painful erythema, oedema
or ulcers, but can swallow

2

Appendix 1

Note: radiation-related mucositis is graded as Mucositis due to radiation

0

Adverse event

812

NCIC common toxicity criteria

0

1

2

None

Mild

Moderate

Grade

Severe

3
Life-threatening or disabling

4

None

Mild without
transfusion

Requiring transfusion

Catastrophic bleeding,
requiring major nonelective intervention

None

Mild without
transfusion

Requiring transfusion

Catastrophic bleeding,
requiring major nonelective intervention

(continued)

Note: bleeding in the absence of grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia is graded here only if the specific site or type of bleeding is not listed elsewhere in the
HAEMORRHAGE category. Also grade as Other in the HAEMORRHAGE category

Also consider Platelets, Haemoglobin, Transfusion: platelets; Transfusion: pRBCs, haemorrhage—Other (specify, __________)

Haemorrhage/bleeding
without grade 3 or 4
thrombocytopenia

Also consider platelets, Haemoglobin, Transfusion: platelets, Transfusion: pRBCs, site or type of bleeding. If the site is not listed, grade as
Haemorrhage—Other (specify, __________)
Note: this adverse event must be graded for any bleeding with grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia

Haemorrhage/bleeding
with grade 3 or 4
thrombocytopenia

Notes: transfusion in this section refers to pRBC infusion
For any bleeding with grade 3 or 4 platelets (<50 000), always grade haemorrhage/bleeding with grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia. Also consider
Platelets, transfusion: pRBCs, and Transfusion: platelets, in addition to grading severity, by grading the site or type of bleeding
If the site or type of haemorrhage/bleeding is listed, also use the grading that incorporates the site of bleeding: CNS haemorrhage/bleeding, haematuria,
haematemesis, haemoptysis, haemorrhage/bleeding with surgery, melaena/lower GI bleeding, petechiae/purpura (haemorrhage/bleeding into skin),
rectal bleeding/haematochezia, vaginal bleeding
If the platelet count is ≥50 000/mm3 and the site or type of bleeding is listed, grade the specific site. If the site or type is not listed and the platelet count
is ≥50 000/mm3, grade haemorrhage/bleeding without grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia, and specify the site or type in the OTHER category

HAEMORRHAGE

Gastrointestinal—Other
(specify, _________)

Weight loss is graded in the CONSTITUTIONAL SYMPTOMS category

Adverse event

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

813

None

None

None

None

None

None

CNS haemorrhage/
bleeding

Epistaxis

Haematemesis

Haematuria (in the
absence of vaginal
bleeding)

Haemoptysis

Haemorrhage/bleeding
associated with surgery

Mild without
transfusion

Mild without
transfusion

Microscopic only

Mild without
transfusion

Mild without
transfusion

–

1

Grade

–

–

Intermittent gross bleeding,
no clots

–

–

–

2

Requiring transfusion

Requiring transfusion

Persistent gross bleeding
or clots; may require
catheterization or
instrumentation, or
transfusion

Requiring transfusion

Requiring transfusion

Bleeding noted on CT
or other scan with no
clinical consequences

3

Catastrophic bleeding,
requiring major nonelective intervention

Catastrophic bleeding,
requiring major nonelective intervention

Open surgery or necrosis
or deep bladder ulceration

Catastrophic bleeding,
requiring major nonelective intervention

Catastrophic bleeding,
requiring major nonelective intervention

Haemorrhagic stroke or
haemorrhagic CVA with
neurological signs and
symptoms

4

Appendix 1

Note: expected blood loss at the time of surgery is not graded as an adverse event

0

Adverse event

814

NCIC common toxicity criteria

None

None

None

None

Melaena/GI bleeding

Petechiae/purpura
(haemorrhage/bleeding
into skin or mucosa)

Rectal bleeding/
haematochezia

Vaginal bleeding

WNL

WNL

Normal

Alkaline phosphatase

Bilirubin

Bilirubin associated with
GVHD for BMT studies, if
specified in the protocol

HEPATIC

Haemorrhage—Other
None
(specify site, __________)

0

Adverse event

≥2–<3mg/100mL

>ULN–1.5 × ULN

>ULN–2.5 × ULN

Mild without
transfusion

Spotting, requiring <2
pads per day

Mild without
transfusion or
medication

Rare petechiae of skin

Mild without
transfusion

1

Grade

≥3–<6mg/100mL

>1.5–3.0 × ULN

>2.5–5.0 × ULN

Requiring ≥2 pads per
day, but not requiring
transfusion

Persistent, requiring
medication (e.g. steroid
suppositories) and/
or break from radiation
treatment

Petechiae or purpura in
dependent areas of skin

–

2

≥6–<15mg/100mL

>3.0–10.0 × ULN

>5.0–20.0 × ULN

Requiring transfusion

Requiring transfusion

Requiring transfusion

Generalized petechiae
or purpura of skin
or petechiae of any
mucosal site

Requiring transfusion

3

≥15mg/100mL

>10.0 × ULN

>20.0 × ULN

(continued)

Catastrophic bleeding,
requiring major
non-elective intervention

Catastrophic bleeding,
requiring major
non-elective intervention

Catastrophic bleeding,
requiring major
non-elective intervention

–

Catastrophic bleeding,
requiring major nonelective intervention

4

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

815

WNL

Absent

GGT

Hepatic enlargement

–

>ULN–2.5 × ULN

1
–

>2.5–5.0 × ULN

2

Grade

WNL

Normal

Normal

WNL

WNL

None

Hypoalbuminemia

Liver dysfunction/failure
(clinical)

Portal vein flow

SGOT (aspartate
aminotransferase,
AST) (serum glutamic
oxaloacetic transaminase)

SGPT (alanine
aminotransferase, ALT)
(serum glutamic pyruvic
transaminase)

Hepatic—Other
(specify, __________)

Mild

>ULN–2.5 × ULN

>ULN–2.5 × ULN

–

–

<LLN–3g/dL

Moderate

>2.5–5.0 × ULN

>2.5–5.0 × ULN

Decreased portal vein flow

–

≥2–<3g/dL

Severe

>5.0–20.0 × ULN

>5.0–20.0 × ULN

Reversal/retrograde
portal vein flow

Asterixis

<2g/dL

Present

>5.0–20.0 × ULN

3

Life-threatening or disabling

>20.0 × ULN

>20.0 × ULN

–

Encephalopathy or coma

–

–

>20.0 × ULN

4

Appendix 1

Note: grade hepatic enlargement only for treatment-related adverse event, including VOD

0

Adverse event

816

NCIC common toxicity criteria

0

None

Febrile neutropenia
(fever of unknown
origin without clinically
or microbiologically
documented infection)

–

Mild, no active
treatment

1

Grade

–

Moderate, localized
infection, requiring local or
oral treatment

2

None

–

–

None

–

–

Note: this adverse event criterion is used in the rare case when ANC is unknown

Infection with unknown
ANC

4

Present

Present

Present

(continued)

Life-threatening sepsis (e.g.
septic shock)

Life-threatening sepsis (e.g.
septic shock)

Life-threatening sepsis (e.g.
septic shock)

Severe, systemic infection, Life-threatening sepsis (e.g.
requiring IV antibiotic or
septic shock)
antifungal treatment, or
hospitalization

3

(ANC <1.0 × l09/L)
Also consider Neutrophils
Notes: hypothermia, instead of fever, may be associated with neutropenia and is graded here
In the absence of documented infection, grade 3 or 4 neutropenia with fever is graded as Febrile neutropenia

Infection (documented
clinically or
microbiologically) with
grade 3 or 4 neutropenia

Note: hypothermia, instead of fever, may be associated with neutropenia and is graded here

Also consider Neutrophils

(ANC <1.0 × l09/L, fever ≥38.5°C)

None

Catheter-related infection

INFECTION/FEBRILE NEUTROPENIA

Adverse event

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

817

None

Infection without
neutropenia

None

Lymphatics—Other
(specify, __________)

Acidosis (metabolic or
respiratory)

Normal

METABOLIC/LABORATORY

Normal

None

Lymphatics

LYMPHATICS

Infection/febrile
neutropenia—Other
(specify, __________)

Moderate

Moderate lymphoedema,
requiring compression;
lymphocyst

Moderate

pH < normal, but ≥7.3 –

Mild

Mild lymphoedema

Mild

Grade
Moderate, localized
infection, requiring local or
oral treatment

2

Wound infections are graded in the DERMATOLOGY/SKIN category

Mild, no active
treatment

1

pH <7.3

Severe

Severe lymphoedema
limiting function;
lymphocyst requiring
surgery

Severe

Severe, systematic
infection, requiring
IV antibiotic or
antifungal treatment, or
hospitalization

3

pH <7.3, with
life-threatening
physiological consequences

Life-threatening or disabling

Severe lymphoedema
limiting function, with
ulceration

Life-threatening or disabling

Life-threatening sepsis (e.g.
septic shock)

4

Appendix 1

Also consider Neutrophils

0

Adverse event

818

NCIC common toxicity criteria

0

Normal

WNL

WNL

WNL

WNL

WNL

WNL

WNL

WNL

WNL

WNL

Adverse event

Alkalosis (metabolic or
respiratory)

Amylase

Bicarbonate

CPK (creatine
phosphokinase)

Hypercalcaemia

Hypercholesterolaemia

Hyperglycaemia

Hyperkalaemia

Hypermagnesaemia

Hypernatraemia

Hypertriglycer idaemia

2

>ULN–2.5 × ULN

>ULN–150mmol/L

>ULN–1.23mmol/L

>ULN–3.0mg/dL

>2.5–5.0 × ULN

>150–155mmol/L

–

>5.5–6.0mmol/L

>8.9–13.9mmol/L

>ULN–8.9mmol/L

>ULN–5.5mmol/L

>160–250mg/dL

>7.75–10.34mmol/L

>ULN–7.75mmol/L

>ULN–160mg/dL

>300–400mg/dL

>2.9–3.1mmol/L

>ULN–300mg/dL

>11.5–12.5mg/dL

>ULN–2.9mmol/L

>2.5–5 × ULN

11–15mEq/dL

>1.5–2.0 × ULN

Grade

>ULN–11.5mg/dL

>ULN–2.5 × ULN

<LLN–16mEq/dL

>ULN–1.5 × ULN

pH > normal, but ≤7.5 –

1

>5.0–10 × ULN

>155–160mmol/L

>1.23–3.30mmol/L

>3.0–8.0mg/dL

>6.0–7.0mmol/L

>13.9–27.8mmol/L

>250–500mg/dL

>10.34–12.92mmol/L

>400–500mg/dL

>3.1–3.4mmol/L

>12.5–13.5mg/dL

>5–10 × ULN

8–10mEq/dL

>2.0–5.0 × ULN

pH >7.5

3

>10 × ULN

>160mmol/L

>3.30mmol/L

>8.0mg/dL

>7.0mmol/L

(continued)

>27.8mmol/L or acidosis

>500mg/dL

>12.92mmol/L

>500mg/dL

>3.4mmol/L

>13.5mg/dL

>10 × ULN

<8mEq/dL

>5.0 × ULN

pH >7.5, with
life-threatening
physiological consequences

4

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

819

WNL

Hyperuricaemia

≤0.59mmol/L
without physiological
consequences

>ULN–<10mg/dL

1
–

2

WNL

WNL

WNL

WNL

WNL

Hypoglycaemia

Hypokalaemia

Hypomagnesaemia

Hyponatraemia

Hypophosphataemia
≥0.6–<0.8mmol/L

<LLN–0.8mmol/L

Lipase

WNL

>ULN–1.5 × ULN

>1.5–2.0 × ULN

≥2.0–<2.5mg/dL

>2.0–5.0 × ULN

≥0.3–<0.6mmol/L

≥1.0–<2.0mg/dL

120–<130mmol/L

0.3–<0.4mmol/L

0.4–<0.5mmol/L
–

0.7–<0.9mg/dL

2.5–<3.0mmol/L

1.7–<2.2mmol/L

30–<40mg/dL

1.5–<1.75mmol/L

6.0–<7.0mg/dL

≤0.59mmol/L
with physiological
consequences

>ULN–<10mg/dL

3

0.9–<1.2mg/dL

<LLN–2.5mg/dL

<LLN–130mmol/L

<LLN–1.2mg/dL
<LLN–0.5mmol/L

–

2.2–<3.0mmol/L

<LLN–3.0mmol/L

<LLN–3.0mmol/L

40–<55mg/dL

1.75–<2.0mmol/L

<LLN–2.0mmol/L

<LLN–55mg/dL

7.0–<8.0mg/dL

<LLN–8.0mg/dL

Hypothyroidism is graded in the ENDOCRINE category

WNL

Hypocalcaemia

Grade

>5.0 × ULN

<0.3mmol/L

<1.0mg/dL

<120mmol/L

<0.3mmol/L

<0.7mg/dL

<2.5mmol/L

<1.7mmol/L

<30mg/dL

<1.5mmol/L

<6.0mg/dL

>0.59mmol/L

>10mg/dL

4

Appendix 1

Also consider Tumour lysis syndrome, Renal failure, Creatinine, Hyperkalaemia

0

Adverse event

820

NCIC common toxicity criteria

None

Metabolic/
laboratory—Other
(specify, __________)

Normal

Muscle weakness normal
(not due to neuropathy)

Asymptomatic, with
weakness on physical
exam

Mild pain, with
inflammation,
erythema, or joint
swelling, but not
interfering with
function

Mild

1

None

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Note: myositis implies muscle damage (i.e. elevated CPK)

Also consider CPK

Myositis (inflammation/
damage of muscle)

Grade

Severe pain, with
inflammation, erythema,
or joint swelling and
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe

3

Pain, interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Pain, interfering with
function and interfering
with activities of daily
living

Symptomatic and interfering Symptomatic and
with function, but not
interfering with activities
interfering with activities of of daily living
daily living

Moderate pain, with
inflammation, erythema,
or joint swelling interfering
with function, but not
interfering with activities of
daily living

Moderate

2

Myalgia (tenderness or pain in muscles) is graded in the PAIN category

None

Arthritis

Arthralgia is graded in the PAIN category

MUSCULOSKELETAL

0

Adverse event

(continued)

Bedridden or disabling

Bedridden or disabling

Disabling

Life-threatening or disabling

4

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

821

None

None

Osteonecrosis (avascular
necrosis)

Musculoskeletal—Other
(specify, –––––––––)

Grade
3

Moderate

Severe

Symptomatic and interfering Symptomatic and
with function, but not
interfering with activities
interfering with activities of of daily living
daily living

2

Absent

None

CNS cerebrovascular
ischaemia

–

Asymptomatic,
but abnormal on
physical exam, and
not interfering with
function

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

–

Mild symptoms, interfering
with function, but not
interfering with activities of
daily living

Moderate pain, interfering
with function, but not
interfering with activities of
daily living

CNS haemorrhage/bleeding is graded in the HAEMORRHAGE category

Normal

Ataxia (incoordination)

Also consider Headache, Vomiting, Fever

Arachnoiditis/
meningismus/radiculitis

Transient ischaemic
event or attack (TIA)

Moderate symptoms,
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe pain, interfering
with activities of daily
living

Aphasia, receptive and/or expressive, is graded under Speech impairment in the NEUROLOGY category

Mild

Asymptomatic and
detected by imaging
only

1

Permanent event (e.g.
CVA)

Bedridden or disabling

Unable to function or
perform activities of daily
living; bedridden; paraplegia

Life-threatening or disabling

Symptomatic; or disabling

4

Appendix 1

NEUROLOGY

0

Adverse event

822

NCIC common toxicity criteria

None

Normal

Cognitive disturbance/
learning problems

Confusion

Confusion or
disorientation or
attention deficit of
brief duration; resolves
spontaneously with no
sequelae

Cognitive disability; not
interfering with work/
school performance;
preservation of
intelligence

1

Normal

Depressed level of
consciousness

Somnolence or
sedation, not
interfering with
function

–

Confusion or disorientation
or attention deficit,
interfering with function,
but not interfering with
activities of daily living

None

Not interfering with
function

Interfering with function,
but not interfering with
activities of daily living

Somnolence or sedation,
interfering with function,
but not interfering with
activities of daily living

–

Interfering with activities
of daily living

Obtundation or stupor;
difficult to arouse;
interfering with activities
of daily living

Present

Confusion or delirium,
interfering with activities
of daily living

Cognitive disability;
resulting in significant
impairment of work/
school performance;
cognitive decline >2 SD

3

Dysphasia, receptive and/or expressive, is graded under Speech impairment in the NEUROLOGY category

Dizziness/
light-headedness

Note: syncope (fainting) is graded in the NEUROLOGY category

Normal

Delusions

Grade
Cognitive disability;
interfering with work/school
performance; decline of
1 standard deviation (SD)
or loss of developmental
milestones

2

Cranial neuropathy is graded in the NEUROLOGY category as Neuropathy—cranial

0

Adverse event

(continued)

Bedridden or disabling

Coma

Toxic psychosis

Harmful to others or self;
requiring hospitalization

Inability to work/frank
mental retardation

4

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

823

None

Normal

Extrapyramidal/
involuntary movement/
restlessness

Hallucinations

Normal

Occasional difficulty
sleeping, not
interfering with
function

Grade

Difficulty sleeping,
interfering with function,
but not interfering with
activities of daily living

–

Moderate involuntary
movements, interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

2

4

Frequent difficulty
sleeping, interfering with
activities of daily living

Present
–

Toxic psychosis

Severe involuntary
Bedridden or disabling
movements or torticollis,
interfering with activities
of daily living

3

Normal

None

Irritability (children <3y
of age)

Leucoencephalopathy
associated radiological
findings

Severe increase in SAS;
severe ventriculomegaly;
near total white matter
T2 hyperintensities or
diffuse low attenuation
(CT); focal white matter
necrosis (cystic)

Moderate; requiring increased Severe; inconsolable
attention

Mild increase in
Moderate increase in
subarachnoid space
SAS; and/or moderate
(SAS); and/or mild
ventriculomegaly; and/or
ventriculomegaly; and/ focal T2 hyperintensities
or small (± multiple)
extending into centrum
focal T2 hyperintensities, ovale; or involving 1/3–2/3
involving periventricular of susceptible areas of
white matter or <1/3
cerebrum
of susceptible areas of
cerebrum

Mild; easily consolable

Severe increase in SAS;
severe ventriculomegaly;
diffuse low attenuation
with calcification (CT);
diffuse white matter
necrosis (MRI)

–

Note: this adverse event is graded when insomnia is related to treatment. If pain or other symptoms interfere with sleep, do not grade as Insomnia

Insomnia

–

Mild involuntary
movements, not
interfering with
function

1

Appendix 1

Headache is graded in the PAIN category

0

Adverse event

824

NCIC common toxicity criteria

Normal

Mood
alteration—euphoria

Absent

Normal

Neuropathy—cranial

Neuropathy—motor

Subjective weakness,
but no objective
findings

–

Neuropathic pain is graded in the PAIN category

Mild mood alteration,
not interfering with
function

Mild mood alteration,
not interfering with
function

Normal

Mood
alteration—depression

Memory loss, not
interfering with
function

Mild mood alteration,
not interfering with
function

Normal

Memory loss

1

Mood alteration—anxiety, Normal
agitation

0

Adverse event

Grade

Severe mood alteration,
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe mood alteration,
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe mood alteration,
interfering with activities
of daily living

Memory loss, interfering
with activities of daily
living

3

Mild objective weakness,
interfering with function,
but not interfering with
activities of daily living

Objective weakness,
interfering with activities
of daily living

Present, not interfering with Present, interfering with
activities of daily living
activities of daily living

Moderate mood alteration,
interfering with function,
but not interfering with
activities of daily living

Moderate mood alteration,
interfering with function,
but not interfering with
activities of daily living

Moderate mood alteration,
interfering with function,
but not interfering with
activities of daily living

Memory loss, interfering
with function, but not
interfering with activities of
daily living

2

Paralysis

(continued)

Life-threatening, disabling

Danger to self

Suicidal ideation or danger
to self

Suicidal ideation or danger
to self

Amnesia

4

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

825

Normal

Absent

Neuropathy—sensory

Nystagmus

Normal

None

Pyramidal tract dysfunction
(e.g. tone, hyperreflexia,
positive Babinski, fine
motor coordination)

Seizure(s)

Speech impairment
Normal
(e.g. dysphasia or aphasia)

Normal

Personality/behavioural

–

–

Asymptomatic, with
abnormality on
physical examination

Change, but not
disruptive to patient
or family

Present

Loss of deep
tendon reflexes or
paraesthesiae (including
tingling), but not
interfering with function

1

Grade

Awareness of receptive
or expressive dysphasia,
not impairing ability to
communicate

Seizure(s) self-limited and
consciousness is preserved

Symptomatic or interfering
with function, but not
interfering with activities of
daily living

Disruptive to patient or
family

–

Objective sensory loss or
paraesthesiae (including
tingling), interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

2

Toxic psychosis

Permanent sensory
loss that interferes with
function

4

Receptive or expressive
dysphasia, impairing
ability to communicate

Seizure(s) in which
consciousness is altered

Interfering with activities
of daily living

Inability to communicate

Seizures of any type that
are prolonged, repetitive,
or difficult to control
(e.g. status epilepticus,
intractable epilepsy)

Bedridden or disabling;
paralysis

Disruptive to patient and Harmful to others or self;
family; requiring mental
requiring hospitalization
health intervention

–

Sensory loss or
paraesthesiae interfering
with activities of daily
living

3

Appendix 1

Also consider Vision—double vision

0

Adverse event

826

NCIC common toxicity criteria

Absent

Syncope (fainting)

–

1
–

2

Grade
Present

3

None

None

Vertigo

Neurology—Other
(specify, __________)

None

None

Cataract

Conjunctivitis

OCULAR/VISUAL

None

Tremor

Abnormal
ophthalmological
changes, but
asymptomatic or
symptomatic without
visual impairment (i.e.
pain and irritation)

Asymptomatic

Mild

Not interfering with
function

Mild and brief or
intermittent, but
not interfering with
function

Symptomatic, visual loss
requiring treatment or
interfering with function

Severe

Interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe tremor,
interfering with activities
of daily living

Symptomatic and interfering Symptomatic and
with function, but not
interfering with activities
interfering with activities of of daily living
daily living

Symptomatic, partial visual
loss

Moderate

Interfering with function,
but not interfering with
activities of daily living

Moderate tremor,
interfering with function,
but not interfering with
activities of daily living

Also consider CARDIOVASCULAR (ARRHYTHMIA), Vasovagal episode, CNS cerebrovascular ischaemia

0

Adverse event

–

–

(continued)

Life-threatening or disabling

Bedridden or disabling

–

–

4

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

827

0

Normal

None

None

None

Normal

Normal

Adverse event

Dry eye

Glaucoma

Keratitis (corneal
inflammation/corneal
ulceration)

Tearing (watery eyes)

Vision—blurred vision

Vision––double vision
(diplopia)

–

–

Mild: not interfering
with function

Grade

Visual impairment

–

3

Interfering with activities
of daily living

Symptomatic and interfering Symptomatic and
with function, but not
interfering with activities
interfering with activities of of daily living
daily living

Symptomatic and interfering Symptomatic and
with function, but not
interfering with activities
interfering with activities of of daily living
daily living

Moderate: interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Symptomatic and interfering Symptomatic and
with function, but not
interfering with activities
interfering with activities of of daily living
daily living

Increase in intraocular
pressure, with retinal
changes

Moderate or requiring
artificial tears

2

–

–

–

Unilateral or bilateral loss
of vision (blindness)

Unilateral or bilateral loss
of vision (blindness)

–

4

Appendix 1

Abnormal
ophthalmological
changes, but
asymptomatic or
symptomatic, without
visual impairment (i.e.
pain and irritation)

Increase in intraocular
pressure, but no visual
loss

Mild, not requiring
treatment

1

828

NCIC common toxicity criteria

Normal

Normal

Normal

Normal

Vision––flashing lights/
floaters

Vision—night blindness
(nyctalopia)

Vision—photophobia

Ocular/visual—Other
(specify, __________)

None

None

Abdominal pain or
cramping

Arthralgia (joint pain)

PAIN

0

Adverse event

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Mild

–

Abnormal
electroretinography,
but asymptomatic

Mild, not interfering
with function

1

Grade
3

Moderate pain: pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Moderate pain: pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Moderate

Severe pain: pain or
analgesics severely
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe pain: pain or
analgesics severely
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe

Symptomatic and interfering Symptomatic and
with function, but not
interfering with activities
interfering with activities of of daily living
daily living

Symptomatic and interfering Symptomatic and
with function, but not
interfering with activities
interfering with activities of of daily living
daily living

Symptomatic and interfering Symptomatic and
with function, but not
interfering with activities
interfering with activities of of daily living
daily living

2

Disabling

Disabling

(continued)

Unilateral or bilateral loss
of vision

–

–

–

4

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

829

0

1

2

Grade
3

None

None

None

Chest pain (non-cardiac
and non-pleuritic)

Dysmenorrhoea

Dyspareunia

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Earache (otalgia)

None

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Moderate pain: pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Moderate pain, interfering
with sexual activity

Moderate pain: pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Moderate pain: pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Moderate pain: pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Severe pain: pain or
analgesics severely
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe pain, preventing
sexual activity

Severe pain: pain or
analgesics severely
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe pain: pain or
analgesics severely
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe pain: pain or
analgesics severely
interfering with activities
of daily living

Disabling

–

Disabling

Disabling

Disabling

4

Appendix 1

Dysuria is graded in the RENAL/GENITOURINARY category

None

Bone pain

Arthritis (joint pain with clinical signs of inflammation) is graded in the MUSCULOSKELETAL category

Adverse event

830

NCIC common toxicity criteria

0

None

None

None

None

None

None

Adverse event

Headache

Hepatic pain

Myalgia (muscle pain)

Neuropathic pain (e.g.
jaw pain, neurological
pain, phantom limb pain,
post-infectious neuralgia,
or painful neuropathies)

Pain due to radiation

Pelvic pain

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

1

Grade

Moderate pain: pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Moderate pain: pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Moderate pain: pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Moderate pain: pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Moderate pain: pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Moderate pain: pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

2

Severe pain: pain or
analgesics severely
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe pain: pain or
analgesics severely
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe pain: pain or
analgesics severely
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe pain: pain or
analgesics severely
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe pain: pain or
analgesics severely
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe pain: pain or
analgesics severely
interfering with activities
of daily living

3

Disabling

Disabling

Disabling

Disabling

Disabling

Disabling

4

(continued)

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

831

None

None

None

Pleuritic pain

Rectal or perirectal pain
(proctalgia)

Tumour pain (onset or
exacerbation of tumour
pain due to treatment)

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

1

≥90% of pre- ≥75–<90% of
treatment or pre-treatment or
normal value normal value

Carbon monoxide
diffusion capacity (DLCO)

–

None

Apnoea

–

Mild

Absent

None

Adult respiratory distress
syndrome (ARDS)

PULMONARY

Pain—Other
(specify, –––––––––––)

Grade

≥50–<75% of
pre-treatment or normal
value

–

–

Moderate

Moderate pain: pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Moderate pain: pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Moderate pain: pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

2

Requiring intubation

Present

Disabling

Disabling

Disabling

Disabling

4

≥25–<50% of
<25% of pre-treatment or
pre-treatment or normal normal value
value

Present

–

Severe

Severe pain: pain or
analgesics severely
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe pain: pain or
analgesics severely
interfering with activities
of daily living

Severe pain: pain or
analgesics severely
interfering with activities
of daily living

3

Appendix 1

Tumour flare is graded in the SYNDROME category

0

Adverse event

832

NCIC common toxicity criteria

≥90% of pre- ≥75–<90% of
treatment or pre-treatment or
normal value normal value

None

Normal

None

Forced expiratory volume
in 1s (FEV1)

Hiccoughs (hiccups,
singultus)

Hypoxia

Pleural effusion
(non-malignant)

Pneumonitis/pulmonary
infiltrates

None

Pleuritic pain is graded in the PAIN category

Normal

Dyspnoea (shortness of
breath)

Radiographic changes,
but asymptomatic
or symptoms not
requiring steroids

Asymptomatic and not
requiring treatment

–

Mild, not requiring
treatment

–

Mild, relieved by
non-prescription
medication

Absent

Cough

1

0

Adverse event

Grade

Radiographic changes
and requiring steroids or
diuretics

Symptomatic, requiring
diuretics

Decreased O2 saturation
with exercise

Moderate, requiring
treatment

≥50–<75% of
pre-treatment or normal
value

Dyspnoea on exertion

Requiring narcotic
antitussive

2

Dyspnoea at rest or
requiring ventilator support

–

4

–

Radiographic changes
and requiring O2

Symptomatic, requiring
O2 or therapeutic
thoracentesis

(continued)

Radiographic changes
and requiring assisted
ventilation

Life-threatening (e.g
requiring intubation)

Decreased O2 saturation Decreased O2 saturation,
at rest, requiring
requiring pressure support
supplemental O2
(continuous positive
airway pressure, CPAP) or
assisted ventilation

Severe, prolonged, and
refractory to treatment

≥25–<50% of
<25% of pre-treatment or
pre-treatment or normal normal value
value

Dyspnoea at normal
level of activity

Severe cough or
coughing spasms,
poorly controlled
or unresponsive to
treatment

3

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

833

None

Pneumothorax

No intervention
required

1

Grade
Chest tube required

2

Radiographic changes,
but asymptomatic
or symptoms not
requiring steroids

Requiring steroids or
diuretics

Requiring O2

Requiring assisted
ventilation

Life-threatening

4

Normal

Mild or intermittent
hoarseness

Persistent hoarseness, but
able to vocalize; may have
mild to moderate oedema

Whispered speech, not
able to vocalize; may
have marked oedema

Marked dyspnoea/stridor
requiring tracheostomy or
intubation

Bladder spasms

RENAL/GENITOURINARY

Pulmonary—Other
(specify, –––––––––––)

Absent

None

Mild symptoms, not
requiring intervention

Mild

Symptoms requiring
antispasmodic

Moderate

Severe symptoms
requiring narcotic

Severe

–

Life-threatening or disabling

Radiation-related haemoptysis from larynx/pharynx is graded as Grade 4 mucositis due to radiation in the GASTROINTESTINAL category;
radiation-related haemoptysis from the thoracic cavity is graded as Grade 4 haemoptysis in the HAEMORRHAGE category

Notes: cough from radiation is graded as Cough in the PULMONARY category

Voice changes/stridor/
larynx (e.g. hoarseness,
loss of voice, laryngitis)

Note: radiation-related pulmonary fibrosis is graded in the RTOG/EORTC late radiation morbidity scoring scheme—lung (see E RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity scoring scheme, p. 844)

None

Sclerosis or surgery
required

3

Appendix 1

Pulmonary fibrosis

PE is graded as Thrombosis/embolism in the CARDIOVASCULAR (GENERAL) category

0

Adverse event

834

NCIC common toxicity criteria

WNL

Creatinine

>ULN–1.5

1

None

–

Fistula or genitourinary
fistula (e.g. vaginal,
vesicovaginal)

Haemoglobinuria

Present

–

Mild symptoms
requiring no
intervention

Grade

–

–

Symptoms relieved with
therapy

ULN >1.5–3.0 × ULN

2

None

Normal or
<0.15g/24h

Operative injury to
bladder and/or ureter

Proteinuria

1+ or 0.15–1.0g/24h

–

With coughing,
sneezing, etc.

2+ to 3+ or 1.0–3.5g/24h

Injury of bladder with °
repair

Spontaneous, some control

4+ or >3.5g/24h

Sepsis, fistula, or
obstruction requiring
2° surgery; loss of
one kidney; injury
requiring anastomosis or
re-implantation

No control (in the
absence of fistula)

–

Requiring intervention

Symptoms not relieved,
despite therapy

>3.0–6.0 × ULN

3

Renal failure

None

–

–

Requiring dialysis, but
reversible

Note: if there is an inconsistency between the absolute value and dipstick reading, use the absolute value for grading

None

Incontinence

Haematuria (in the absence of vaginal bleeding) is graded in the HAEMORRHAGE category

None

Dysuria (painful urination)

Note: adjust to age-appropriate levels for paediatric patients

0

Adverse event

(continued)

Requiring dialysis and
irreversible

Nephrotic syndrome

Septic obstruction of both
kidneys or vesicovaginal
fistula requiring diversion

–

–

Requiring surgery

–

>6.0 × ULN

4

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

835

None

None

Ureteral obstruction

Urinary electrolyte
wasting (e.g. Fanconi’s
syndrome, renal tubular
acidosis)

Asymptomatic, not
requiring treatment

Unilateral, not
requiring surgery

1

Hesitancy or dribbling,
but no significant
residual urine;
retention occurring
during the immediate
post-operative period

Asymptomatic, change
in urine colour

Normal

Urinary retention

Urine colour change (not Normal
related to other dietary or
physiological cause, e.g.
bilirubin, concentrated
urine, haematuria)

Increase in frequency
or nocturia up to 2 ×
normal

Normal

Urinary frequency/
urgency

Grade

Mild, reversible, and
manageable with oral
replacement

–

2

–

Hesitancy requiring
medication or occasional
in/out catheterization (<4
× per week), or operative
bladder atony requiring
indwelling catheter beyond
immediate post-operative
period, but for <6wk

Increase >2 × normal, but
< hourly

–

Requiring frequent in/
out catheterization
(≥4 × per week) or
urological intervention
(e.g. TURP, suprapubic
tube, urethrotomy)

Hourly or more, with
urgency or requiring
catheter

Reversible, but requiring
IV replacement

Bilateral, not requiring
surgery

3

–

Bladder rupture

–

Irreversible, requiring
continued replacement

Stent, nephrostomy tube,
or surgery

4

Appendix 1

Also consider Acidosis, Bicarbonate, Hypocalcaemia, Hypophosphataemia

0

Adverse event

836

NCIC common toxicity criteria

0

1

–

Mild

Mild, not requiring
treatment

Normal

Female sterility

–

Mild (erections
impaired, but
satisfactory)

Feminization of the ♂ is graded in the ENDOCRINE category

Normal

Erectile impotence

Dysmenorrhoea is graded in the PAIN category

Dyspareunia is graded in the PAIN category

SEXUAL/REPRODUCTIVE FUNCTION

2° malignancy—Other
(specify type, ________);
excludes metastasis from
initial °

None

None

Renal/
genitourinary—Other
(specify, ________)

2° MALIGNANCY

None

Vaginitis (not due to
infection)

Vaginal bleeding is graded in the HAEMORRHAGE category

Adverse event

Grade

–

Moderate (erections
impaired, unsatisfactory for
intercourse)

–

Moderate

Moderate, relieved with
treatment

2

4

Sterile

No erections

–

Severe

–

–

Present

(continued)

Life-threatening or disabling

Severe, not relieved with Ulceration requiring
treatment, or ulceration surgery
not requiring surgery

3

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

837

Normal

Normal

–

Irregular menses (change
from baseline)

Libido

♂ infertility

–

Decrease in interest

Occasionally irregular
or lengthened interval,
but continuing
menstrual cycles

1

None

Sexual/reproductive
function—Other
(specify, –––––––––––)

Mild

Mild

Moderate

Requiring treatment and/
or interfering with sexual
function, dyspareunia

Oligospermia (low sperm
count)

Severe loss of interest

DIC is graded in the COAGULATION category

Autoimmune reactions are graded in the ALLERGY/IMMUNOLOGY category

ARDS is graded in the PULMONARY category

Acute vascular leak syndrome is graded in the CARDIOVASCULAR (GENERAL) category

SYNDROMES (not included in previous categories)

Normal

Vaginal dryness

Grade
Very irregular, but
continuing menstrual cycles

2

Severe

–

Azoospermia (no
sperm)

–

Persistent amenorrhoea

3

Disabling

–

–

–

–

4

Appendix 1

Masculinization of the ♀ is graded in the ENDOCRINE category

0

Adverse event

838

NCIC common toxicity criteria

0

1

2

Grade
3

None

Mild pain, not
interfering with
function

Moderate pain; pain or
analgesics interfering with
function, but not interfering
with activities of daily living

Severe pain; pain or
analgesics interfering
with function and
interfering with activities
of daily living

Disabling

4

Absent

–

–

Present

–

Syndromes—Other
(specify,___________)

None

Mild

Moderate

Severe

Life-threatening or disabling

Urinary electrolyte wasting (e.g. Fanconi’s syndrome, renal tubular acidosis) is graded in the RENAL/GENITOURINARY category

Also consider Hyperkalaemia, Creatinine

Tumour lysis syndrome

Note: tumour flare is characterized by a constellation of symptoms and signs in direct relation to initiation of therapy (e.g. anti-oestrogens/androgens or
additional hormones). The symptoms/signs include tumour pain, inflammation of visible tumour, hypercalcaemia, diffuse bone pain, and other electrolyte
disturbances

Also consider Hypercalcaemia

Tumour flare

Thrombotic microangiopathy (e.g. TTP or HUS) is graded in the COAGULATION category

SIADH is graded in the ENDOCRINE category

Stevens–Johnson syndrome (erythema multiforme) is graded in the DERMATOLOGY/SKIN category

Renal tubular acidosis is graded as Urinary electrolyte wasting in the RENAL/GENITOURINARY category

Fanconi’s syndrome is graded as Urinary electrolyte wasting in the RENAL/GENITOURINARY category

Adverse event

Common toxicity criteria (CTC)

839

840

Appendix 1

NCIC common toxicity criteria

Adverse event module
To be implemented at the request of the study sponsor or principal investigator in the protocol or by protocol amendment when more detailed information is considered pertinent.
Adverse event:

Date of treatment:

Course number:

Date of onset:

Grade at onset:

Date of first change in grade:

Grade:

Date of next change in grade:

Grade:

Date of next change in grade:

Grade:

Date of next change in grade:

Grade:

Date of next change in grade:

Grade:

Date of next change in grade:
Did adverse event resolve?
If so, date of resolution of
adverse event:

Grade:
Yes_____ No_____

Date of last observation (if
prior to recovery):
Reason(s) observations
stopped (if prior to recovery):
Was patient retreated?

Yes_____ No_____

If yes, was treatment delayed
for recovery? Date of next
treatment?

Yes_____ No_____

Dose reduced for next
treatment?

Yes_____ No_____

Additional comments:

If module is being activated for new adverse event not currently in CTC,
please provide definitions for adverse event grading:
Grade 0 =
Grade 1 =
Grade 2 =
Grade 3 =
Grade 4 =

Infection module

Infection module
To be implemented at the request of the study sponsor or principal investigator in the protocol or by protocol amendment when more detailed information is considered pertinent.
1. Use the CTC definitions to grade the severity of the infection.
2. Specify type of infection from the following (CHOOSE ONE):
BACTERIAL FUNGAL PROTOZOAL VIRAL UNKNOWN
3. Specify site of infection from the following (CHOOSE ALL THAT
APPLY):
BLOOD CULTURE POSITIVE
BONE INFECTION
CATHETER (intravenous)
CATHETER (intravenous), tunnel infection
CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM INFECTION
EAR INFECTION
EYE INFECTION
GASTROINTESTINAL INFECTION
ORAL INFECTION
PNEUMONIA
SKIN INFECTION
UPPER RESPIRATORY INFECTION
URINARY TRACT INFECTION
VAGINAL INFECTION
INFECTION, not otherwise specified (specify site: __________)
4. Specify organism, if known: ______________________.
5. Prophylactic antibiotic, antifungal, or antiviral therapy administration
Yes _________ No _________
If prophylaxis was given prior to infection, please specify below:
Antibiotic prophylaxis ______________________________________
Antifungal prophylaxis ______________________________________
Antiviral prophylaxis _______________________________________
Other prophylaxis _________________________________________

841

Score

Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease
performance without restriction

Restricted in physically strenuous activity,
but ambulatory and able to carry out work
of a light or sedentary nature, e.g. light
housework, office work

0

1

Normal activity with effort;
some signs or symptoms
of disease
Cares for self, unable to
carry on normal activity or
do active work

70

Able to carry on normal
activity; minor signs or
symptoms of disease

Normal, no complaints, no
evidence of disease

Description

80

90

100

Karnofsky

Description

Score

70

80

90

100

Score

Lansky*

Both greater restriction of, and
less time spent in, play activity

Active, but tires more quickly

Minor restrictions in physically
strenuous activity

Fully active, normal

Description

Appendix 1

ECOG (Zubrod)

Karnofsky and Lansky performance scores are intended to be multiples of ten.

Performance status criteria

Performance status scales/scores

842

NCIC common toxicity criteria

Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any
self-care. Totally confined to bed or chair

4

Very sick, hospitalization
indicated. Death not
imminent
Moribund, fatal processes
progressing rapidly

10

Severely disabled,
hospitalization indicated.
Death not imminent

30

20

Disabled, requires special
care and assistance

Requires considerable
assistance and frequent
medical care

50

40

Requires occasional
assistance, but is able to
care for most of his/her
needs

60

ECOG, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group; RTOG, Radiation Therapy Oncology Group.

The conversion of the Lansky to ECOG scales is intended for National Cancer Institute (NCI) reporting purposes only.

Capable of only limited self-care, confined
to bed or chair >50% of waking hours

3

*

Ambulatory and capable of all self-care, but
unable to carry out any work activities. Up
and about >50% of waking hours

2

10

20

30

40

50

60

No play; does not get out of bed

Often sleeping; play entirely
limited to very passive activities

In bed; needs assistance, even for
quiet play

Mostly in bed; participates in
quiet activities

Gets dressed, but lies around
much of the day; no active play;
able to participate in all quiet play
and activities

Up and around, but minimal
active play; keeps busy with
quieter activities

Performance status scales/scores

843

Mild headache; slight
lethargy

No change
from
baseline

Asymptomatic
cataract; minor
corneal ulceration or
keratitis

No change
from
baseline

Brain—late RT
morbidity scoring

Asymptomatic; no
growth retardation;
reduced bone density

Eye—late RT
morbidity scoring

No change
from
baseline

Bone—late RT
morbidity scoring

Slight epithelial
atrophy/minor
telangiectasia
(microscopic
haematuria)

Mild fibrosis; slight
difficulty in swallowing
solids; no pain on
swallowing

No change
from
baseline

Bladder— late RT
morbidity scoring

1

Grade

Symptomatic cataract;
moderate corneal
ulceration; minor
retinopathy or glaucoma

Unable to take solid food
normally; swallowing
semi-solid food; dilation
may be indicated

Moderate headache; great
lethargy

Moderate pain or
tenderness; growth
retardation; irregular bone
sclerosis

Moderate frequency/
generalized telangiectasia/
intermittent macroscopic
haematuria

2

Severe keratitis; severe retinopathy
or detachment; severe glaucoma

Severe fibrosis; able to swallow
only liquids; may have pain on
swallowing; dilation required

Severe headaches; severe CNS
dysfunction (partial loss of power
or dyskinesia)

Severe pain or tenderness;
complete arrest of bone growth;
dense bone sclerosis

Severe frequency and dysuria/
severe generalized telangiectasia
(often with petechiae); frequent
haematuria; reduction in bladder
capacity (<150mL)

3

Panophthalmitis;
blindness

Necrosis/perforation;
fistula

Seizures or paralysis;
coma

Necrosis/
spontaneous fracture

Necrosis/contracted
bladder (capacity
<100mL/severe
haemorrhagic cystitis

4

Appendix 1

Oesophagus—late
No change
RT morbidity scoring from
baseline

0

Adverse event

Use for adverse event occurring >90 days after radiation therapy.

RTOG/EORTC late radiation morbidity scoring scheme

844

NCIC common toxicity criteria

No change
from
baseline

No change
from
baseline

Liver—late RT
morbidity scoring

Transient albuminuria;
no hypertension;
mild impairment
of renal function;
urea 25–35mg/dL;
creatinine 1.5–2.0
mg/dL; creatinine
clearance >75%

No change
from
baseline

Larynx—late RT
morbidity scoring

Mild joint stiffness;
slight limitation of
movement

No change
from
baseline

Joint—late RT
morbidity scoring

Mild lassitude; nausea;
dyspepsia; slightly
abnormal liver
function

Hoarseness; slight
arytenoid oedema

Asymptomatic or
mild symptoms;
transient T-wave
inversion and ST
changes; sinus
tachycardia >110
(at rest)

No change
from
baseline

Heart—late RT
morbidity scoring

1

0

Adverse event

Grade

Moderate symptoms;
some abnormal liver
function tests; serum
albumin normal

Moderate arytenoid
oedema; chondritis

Persistent moderate
albuminuria (2+); mild
hypertension; no related
anaemia; moderate
impairment of renal
function; urea >36–60mg/
dL; creatinine clearance
>50–74%

Moderate stiffness;
intermittent or moderate
joint pain; moderate
limitation of movement

Moderate angina on effort;
mild pericarditis; normal
heart size; persistent
abnormal T-wave and ST
changes; low QRS

2

Disabling hepatic insufficiency; LFTs
grossly abnormal; low albumin;
oedema or ascites

Severe oedema; severe chondritis

Severe albuminuria; severe
hypertension; persistent anaemia
(<10g/dL); severe renal failure;
urea >60mg/dL; creatinine >4mg/
dL; creatinine clearance <50%

Severe joint stiffness; pain with
severe limitation of movement

Severe angina; pericardial effusion;
constrictive pericarditis; moderate
heart failure; cardiac enlargement;
ECG abnormalities

3

(continued)

Necrosis/
hepatic coma or
encephalopathy

Necrosis

Malignant
hypertension; uraemic
coma/urea >100%

Necrosis/complete
fixation

Tamponade/
severe heart failure/
severe constrictive
pericarditis

4

RTOG/EORTC late radiation morbidity scoring scheme

845

No change
from
baseline

Small/large
intestine—late RT
morbidity scoring

Mild diarrhoea; mild
cramping; bowel
movement >5× daily;
slight rectal discharge
or bleeding

Slight atrophy;
pigmentation change;
some hair loss

No change
from
baseline

Slight atrophy and
dryness

Skin—late RT
morbidity scoring

No change
from
baseline

Mucous
membrane—late RT
morbidity scoring

Asymptomatic or
mild symptoms
(dry cough); slight
radiographic
appearances

Slight dryness
of mouth; good
response on
stimulation

No change
from
baseline

Lung—late RT
morbidity scoring

1

Grade

Moderate diarrhoea and
colic; bowel movement
>5× daily; excessive rectal
mucus or intermittent
bleeding

Patchy atrophy; moderate
telangiectasia; total hair
loss

Moderate dryness of
mouth; poor response on
stimulation

Moderate atrophy and
telangiectasia; little mucus

Moderate symptomatic
fibrosis or pneumonitis
(severe cough); low-grade
fever; patchy radiographic
appearances

2

Obstruction or bleeding, requiring
surgery

Marked atrophy; gross
telangiectasia

Complete dryness of mouth; no
response on stimulation

Marked atrophy with complete
dryness; severe telangiectasia

Severe symptomatic fibrosis or
pneumonitis; dense radiographic
changes

3

Necrosis/perforation
fistula

Ulceration

Fibrosis

Ulceration

Severe respiratory
insufficiency/
continuous O2/
assisted ventilation

4

Appendix 1

Salivary glands—late No change
RT morbidity scoring from
baseline

0

Adverse event

846

NCIC common toxicity criteria

No change
from
baseline

No change
from
baseline

Spinal cord—late RT
morbidity scoring

Subcutaneous
tissue—late RT
morbidity scoring

Radiation—Other
None
(specify, __________)

0

Adverse event

Mild

Slight induration
(fibrosis) and loss of
subcutaneous fat

Mild Lhermitte’s
syndrome

1

Grade

Moderate

Moderate fibrosis, but
asymptomatic; slight field
contracture; <10% linear
reduction

Severe Lhermitte’s
syndrome

2

4

Severe

Severe induration and loss
of subcutaneous tissue; field
contracture; >10% linear
measurement
Life-threatening or
disabling

Necrosis

Objective neurological findings at or Mono-, para-,
below cord level treatment
quadriplegia

3

RTOG/EORTC late radiation morbidity scoring scheme

847

≥75–<100% LLN

≥75–<100% LLN

Leucocytes (total WCC)
for paediatric BMT studies
(using age, race, and sex
normal values)

Lymphopenia for paediatric mm3
BMT studies (using age,
race, and sex normal values)

≥50–<75% LLN

≥50–<75% LLN

≥1000–<2000/mm3

≥2000–<3000/mm3

–

≥1.0–<2.0 × 109/L

WNL

Leucocytes (total WCC)
for BMT studies

>10–≤15mL/kg of
diarrhoea/day

>1000–≤1500mL of
diarrhoea/day

≥3–<6mg/100mL

2

≥2.0–<3.0 × 109/L

–

Absent

Hepatic enlargement

>500–≤1000mL of
diarrhoea/day

>5–≤10mL/kg of
diarrhoea/day

None

Diarrhoea associated with
GVHD for BMT studies

≥2–<3mg/100mL

1

Diarrhoea for paediatric
BMT studies

Normal

Bilirubin associated with
GVHD for BMT studies

0

Grade

≥25–<50% LLN

≥25–50% LLN

≥500–<1000/mm3

≥0.5–<1.0 × 109/L

Present

>15mL/kg of diarrhoea/
day

>1500mL of diarrhoea/
day

≥6–<15mg/100mL

3

<25% LLN

<25% LLN

<500/mm3

<0.5 × 109/L

–

–

Severe abdominal pain, with
or without ileus

≥15mg/100mL

4

Appendix 1

Adverse event

Summary of Bone marrow transplantation (BMT)—specific adverse events that may be used, if specified by the protocol. These differ from
the standard CTC and may be more relevant to the transplant setting. They are listed here for the convenience of investigators writing
transplant protocols. They are also included in the CTC document.

Bone marrow transplantation: specific adverse events

848

NCIC common toxicity criteria

None

None

Rash/dermatitis
associated with high-dose
chemotherapy or BMT
studies

Rash/desquamation
associated with GVHD for
BMT studies

Stomatitis/pharyngitis
None
(oral/pharyngeal mucositis)
for BMT studies

≥50.0–<75.0 × 10 /L ≥20.0–<50.0 × 10 /L

WNL

≥20 000–<50 000/mm
3

Painless ulcers,
erythema, or mild
soreness in the
absence of lesions

Macular or papular
eruption or erythema
covering <25% of
body surface area,
without associated
symptoms

Confluent moist
desquamation, ≥1.5cm in
diameter, not confined to
skinfolds; pitting oedema

Skin necrosis or ulceration
of full-thickness dermis;
may include spontaneous
bleeding not induced by
minor trauma or abrasion

<10 000/mm3

≥10 000–<20 000/mm
3

<100/mm3
<10.0 × 109/L

9

<0.1 × 109/L

4

≥10.0–<20.0 × 10 /L

≥100–<500/mm3

≥0.1–<0.5 × 109/L

3

Painful erythema, oedema,
or ulcers, but can swallow

(continued)

Painful erythema, oedema, Severe ulceration, requiring
or ulcers, preventing
prophylactic intubation or
swallowing or requiring
resulting in documented
hydration or parenteral (or aspiration pneumonia
enteral) nutritional support

Macular or papular eruption Symptomatic generalized Generalized exfoliative
or erythema, with pruritus or erythroderma or
dermatitis or ulcerative
other associated symptoms, symptomatic macular,
dermatitis or bullous
covering ≥25–<50% of body popular, or vesicular
formation
surface area or localized
eruption, with
desquamation or other
bullous formation, or
lesions covering ≥25–<50% desquamation covering
of body surface area
≥50% of body surface area

Faint erythema or dry Moderate to brisk
desquamation
erythema or a patchy moist
desquamation, mostly
confined to skinfolds and
creases; moderate oedema

≥50 000–<75 000/
mm3

9

Platelets for BMT studies

9

≥500–<1000/mm3

Grade

≥1000–<1500/mm3

2

≥0.5–<1.0 × 109/L

1

≥1.0–<1.5 × 109/L

WNL

0

Neutrophils/granulocytes
(ANC/AGC) for BMT
studies

Adverse event

BMT: SPECIFIC ADVERSE EVENTS

849

None

None

–

Transfusion: pRBCs for
BMT studies

Transfusion: pRBCs for
paediatric BMT studies

Thrombotic
microangiopathy (e.g. TTP
or HUS) for BMT studies

Grade

>15–≤30mL/kg in 24h,
elective or planned

3 units of pRBCs in 24h,
elective or planned

Two platelet transfusions
in 24h

2

≥2–<5%

≥5–<10%

Evidence of
Evidence of RBC
RBC destruction
destruction, with elevated
(schistocytosis) without creatinine (≤3 × ULN)
clinical consequences

≤15mL/kg in 24h,
elective or planned

≤2 units of pRBCs
in 24h, elective or
planned

One platelet
transfusion in 24h

1

≥10% or as ascites

Evidence of RBC
destruction, with
creatinine (>3 × ULN) not
requiring dialysis

>30mL/kg in 24h

≥4 units of pRBCs in 24h

≥3 platelet transfusions
In 24h

3

≥10% or fluid retention,
resulting in pulmonary failure

Evidence of RBC
destruction, with renal
failure, requiring dialysis,
and/or encephalopathy

Haemorrhage or
haemolysis associated with
life-threatening anaemia;
medical intervention required
to improve Hb

Haemorrhage or
haemolysis associated with
life-threatening anaemia;
medical intervention
required to improve Hb

Platelet transfusions and
other measures required to
improve platelet increment;
platelet transfusion
refractoriness associated
with life-threatening bleeding
(e.g. HLA or cross-matched
platelet transfusions)

4

Appendix 1

Weight gain associated
<2%
with VOD for BMT studies

None

0

Transfusion: platelets for
BMT studies

Adverse event

850

NCIC common toxicity criteria

0

1

2

Grade
3

4

Absent

Mild

Moderate

Severe

Life-threatening

Absent

Mild

Moderate

Severe

Life-threatening

(continued)

Also consider Fatigue, Rash/desquamation, Rash/desquamation associated with GVHD for BMT studies, if specified in the protocol, Diarrhoea for
patients without colostomy, Diarrhoea for patients with colostomy, Diarrhoea associated with GVHD for BMT studies, if specified in the protocol,
Diarrhoea for paediatric BMT studies, if specified in the protocol, Bilirubin, Bilirubin associated with GVHD for BMT studies, if specified in the protocol

GVHD

Also consider haemoglobin, neutrophils/granulocytes (ANC/AGC), neutrophils/granulocytes (ANC/AGC) for BMT studies, if specified in the protocol,
platelets, platelets for BMT studies, if specified in the protocol

Failure to engraft

Note: the grading of complex/multicomponent events in bone marrow transplant will be defined in the protocol. The grading scale must use the CTC
criteria for grading the specific component events (adverse events)

Adverse event

Bone marrow transplantation: complex/multicomponent events

BMT: COMPLEX/MULTICOMPONENT EVENTS

851

Absent

Stem cell infusion complications

Mild

1

Grade
Moderate

2
Severe

3
Life-threatening

4

Absent

Mild

Moderate

Severe

Life-threatening

Also consider Weight gain associated with VOD for BMT studies, if specified in the protocol, Bilirubin, Bilirubin associated with GVHD for BMT studies, if
specified in the protocol, Depressed level of consciousness, Hepatic pain, Renal failure, Hepatic enlargement

Appendix 1

VOD

Also consider Allergic reaction/hypersensitivity, Conduction abnormality/AV heart block, Nodal/Junctional arrhythmia/dysrhythmia, Prolonged
QTc interval (QTc >0.48s), Sinus bradycardia, Sinus tachycardia, Supraventricular arrhythmias (SVT/AF/atrial flutter), Vasovagal episode,
Ventricular arrhythmia (premature ventricular contractions (PVCs)/bigemini/trigemini/ventricular tachycardia), Cardiovascular/Arrhythmia—Other
(specify, –––––––––––), Hypertension, Hypotension, Fever (in the absence of neutropenia where neutropenia is defined as AGC <1.0 × 109/L), Rigors/chills,
Sweating (diaphoresis), Rash/desquamation, Rash/desquamation associated with GVHD for BMT studies, if specified in the protocol, Urticaria (hives,
welts, wheals), Diarrhoea for patients without colostomy, Diarrhoea for patients with colostomy, Diarrhoea associated with GVHD for BMT studies, if
specified in the protocol, Diarrhoea for paediatric BMT studies, if specified in the protocol, Nausea, Vomiting, Haemorrhage/bleeding with grade 3 or 4
thrombocytopenia, Haemorrhage/bleeding without grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia, Haemoptysis, Alkaline phosphatase, Bilirubin, Bilirubin associated
with GVHD for BMT studies, if specified in the protocol, GGT, serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT) (aspartate aminotransferase, AST),
serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase (SGPT) (alanine aminotransferase, ALT), Infection (documented clinically or microbiologically) with grade 3 or 4
neutropenia (ANC <1.0 × 109/L), Infection without neutropenia, Hyperkalaemia, Hypernatraemia, Hypokalaemia, Depressed level of consciousness,
Seizures, Abdominal pain, Headache, Creatinine, Haemoglobinuria

0

Adverse event

852

NCIC common toxicity criteria

Appendix 2

Nomogram for the
determination of body
surface area

853

854

Appendix 2

Nomogram for body surface area

Nomogram for determination of body surface from height and mass
Height
cm 200
195
190
185
180
175
170
165
160
155
150
145
140
135

79 in
78
77
76
75
74
73
72
71
70
69
68
67
66
65
64
63
62
61
60
59
58
57
56
55
54
53
52

130

51
50

125
120

110

105

100

220

2.00
1.95
1.90
1.85
1.80
1.75
1.70
1.65
1.60

95

210

90

200

2.50
2.40
2.30
2.20

85
80
75
70
65

1.45

60

1.40
1.35

190
180
170
160
150
140
130

55

120

50

110
105

45

100

1.30

47

1.15

95

1.10
40

1.05

43

1.00

42

0.95

41

150
145
140
135
130
125
120
115
110

1.55
1.50

1.20

40
cm 100

105

2.10

2.60

1.25

44

Mass
330 lb
320
310
300
290
280
270
260
250
240
230

48

45

kg

2.70

49

46
115

Body surface
2.80 m2

85
80
35

0.90
0.85

90

75
70

m2

kg

30

65 lb

39 in

Fig. A2.1 Nomogram for the determination of the body surface area.
Reproduced with permission from Lentner C, ed. Geigy Scientific Tables, 8th edn. Basel: Ciba Geigy
Ltd, 1981. BNF body surface area calculator can be accessed on M http://www.bnf.org/bnf/
extra/current/450018.htm.

Appendix 3

Performance status

855

856

Appendix 3

Performance status

Many decisions in the management of patients with malignancy depend
on the patients’ general well-being. Various scoring systems exist which
attempt to quantify this. The two most commonly used are the Karnofsky
and the ECOG systems (see Table A3.1).

Karnofsky score
The Karnofsky scoring system is detailed in E Performance status criteria,
p. 842.
Further reading
Doyle D, Hanks G, Cherny NI, Calman K (eds.) (2005). Oxford textbook of palliative medicine, 3rd
edn. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Karnofsky performance status scale definitions rating (%) criteria. Available at: M http://hospicepatients.
org/karnofsky.html.
Karnofsky DA, Burchenal JH (1949). The clinical evaluation of chemotherapeutic agents in cancer.
In: MacLeod CM, ed. Evaluation of chemotherapeutic agents. New York: Columbia University
Press, p. 196.

Table A3.1 ECOG score
0

Fully active. Able to carry on all pre-disease performance without
restriction

1

Restricted in physically strenuous activity, but ambulatory and able to carry
out work of a light or sedentary nature

2

Ambulatory and capable of all self-care, but unable to carry out any work
activities. Up and about for >50% of waking hours

3

Capable of only limited self-care. Confined to bed or chair for >50% of
waking hours

4

Completely disabled. Cannot carry out any self-care. Totally confined to
bed or chair

5

Death

ECOG score
Further reading
Onken MM, Creech RH, Tormey DC, et al. (1982). Toxicity and response criteria of the Eastern
Cooperative Oncology Group. Am J Clin Oncol 5, 649–55.
We credit the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group, Robert Comis MD, Group Chair.

Appendix 4

Support agencies’
addresses and websites

857

858

Appendix 4

Support agencies

M http://www.adjuvantonline.com—Adjuvant! Online: an American website aiming to provide a decision-making tool for doctors to assist in weighing up the relative risks and benefits of adjuvant treatment, depending on
certain patient and tumour variables. Currently, it has protocols for breast,
colon, and lung cancers.
M http://www.asco.org—American Society of Clinical Oncology.
M http://www.macmillan.org.uk/Home.aspx—Cancerbackup: up-todate cancer information (including information about treatments), practical advice, and support for cancer patients, their families, and carers.
Cancerbackup has now merged with Macmillan Cancer Support and
is an approved NHS information partner. Also provides links to useful
site-specific websites.
M http://www.cancerresearchuk.org—Cancer Research UK.
M http://www.cancerresearchuk.org/about-cancer—patient information
website: part of Cancer Research UK.
M http://www.eortc.be—the European Organisation for the Research
and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC).
M http://www.maggiescentres.org.uk—Maggie’s Cancer Caring Centres:
patient help with information, benefits, and travel advice for those affected
by cancer, and psychological support. Centres are in limited locations at
present, but more are planned, and online support groups are available.
M http://www.mariecurie.org.uk—Marie Curie Cancer Care: charitable
organization providing free nursing care to cancer patients and those with
terminal illnesses in their own homes.
M http://www.cancer.gov—National Cancer Institute: comprehensive
cancer information.
M http://ctep.cancer.gov/protocolDevelopment/electronic_applications/
ctc.htm—National Cancer Institute (NCI) CTC toxicity scale version 4.0
(updated May 2009).
M http://www.crn.nihr.ac.uk/cancer—the Clinical Research Network
(CRN) aims to provide the NHS with an infrastructure to support
high-quality cancer clinical studies.
M http://www.ncpc.org.uk—National Council for Palliative Care.
M http://www.nice.org.uk—National Institute for Health and Care
Excellence: national guidance on services, interventions, and management.
M http://www.rcr.ac.uk—Royal College of Radiologists home page.
M http://www.teenagecancertrust.org—Teenage Cancer Trust UK.
M http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/taxonomy/index.html?nscl=Cancer—Office
for National Statistics, Cancer.
M http://www.winstonswish.org.uk—Winston’s Wish: leading childhood
bereavement charity offering practical support and guidance to families,
professionals, and anyone concerned about a grieving child.

859

Index
A
abdominal pain/cramping,
CTC gradingâ•‡ 829
abirateroneâ•‡173
absolute granulocyte count
BMT specific adverse
eventsâ•‡849
CTC gradingâ•‡ 790
absolute neutrophil count
BMT specific adverse
eventsâ•‡849
CTC gradingâ•‡ 790
acanthosis nigricansâ•‡ 653
accelerated
chemotherapyâ•‡106
accelerated radiotherapyâ•‡ 57
aciclovirâ•‡90
acidosis, CTC gradingâ•‡ 818
Ackerman’s tumourâ•‡ 474
acoustic
neuromaâ•‡507–8, 514
actinomycin Dâ•‡86–7
actionable mutationâ•‡ 23
active
immunotherapyâ•‡179–93
acute leukaemiaâ•‡ 550–6
acute lymphoblastic
leukaemiaâ•‡550, 551–6
acute myeloid
leukaemiaâ•‡550, 553–6
acute oncologyâ•‡ 692
acute promyelocytic
leukaemiaâ•‡555–6
acute renal
failureâ•‡738–9, 740
acute vascular leak
syndrome, CTC
gradingâ•‡794
adeno-associated virus
vectorsâ•‡771
adenocarcinoma
anal canalâ•‡ 316
endometrialâ•‡450–2
pancreaticâ•‡358–63
renalâ•‡404
small intestineâ•‡ 330–5
adenosine analoguesâ•‡ 91–2
adenoviral vectorsâ•‡ 771
adjuvant analgesicsâ•‡ 123–5
adoptive
immunotherapyâ•‡194
adrenal cancerâ•‡ 396–9
adrenalectomyâ•‡172
adrenal failureâ•‡ 160
adrenogenital syndromeâ•‡ 397

adult advance life support
algorithmâ•‡ Inside front
cover
adult respiratory distress
syndrome (ARDS),
CTC gradingâ•‡ 832
adverse event moduleâ•‡ 840
aetiology of cancerâ•‡ 3–15
aflatoxinsâ•‡9
after-loadingâ•‡71
AIDS-related
malignanciesâ•‡655–69
air pollutionâ•‡ 15
airway obstructionâ•‡ 703–9
alanine aminotransferase,
CTC gradingâ•‡ 816
alcohol intakeâ•‡ 8–9, 470
alemtuzumabâ•‡570–1
alfentanilâ•‡121–2, 122
alkaline phosphatase,
CTC gradingâ•‡ 815
alkalosis, CTC gradingâ•‡ 819
alkylating agentsâ•‡ 85
allergic reaction, CTC
gradingâ•‡786
allergic rhinitis, CTC
gradingâ•‡786
allergy, CTC gradingâ•‡ 786
alopecia, CTC gradingâ•‡ 800
alveolar
rhabdomyosarcomaâ•‡626
amino-glutethimideâ•‡173
amitriptylineâ•‡123–4
ampullary carcinomaâ•‡ 368–9
amylase, CTC gradingâ•‡ 819
amyloidosisâ•‡594, 595–6
anaemia, haemolyticâ•‡ 652
anal cancerâ•‡ 311
adenocarcinomaâ•‡316
chemo-irradiationâ•‡109
HIV-relatedâ•‡668
malignant melanomaâ•‡ 316
squamous cell
carcinomaâ•‡314–15
anal fistula, CTC
gradingâ•‡809
analgesicsâ•‡117–25
anal intra-epithelial
neoplasiaâ•‡668
anaplastic astrocytomaâ•‡ 514
anastrozoleâ•‡173
angiogenesisâ•‡776
angular cheilitisâ•‡ 150
Ann Arbor stagingâ•‡ 575, 576
anorexiaâ•‡140–1
CTC gradingâ•‡ 805

anthracyclinesâ•‡86–7, 164
antibiotics,
anti-tumourâ•‡86–7
anticipatory nausea and
vomitingâ•‡131
anticonvulsantsâ•‡123–4
antidepressantsâ•‡123–4
anti-emeticsâ•‡129–30, 131
anti-folatesâ•‡88
anti-lymphocyte
globulinâ•‡565
anti-metabolitesâ•‡88–92
anti-microtubule
agentsâ•‡100, 101
anti-purinesâ•‡90
antiretroviral therapyâ•‡ 657
anti-sense DNA
oligonucleotidesâ•‡762
anti-tumour antibiotics
86–7
anxiety, CTC gradingâ•‡ 825
anxiolyticsâ•‡154–5
APCâ•‡5, 20–1
aphasia, CTC gradingâ•‡ 826
aphthous ulcersâ•‡ 151
apnoea, CTC gradingâ•‡ 832
apoptosisâ•‡105
appetite stimulantsâ•‡ 141
aprepitantâ•‡130
ara-C (syndrome)â•‡ 91
arachis oilâ•‡ 137
arachnoiditis, CTC
gradingâ•‡822
area postremaâ•‡ 126, 128
aromatase inhibitorsâ•‡ 173
arrhythmias, CTC
gradingâ•‡793
arterial operative injury,
CTC gradingâ•‡ 797
arterial thromboembolic
diseaseâ•‡714
arthralgia, CTC gradingâ•‡ 829
arthritis, CTC gradingâ•‡ 821
asbestosâ•‡15
ascites
CTC gradingâ•‡ 806
palliative surgeryâ•‡ 39
Askin tumourâ•‡ 612
aspartate aminotransferase,
CTC gradingâ•‡ 816
asthenia, CTC gradingâ•‡ 799
ataxia, CTC gradingâ•‡ 822
ataxia–telangiectasiaâ•‡5, 14
ATMâ•‡5
atrial fibrillation/flutter,
CTC gradingâ•‡ 793

860

INDEX
atrioventricular heart block,
CTC grading 792
attenuated FAP 28–9
auditory symptoms,
CTC grading 787
autoimmune haemolytic
anaemia 652
autoimmune
neutropenia 652
autoimmune reaction,
CTC grading 786
avascular necrosis,
CTC grading 822
Avastin® (bevacizumab) 189
axillary lymph node
metastases 636
axillary surgery 283–4
axon guidance pathway 22
azacytidine 564–5
azathioprine 90

B
bacillus Calmette–Guérin
(BCG) 190
bacterial infections
cancer link 13
mouth 151
bad news 113
Barrett’s
oesophagus 214–15
basal cell carcinoma 542,
543, 544
B-cell chronic lymphocytic
leukaemia 566–7
BCG 190
bcl-2 762
BCNU 85
Beckwith–Wiedemann
syndrome 412
behavioural changes, CTC
grading 826
benzene exposure 15
benzodiazepines 124, 143
β emitters 72
bevacizumab 189
bicalutamide 174
bicarbonate, CTC
grading 819
bilharzial bladder disease 13
biliary obstruction 726–9
biliary tract cancer 376–80
bilirubin
BMT specific adverse
events 848
CTC grading 815
biochemical crises 731–42
biological therapy 179–95
biological vectors 770, 771
biomarkers 773–80
biopsies 34–5
bisacodyl 137

Bismuth–Corlette
classification 378
bisphosphonates
adjuvant analgesia 124
bone metastases 294–5
hypercalcaemia 733
bladder
operative injury, CTC
grading 835
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 844
spasms, CTC grading
834
bladder cancer 418–23
aetiology 418
BCG therapy 190
chemo-irradiation 109
chemotherapy 422, 423
epidemiology 418
genetics 418
investigations 419
muscle-invasive 420
occupational risks 418
parasitic infection 13
pathology 418
presentation 419
prognosis 422
radical radiotherapy 421
radical surgery 420, 421
staging 419
superficial tumour
management 420
bleeding, CTC
grading 813–15
bleomycin 164–5
blood, CTC grading 788
Bloom’s syndrome 14
Blumgart classification 379
blurred vision, CTC
grading 828
body surface area
nomogram 854
bone
effects of chemotherapy
and radiotherapy 166
malignancies 604
metastases 43–4, 77–8,
294–5, 617, 639
pain, CTC grading 830
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 844
sarcoma reference
centres 604
scintigraphy 76–7
bone marrow, CTC
grading 788
bone marrow
suppression 686
bone marrow
transplantation

complex/multicomponent
events 851
specific adverse
events 848
botryoid
rhabdomyosarcoma 626
bowel cancer 28–9; see also
colorectal cancer
bowel obstruction 38,
128–9, 130, 132
brachial plexus block 124
brachytherapy 70–3, 432
BRAF 20, 23, 24
brain irradiation 168
prophylactic 249
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 844
side-effects 512
brain metastases 44,
518–20, 639
BRCA 1/2 5, 21, 27, 46,
214–15, 266–7
breaking bad news 113
breast cancer 261–97
adjuvant systemic
therapy 286–9
aetiology 264–5
alcohol intake 8–9
axillary surgery 283–4
biomarkers 774, 778
bisphosphonates 294–5
BRCA 1/2 5, 21, 27,
214–15, 266–7
chemoprevention 210–11, 267
combination chemotherapy 286–7, 292–4
combination hormone
therapy 174
diagnosis 278
ductal carcinomain
situ 270, 280–1
ductal carcinoma of special
type 271
early invasive cancer
management 282–4
endocrine
therapy 288, 292
epidemiology 264–5
family history 27, 267
gene expression
profiling 272
genetics 266–8
HER2-positive 271
interval cancers 276
invasive ductal
carcinoma 270–1
invasive lobular
carcinoma 271
investigations 278
lapatinib 294

INDEX
lobular carcinomain
situ 270, 280–1
locally advanced
disease 290
loco-regional
radiotherapy 285
males 265, 296
metastatic 292–5
micrometastases 284
neoadjuvant
therapy 288, 289
oestrogen
receptor-positive 270
pathology 270–6
presentation 278–9, 279
prognosis 297
prophylactic
surgery 214–15, 266
reconstructive surgery
283
risk factors 204, 264–5
screening 219,
266–7, 274–6
staging 279
tamoxifen 210–11,
267, 288
targeted therapy 294
trastuzumab 294
triple assessment 278
triple negative 271
breathlessness 142–3
CTC grading 833
Brigham staging 254
bruising, CTC grading 800
bulking agents 137
bullous lesions 653
Burkitt’s leukaemia 552, 590
Burkitt’s
lymphoma 13, 589–90
busulphan 85
bystander effect 764

C
CA125 446
cachexia 140–1, 654
caesium-137 72
Cairo–Bishop definition 741
camptothecin 98
cancer of unknown
primary,see malignancy
of unknown primary
cancer phenotype 19
capecitabine 90
carbamazepine 123–4
carbon monoxide diffusion capacity, CTC
grading 832
carboplatin 94–6
carcinoembryonic antigen
(CEA) 767
carcinoid syndrome 332

carcinosarcomas 452
cardiac disease 716–17
cardiac ischaemia/infarction,
CTC grading 794
cardiac troponin I and T,
CTC grading 795
cardiovascular system
CTC grading 792–7
effects of chemotherapy
and radiotherapy 164
carmustine 85
carotenoids 209
castration 172
cataract, CTC grading 827
catheter-related infection,
CTC grading 817
cauda equina syndrome 682
CB1954 764
CD4 count, CTC
grading 788
CEA 767
cell signalling 775, 777
central nervous system
haemorrhage/bleeding,
CTC grading 814
radiation effects 54, 512
central nervous system
tumours 495–520
aetiology 496, 497
AIDS-related 664–5
biomarkers 779
chemotherapy 513
craniospinal
irradiation 510–11
epidemiology 496
gene therapy 516
hereditary syndromes 497
investigations 502
multidisciplinary
management 504
palliative radiotherapy 510
pathology 496–500
presentation 500, 501
prognosis 514–15
radical radiotherapy 510
radiotherapy 510–12, 516
staging 502
stereotactic
radiotherapy 512
surgical
neuronavigation 516
treatment 504–13
WHO
classification 497, 498
central venous lines 744–5
cerebrovascular ischaemia,
CTC grading 822
cervical cancer 454–7
HIV-positive females 666
screening 220
cervical lymph node
metastases 636

cervical smear 220
cetuximab 189
Chang system
(modified) 508, 509
CHART regimen 57, 242
chemical carcinogens 15
chemo-endocrine
therapy 177
chemo-irradiation 108–9,
755
chemoprevention 204,
210–11, 212, 213, 267
chemotherapy 83–109
accelerated 106
agents 85–100
anti-emetic choice 131
combined with hormone
therapy 177
combined with radiotherapy (chemo-irradiation)
108–9, 755
dose intensification 106
drug resistance 104–5
extravasation 746
high-dose 106
late effects 157–68
neuropsychological
consequences 168
rationale for combination
therapy 84
secondary
malignancies 167
targeted 84
chest pain, CTC grading 830
childhood cancers presenting
in adults 671–6
Child–Pugh scoring
system 341
chills, CTC grading 799
chlorambucil 85
2-chlorodeoxyadenosine 92
cholangiocarcinoma 376–80
chondrosarcoma 616
chordoma 616–17
choriocarcinoma 462–4
chronic lymphoid
leukaemias 566–72
chronic myeloid leukaemia 183, 191, 558–60
circulating tumour cells
775
cisplatin 95–6
cladribine 92
classical multidrug
resistance 104
clinical trials 199–202,
210–11, 752
CNS,see central nervous
system headings
coagulation, CTC
grading 797–8
coagulopathy 652

861

862

INDEX
cobalt teletherapy 60
co-danthramer 137
co-danthrusate 137
codeine 118
coeliac plexus block 124
cognitive dysfunction 168
CTC grading 823
colitis, CTC grading 806
colorectal cancer 299–310
adjuvant
chemotherapy 304–5
biomarkers 779
chemotherapy
for advanced
disease 306–9
hereditary non-polyposis
28–9, 214–15
liver metastases 350–6
multistep
carcinogenesis 24
pauci-metastatic
disease 306–9
prophylactic
surgery 214–15
radiotherapy 310
recurrent 303
screening 220
single-nucleotide
polymorphisms 30
surgery 302–3
Common Toxicity Criteria
(CTC) 786–38
communication 112–13
conduction abnormality,
CTC grading 792
confirmed carcinoma of
unknown primary 630
conformal
radiotherapy 64, 754
confusion, CTC grading 823
conjunctivitis, CTC
grading 827
Conn’s syndrome 397
consciousness, CTC
grading 823
constipation 120, 136–7
CTC grading 806
constitutional
symptoms 654
CTC grading 799–800
cord compression 682
core biopsy 34–5
corneal inflammation/ulceration, CTC grading 828
corticosteroids, appetite
stimulation 141
cough 143–4
CTC grading 833
Courvoisier’s law 727
Cowden syndrome 20–1,
25, 214–15, 497
cranial irradiation 168

prophylactic 249
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 844
side-effects 512
cranial neuropathy, CTC
grading 825
craniopharyngioma 507, 514
craniospinal
irradiation 510–11
creatine phosphokinase,
CTC grading 819
creatinine, CTC grading 835
cupitch syndrome 146
curative surgery 36–7
Cushingoid appearance,
CTC grading 805
Cushing’s
syndrome 397, 648
cyclizine 129–30
cyclophosphamide 85
CYP17A1 173
cytarabine 91
cytokines 190–3
cytoreductive surgery 40
cytosine analogues 91
cytosine arabinoside 91

D
dactinomycin 87
dantron 137
dasatinib 559, 560
daunorubicin 86–7
deactivating enzyme 776
dehydration, CTC
grading 806
delusions, CTC grading 823
dendritic cell
vaccination 767–8
dentures 150
2’-deoxycoformycin 91–2
depressed consciousness,
CTC grading 823
depression, CTC
grading 825
dermatitis
BMT specific adverse
events 849
CTC grading 802, 803
exfoliative 653
dermatitis herpetiformis 653
dermatological
paraneoplastic
syndromes 653
dermatology, CTC
grading 800–4
dermatomyositis 651
desquamation
BMT specific adverse
events 849
CTC grading 803, 804

dexamethasone 123–4, 129–30
diamorphine 121–2
diaphoresis, CTC
grading 799
diarrhoea 138
BMT specific adverse
events 848
CTC grading 806–7
overflow 136
diclofenac 118
diet 9, 208–9, 470
diethylstilbesterol 15
diffuse large B-cell
non-Hodgkin’s
lymphoma 591–2
2,2-difluorodeoxycytidine
91
dihydrocodeine 118
dihydropyridine
dehydrogenase 776
diplopia, CTC grading 828
discharge from
follow-up 114
disseminated intravascular
coagulation 715
dizziness, CTC grading 823
DNA repair enzymes 776
DNA repair genes 4–5
DNA vaccines 767
docetaxel 102
docusate 137
domperidone 129–30
dorsal motor nucleus of the
vagus 126
double vision, CTC
grading 828
doxorubicin 86–7, 164
drip and suck 130
driver mutations 22
drug discovery 750–2
drug fever, CTC grading
786
drug-related haemolysis 789
drug resistance 104–5
dry eye, CTC grading 828
dry mouth 151–2
CTC grading 810
dry skin, CTC grading 801
ductal carcinoma in
situ 270, 280–1
ductal carcinoma of special
type 271
duodenal ulcer, CTC
grading 807
dye workers 15
dysgeusia, CTC grading 812
dysmenorrhoea, CTC
grading 830
dyspareunia, CTC
grading 830
dyspepsia, CTC grading 807

INDEX
dysphagia, CTC grading 808
dysphasia, CTC grading 826
dyspnoea, CTC grading 833
dysuria, CTC grading 835

E
ear, effects of chemotherapy
and radiotherapy 165
earache, CTC grading 830
ECOG score 842, 856
EGFR pathway
inhibitors 184–5
eicosapentanoic acid 141
electron beam
therapy 60, 68–9
embolism, CTC grading 797
embryonal
tumours 626, 674–5
embryo storage 163
encephalomyelopathies 650
endocarditis 716
endocrine cancers 381–401
endocrine
dysfunction 160–1
CTC grading 805
endocrine gland
ablation 172
endocrine paraneoplastic
syndromes 648–9
endocrine syndromes 397
endocrine therapy, see
hormone therapy
end of life 154–5
endometrial
adenocarcinoma 450–2
endoscopic retrograde
cholangiopancreatography 46, 727–8
endoscopic techniques 34–5
enteral feeding 141
environmental exposures 15, 205, 471
EORTC QLQ-C30 202
eosinophilia 652
EPA 141
ependymoma 505–6,
508, 514
epidemiology 3–15
epidural analgesia 124
epirubicin 86–7, 164
epistaxis, CTC grading 814
Epstein-Barr virus 13,
195, 470
ERBB2/3 20
Erbitux® 189
erectile impotence, CTC
grading 837
erlotinib 182, 184
erythema multiforme, CTC
grading 801
erythematous lesions 653

erythrocytosis 652
erythroplakia 474
erythropoietin 192, 563
estramustine phosphate 103
etoposide 99
euphoria, CTC grading 825
Ewing’s sarcoma 612–15
excisional biopsy 34–5
exemestane 173
exercise 10
exfoliative dermatitis 653
exposure 14–15
external auditory canal, CTC
grading 787
external beam
radiotherapy 60–7, 754
extra-nodal marginal zone
lymphoma 588
extrapyramidal symptoms,
CTC grading 824
extravasation 746
eye
cancer-associated
retinopathy 651
CTC grading 827–9
intraocular
tumours 492, 540
long-term effects of
chemotherapy and
radiotherapy 165
metastatic disease 492
retinoblastoma 5,
492, 674
retinopathy of hyperviscosity syndrome 595
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 844

fibrinogen, CTC grading 797
field effect 475
FIGO staging 455
fine needle aspiration 34–5
fistulas 38–9
CTC grading 808–9, 835
flashing lights, CTC
grading 829
flatulence, CTC grading
809
floaters, CTC grading 829
floxuridine 90
fludarabine 91
2-fluoro-2’-deoxyuridine 90
fluoropyrimidines 88
5-fluorouracil 89
5-fluorouracil
pro-drugs 89–90
flushing, CTC grading 801
flutamide 174
FOB test 220
folate 88, 208
folinic acid 90
follicular lymphoma 585–7
Fong score 42–3, 355
forced expiratory volume in
1s, CTC grading 833
formaldehyde 471
four-dimensional
radiotherapy 67
fractionated radiotherapy 50, 56–8, 755
fractionated stereotactic
radiotherapy 512
frozen embryos 163
fruit consumption 9, 208
fulvestrant 173
fungal mouth infections 151

F

G

faecal occult blood test
220
fainting, CTC grading 827
familial adenomatous
polyposis 5, 20–1,
28–9, 214–15
familial cancers 25
Fanconi’s syndrome,
CTC grading 836
fat consumption 9, 208
fatigue, CTC grading 799
febrile neutropenia,
CTC grading 817
feminization of male,
CTC grading 805
feminization syndrome 397
fentanyl 121–2
fertility 162–3
fever 654, 687
CTC grading 799
fibre, dietary 9, 208

G3139 762
gabapentin 123–4
gall bladder cancer 372–5
γ emitters 72
γ-knife 754
ganciclovir 90
gastric cancer 13,
214–15, 324–8
gastric irritation 131
gastric stasis 132
gastric ulcer, CTC
grading 809
gastrinoma 365
gastritis, CTC grading 809
gastrointestinal bleeding
CTC grading 815
palliative surgery 40
gastrointestinal obstruction 128–9, 132, 720–3
gastrointestinal stromal
tumours 183–4, 623–4

863

864

INDEX
gastrointestinal symptoms,
CTC grading 805–13
gastrointestinal tract, radiation effects 54
gefitinib 184
Gelclair® 151
gemcitabine 91
Genasense® 762
gender and cancer risk 6
Gendicine® 762
gene delivery 770, 771
gene-directed
enzyme pro-drug
system 764, 765
gene expression
profiling 272
gene therapy 516, 759–71
genetic predisposition 25
genetic pro-drug activation
therapy 764, 765
genetics of cancer 4–5,
17–30, 205; see also
specific cancers
genetic testing 26
genitourinary
cancers 403–43
genitourinary symptoms,
CTC grading 834–7
germ-cell tumours 506, 514
germinoma 506, 514
gestational trophoblastic
disease 460–4
glaucoma, CTC grading 828
Gleason score 424
glioblastoma 514
glioma 500, 501, 504–5,
508, 514
Glivec® 183–4
glucagonoma 365
glutathione 105
glycerine suppositories 137
glycopyrronium
155
gonadal dysfunction 162
gonadotrophin-releasing
hormone analogues 172
Gorlin syndrome 25, 497
graft versus host
disease 851
granisetron 129–30
granulocyte
colony-stimulating
factor 192–3, 563
granulocytes
BMT specific adverse
events 849
CTC grading 790
granulocytosis 652
Grawitz tumours 404
gray units 50
great vessel tumours 717
gynaecological cancer 445–64

gynaecomastia, CTC
grading 805

H
haematemesis, CTC
grading 814
haematochezia, CTC
grading 815
haematological
malignancies 549–600
haematological
paraneoplastic
syndromes 652
haematuria, CTC
grading 814
haemoglobin, CTC
grading 789
haemoglobinuria, CTC
grading 835
haemolysis, CTC
grading 789
haemolytic anaemia 652
haemolytic uraemic
syndrome, CTC
grading 798
haemoptysis, CTC
grading 814
haemorrhage, CTC
grading 813–15
hairy cell leukaemia 191
hallucinations, CTC
grading 824
haloperidol 129–30, 155
hand–foot skin reaction,
CTC grading 801
headache, CTC grading 830
head and neck
cancer 467–92
aetiology 470–1
alcohol intake 8–9, 470
anatomical sites 468, 469
chemo-irradiation 109,
485–6
early-stage disease 483–6
epidemiology 472
follow-up 488–9
genetics 471
investigations 478–9
locally advanced
unresectable
disease 485–6
management 482–7
metastatic disease 487
pathology 474–5
precancerous
lesions 471, 482
presentation 476–7
prevention 473
prognosis 488–9
rehabilitation 490–1
TNM staging 480

health-related quality of
life 202
hearing loss
CTC grading 787
following chemotherapy
and radiotherapy 165
heart
chemotherapy effects 164
marantic endocarditis 716
radiation effects 54, 164
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 845
tumours 717
heartburn, CTC grading
807
Helicobacter pylori 13, 324
heparin 712, 713
heparin-induced
thrombocytopenia 713
hepatic enlargement
BMT specific adverse
events 848
CTC grading 816
hepatic pain, CTC
grading 831
hepatic symptoms, CTC
grading 815–16
hepatitis B virus 12,
195, 336–7
hepatitis C virus 12, 336–7
hepatocellular
carcinoma 336
adjuvant therapy 348
aetiology 9, 12, 336–8
BCLC management
schema 345
epidemiology 336
investigation 339–41
liver transplantation 344–7
locally advanced
disease 348
metastatic disease 348
neoadjuvant therapy 348
pathology 337–9
presentation 338–41
radiofrequency
ablation 347–8
staging 341
surgical resection 344
hepatorenal syndrome 729
Her2/neu receptor 767
Her2/neu receptor
inhibitors 184–5
Herceptin® (trastuzumab) 164, 188, 294
hereditary diffuse gastric
cancer 214–15
hereditary
non-polyposis colon
cancer 28–9, 214–15
herpes virus vectors 771

INDEX
hiccup 134–5
CTC grading 833
high-dose
chemotherapy 106
high fibre diet 9, 208
HIV/AIDS-related
malignancies 655–69
hives, CTC grading 804
HMLH1 21
hoarseness, CTC grading 834
Hodgkin’s
lymphoma 574–80
aetiology 574
Ann Arbor
staging 575, 576
diagnosis 574
epidemiology 574
Epstein-Barr virus 13
HIV-related 668
management 577–80
nodular lymphocytepredominant 574
pathology 574
PET scanning 575
presentation 574
prognosis 575, 576
salvage therapy 579–80
WHO classification 575
hormone therapy 169–77
combined with
chemotherapy 177
duration 177
predictors of
response 175
resistance to 176
types of therapy 172–4
hot flashes/flushes, CTC
grading 805
human herpes virus
(HHV-8) 658
human papilloma virus
(HPV) 12, 195, 470
humoral hypercalcaemia of
malignancy 649
hydatidiform moles 460–2
hydromorphone 122
hydroxyurea 92
hyoscine butyl
bromide 124, 155
hyoscine hydrobromide
155
hyperaldosteronism,
primary 397
hypercalcaemia 649, 732–3
CTC grading 819
hypercholesterolaemia,
CTC grading 819
hyperfractionation 57
hyperglycaemia 737
CTC grading 819
hyperkalaemia 736, 740
CTC grading 819

hypermagnesaemia, CTC
grading 819
hypernatraemia, CTC
grading 819
hypernephroma 404
hyperphosphataemia 740
hypersensitivity, CTC
grading 786
hypertension, CTC
grading 795
hypertriglyceridaemia, CTC
grading 819
hypertrophic
osteoarthropathy 653
hyperuricaemia 740
CTC grading 820
hypoalbuminaemia, CTC
grading 816
hypocalcaemia 649, 740
CTC grading 820
hypoglycaemia 649, 737
CTC grading 820
hypokalaemia, CTC
grading 820
hypomagnesaemia 740
CTC grading 820
hyponatraemia 734–5
CTC grading 820
hypopharyngeal cancer 477
hypophosphataemia, CTC
grading 820
hypophysectomy 172
hypotension, CTC
grading 795
hypothyroidism, CTC
grading 805
hypoxanthine guanine
phosphoribosyl
transferase 90
hypoxia
CTC grading 833
radiotherapy 55
hypoxic cell sensitizers 755

I
ibuprofen 118
ICSI 163
idarubicin 86–7
idiopathic
thrombocytopenia 652
ifosfamide 85
ileus, CTC grading 809
image-guided
radiotherapy 66
imaging biomarkers 777
imatinib 183–4
imipramine 123–4
immune haemolytic anaemia,
CTC grading 789
immunology, CTC
grading 786

immunotherapy 190–4,
761, 766–8
impotence, CTC
grading 837
incisional biopsy 34–5
incontinence, CTC
grading 835
induced vulnerabilities 23
industrial exposure 15, 418
infection
cancer link 12–13, 470
central venous lines 744–5
CTC grading 817–18
infection module 841
infertility 162–3
CTC grading 838
information giving 112–13
inguinal lymph node
metastases 636–7
injection site reaction, CTC
grading 801
inner ear, CTC grading 787
insomnia, CTC grading 824
insulinoma 364–5
integrated care pathway 156
intensity-modulated
radiotherapy 66–7, 754
interferons 191, 408, 534
interleukin-2 191–2, 408
interval cancers 276
intestinal fistula, CTC
grading 809
intestinal obstruction 128–9,
132, 720–3
intracavitary therapy 78
intracranial pressure,
raised 128, 132, 700–2
intracranial tumours 497,
499, 500, 501
intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms 215
intraocular
tumours 492, 540
intraoperative
radiotherapy 74, 754
intrathecal analgesia 124
involuntary movements,
CTC grading 824
iodine-125 72
iodine-131 77, 390–1
ionizing radiation, cancer
link 14
Iressa® 184
iridium-192 72
irinotecan 98
irritability, CTC grading 824

J
jaundice,
obstructive 39, 726–9
joint pain, CTC grading 829

865

866

INDEX
joints, RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 845
junctional arrhythmias/
dysrhythmias, CTC
grading 793

K
Kaposi’s sarcoma 658–61
Karnofsky score 229, 842
keratitis, CTC grading 828
ketamine 124
kidney, radiation effects 54
Klatskin tumour 377
KRAS 24

L
laboratory results, CTC
grading 818–21
lactulose 137
Lambert–Eaton myasthenic
syndrome 651
L & H Hodgkin cells 574
Lansky score 842
laparoscopy 34–5, 36–7
lapatinib 182, 184–5, 294
large intestine, RTOG/
EORTC late radiation
morbidity scoring 846
laryngeal cancer 472,
476, 488
laryngectomy 490
laryngitis, CTC grading 834
larynx
CTC grading 834
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 845
laxatives 137
lead time bias 218
learning problems, CTC
grading 823
left ventricular function,
CTC grading 794
leiomyosarcomas 452
lenalidomide 564–5, 598
length bias 218
lentivirus vectors 771
leptomeningeal disease 639
lethargy, CTC grading 799
letrozole 173
leucocytes
BMT specific adverse
events 848
CTC grading 789
leucoencephalopathy,
CTC grading 824
leukaemia
acute lymphoblastic 550, 551–6

acute myeloid 550, 553–6
acute
promyelocytic 555–6
B-cell chronic
lymphocytic 566–7
Burkitt’s 552, 590
chronic lymphoid 566–72
chronic myeloid 183,
191, 558–60
hairy cell 191
leukoplakia 474
levomepromazine 129–30, 155
Lhermitte’s syndrome 54
libido, CTC grading 838
Li–Fraumeni
syndrome 20–1, 497
lightheadedness, CTC
grading 823
linear quadratic model 56
lipase, CTC grading 820
liver
capsular stretch 128, 132
CTC grading 816
metastases 42–3,
350–6, 638
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 846
transplantation 344–7
see also hepatocellular
carcinoma
lobular carcinomain
situ 270, 280–1
loperamide 138
lorazepam 129–30
loss of function 22
low molecular weight
heparin 712, 713
low-risk alleles 30
lung
metastases 43, 259, 638
radiation effects 54
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 846
lung cancer
aetiology 226
biomarkers 778
epidemiology 226, 227
genetics 228
HIV patients 669
investigations 229, 230
pathology 227
performance status 229
presentation 228
prevention 226
screening 220–1, 226
smoking link 8
see also non-small-cell
lung cancer; small-cell
lung cancer

luteinizing hormone-releasing
hormone (LHRH)
analogues 172
lymphatic clearance 42
lymphatics, CTC
grading 818
lymph node
dissection 532–3
metastases 636–7
lymphoblastic
lymphoma 590
lymphocyte-activated killer
(LAK) cells 194
lymphoedema 148–9
lymphoma
bone 617
Burkitt’s 13, 589–90
CNS 507, 514, 664–5
follicular 585–7
lymphoblastic 590
mantle cell 588–92
marginal zone 588
small bowel 330–5
see also Hodgkin’s lymphoma; non-Hodgkin’s
lymphomas
lymphopenia
BMT specific adverse
events 848
CTC grading 790
lymphorrhoea 149
Lynch syndrome
(HNPCC) 28–9, 214–15

M
MAGE-1 767
Makuuchi schema 342
malaise, CTC grading 799
malaria 13
malignancy of unknown
primary 629–43
aetiology 631
definition 630
epidemiology 631
management 634–5,
642, 643
pathology 632–3
prognosis 631
malignant
melanoma 526–39
adjuvant therapy 534–5
aetiology 526–7
anal canal 316
BCG therapy 190
benign pigmented
naevi 526–7, 527
epidemiology 526–7
genetics 526–7
interferon
therapy 191, 534
interleukin therapy 192

INDEX
investigation 529–30
loco-regionally advanced
disease 535
metastatic disease 536–9
pathology 530–1
post-operative
surveillance 533
presentation 528
prevention 528
prognosis 533
relapse risk 533
screening 528
staging 531
sun exposure 14, 526–7
surgery 532–3
warning signs 528
malignant pleural
mesothelioma 252–5
mammographic
screening 219, 274–6
Manchester A point 73
mantle cell
lymphoma 588–92
MAPK inhibitors 186
marantic endocarditis 716
marginal zone
lymphoma 588
masculinization of female,
CTC grading 805
MDR1 86
mediastinal lymph node
metastases 637
medulloblastoma 508, 509,
514, 674
megavoltage
radiotherapy 60, 61
megestrol acetate 141
melaena, CTC grading
815
melanoma
intraocular 540
mucosal 183, 541
see also malignant
melanoma
melphalan 85
memory loss, CTC
grading 825
meningioma 506, 508, 514
meningismus, CTC
grading 822
meningitis,
carcinomatous 518
menses, CTC grading 838
6-mercaptopurine 90
Merkel cell carcinoma 547
mesothelioma 252–5
metabolic acidosis, CTC
grading 818
metabolic alkalosis, CTC
grading 819
metabolic
dysfunction 160–1

CTC grading 818–21
metabolic syndrome 161
metastatic disease
bone 43–4, 77–8, 294–5,
617, 639
brain 44, 518–20, 639
eye 492
heart and great
vessels 717
liver 42–3, 350–6, 638
lung 43, 259, 638
lymph nodes 636–7
peritoneum 637
skin 542
surgery for 42–5
methadone 122
methotrexate 88
metoclopramide 129–30
MIBG therapy 77
micro-angiopathic haemolytic anaemia 652
microRNA (miRNA) 774–5
microsatellite
instability 28–9
midazolam 154–5
middle ear, CTC
grading 787
Mini-Mental Score 515
mismatch repair
genes 21, 28–9
mitomycin C 87
mitotane 398–9
mitoxantrone 87
modified Chang
system 508, 509
Mohs’ micrographic
surgery 545
molar pregnancy 460–2
monoclonal
antibodies 78, 188–9
monoclonal
B-lymphocytosis 568–72
monoclonal gammopathy
of uncertain significance
(MGUS) 594, 596–7
mood, CTC grading 825
morphine 118–22, 122
motion sickness 132
motor neuropathy, CTC
grading 825
mouthcare 150–2
Movicol® 137
MRP 86
mTOR inhibitors 185–6
mucosal melanoma 183, 541
mucositis 151
BMT specific adverse
events 849
CTC grading 810–13
mucous membrane, RTOG/
EORTC late radiation
morbidity scoring 846

multidisciplinary
approach 32, 112
multidrug resistance 104
multidrug
resistance-associated
protein 105
multileaf collimators 64
multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) type
II 214–15, 383
multiple myeloma,see
myeloma
multistep carcinogenesis 24
muscle pain, CTC
grading 831
muscle weakness, CTC
grading 821
musculoskeletal symptoms,
CTC grading 821–2
myalgia, CTC grading 831
MYC 20
myelodysplastic
syndromes 562–5
myeloma
(myelomatosis) 594–600
aetiology 594
bone resorption 595
clinical features 594–6
diagnosis 596–600
epidemiology 594
management 597–600
marrow infiltration 594
paraproteinaemia 595
pathology 594
prognosis 600
progressive disease 599
relapse 599
staging 600
MYH-associated
polyposis 28–9
myocarditis, CTC
grading 796
myositis, CTC grading 821

N
nail changes, CTC
grading 801
naphythylamine
exposure 15
naproxen 118
nasal cavity cancer 472,
477, 488
nasal stuffiness, CTC
grading 786
nasopharyngeal cancer 472,
476–7, 488
nausea
CTC grading 810
morphine-related 119–20
nausea and
vomiting 126–30, 721

867

868

INDEX
necrolytic migratory
erythema 653
nerve blocks 124
neural crest tumours, MIBG
therapy 77
neuroblastoma 400–1, 674–5
neuroconstipation, CTC
grading 809
neuroendocrine tumours
pancreas 364–7
small intestine 330–5
neurofibromatosis 25, 497
neurological paraneoplastic
syndromes 650–1
neurological symptoms
CTC grading 822–7
following chemotherapy
and radiotherapy 165
neuropathic pain 117
CTC grading 831
neuropathy, CTC
grading 825–6
neuropsychological
consequences of
cancer treatment 168
neutropenia 686, 687
CTC grading 817–18
neutrophils
BMT specific adverse
events 849
CTC grading 790
night blindness, CTC
grading 829
nilotinib 559, 560
nitroreductase 764
NMDA receptor
antagonists 124
nodal arrhythmias/
dysrhythmias, CTC
grading 793
nodal marginal-zone
lymphoma 588
nodular
lymphocyte-predominant
Hodgkin’s
lymphoma 574
non-coding RNAs 774–5
non-Hodgkin’s
lymphomas 582–92
aetiology 582
AIDS-related 662–3
classification 582, 583
definition 582
high grade 584, 589–92
low grade 584, 585–92
presentation 584–5
staging 584–9
non-melanoma skin
cancer 542–6
non-opioid analgesics 118

non-receptor tyrosine
kinases 182–3
non-small-cell lung cancer
adjuvant
chemotherapy 236, 241
biomarkers 778
chemo-irradiation 109,
240, 243
chemotherapy 238–41
erlotinib therapy 184
gefitinib therapy 184
investigations 232
mediastinal node
biopsy 232
multidisciplinary
teams 232
palliative radiotherapy 244
PET scanning 232
post-operative
radiotherapy 244
radiotherapy 242–4
staging 232, 233
surgery 234–6, 240–1
non-steroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs
(NSAIDs) 118
novel therapies 749–58
nucleus of the tractus
solitarius 126
nyctalopia, CTC grading 829
nystagmus, CTC
grading 826

O
obesity 9
oblimersen 762
obstruction
biliary 726–9
bowel 38, 128–9, 130, 132
intestinal 128–9,
132, 720–3
superior vena cava 696–9
urinary tract 724–5
obstructive
jaundice 39, 726–9
occupational risks 15, 418
ocular symptoms, CTC grading 827–9; see also eye
odynophagia, CTC
grading 808
oedema, CTC grading 795
oesophageal cancer 8–9,
109, 318–23
oesophageal fistula, CTC
grading 808
oesophagitis, CTC
grading 808
oesophagus, RTOG/EORTC
late radiation morbidity
scoring 844

onapristone 174
oncogenes 4, 20, 762
ondansetron 129–30
oocyte storage 163
oophoropexy 163
opioids 118–22, 124, 125,
143, 154–5
oral cavity cancer 472,
476, 488
oral hygiene 150–2
oral morphine
equivalences 122
oral mucosa, radiation
effects 54
oral mucositis 151
BMT specific adverse
events 849
CTC grading 811–12
oropharyngeal cancer 8–9,
472, 477, 488
osmotic laxatives 137
osteolysis 732
osteonecrosis, CTC
grading 822
osteosarcoma 606–10
otalgia, CTC grading 830
ovarian cancer 215, 446–9
ovarian suppression 163
ovarian tissue storage 163
overflow diarrhoea 136
oxaliplatin 96, 165
oxycodone 122
oxygen therapy 143

P
p53 4, 21, 762, 767
P-170 glycoprotein 104
packed red blood cells
BMT specific adverse
events 850
CTC grading 791
paclitaxel 102
Paget’s disease of the
breast 271, 283
pain 116–25
adjuvant analgesics 123–5
anaesthetic
techniques 124
categories of cancer
pain 116–24
CTC grading 829–32
non-opioid analgesics
118
opioid analgesics 118–22,
124, 125
perception of pain 117
pharmacological
management 117–25
radiotherapy for 125
supportive care 125

INDEX
surgical management 39–40, 124–5
WHO analgesic
ladder 117
palifermin 151
palliative care
radiotherapy 58, 125
surgery 38–40, 124–5
symptom control 111–56
palpitations, CTC
grading 793
pamidronate 124
pancreatic cancer
ductal adenocarcinoma 358–63
neuroendocrine
tumours 364–7
pancreatitis, CTC
grading 810
pancytopenia 686
paracetamol 118
paranasal sinuses cancer 472, 477, 488
paraneoplastic cerebellar
degeneration 650
paraneoplastic
syndromes 645–54
dermatological 653
endocrine 648–9
haematological 652
neurological 650–1
paraproteinaemia 594, 595
parasitic infections 13
parenteral feeding 141
Paris system 72–3
parotid gland tumour 475
partial thromboplastin time,
CTC grading 798
passenger mutations 22
passive smoking 8
pelvic pain, CTC
grading 831
pemetrexed 90
pemphigus 653
penile cancer 442–3
pentostatin 91–2
peptide vaccines 766–7
percutaneous
nephrostomy 724–5
performance status 229,
842, 856
pericardial effusion 45, 716
CTC grading 796
pericarditis, CTC
grading 796
peripheral arterial ischaemia,
CTC grading 796
peripheral blood
progenitors 106
peripheral nerve blocks
124
peripheral neuropathy 650

peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumour 612
perirectal pain, CTC
grading 832
peritoneal
carcinomatosis 637
peritoneal metastases 637
peritoneal washing
cytology 35
personality changes, CTC
grading 826
petechiae, CTC grading 815
PET scan 76
phaeochromocytoma 396–7
pharmacological
biomarkers 776–7
pharmacological
exposure 15
pharyngeal cancer 472,
476–7, 488
pharyngeal fistula, CTC
grading 809
pharyngeal
irritation 128, 132
pharyngeal mucositis
BMT specific adverse
events 849
CTC grading 811–12
pharyngitis
BMT specific adverse
events 849
CTC grading 811–12
phase I/II/III studies 200–1,
210–11, 752
phlebitis, CTC grading 796
photophobia, CTC
grading 829
photosensitivity, CTC
grading 801
physical inactivity 10
pigmentation changes 653
CTC grading 801
pilocarpine
hydrochloride 152
pineal tumours 506
pineocytoma 514
pituitary dysfunction 160
pituitary tumours 500,
507, 514
placental-site trophoblastic
tumour 464
plasma cell dyscrasias 594
plasmacytoma 594, 595–6,
597, 612
platelet disorders 652
platelets
BMT specific adverse
events 849, 850
CTC grading 790
pleomorphic
rhabdomyosarcoma 626
pleural effusion 44, 640

CTC grading 833
pleuritic pain, CTC
grading 832
pneumonitis, CTC
grading 834
pneumothorax, CTC
grading 834
POEMS syndrome 596
poloxamer 137
polymyositis 651
popcorn cells 574
population screening,see
screening
porcelain gall bladder 215
portal vein flow, CTC
grading 816
positron emission tomography (PET) 76
postnasal drip, CTC
grading 786
preclinical drug
development 751
precocious puberty
syndrome 397
predictive genetic testing 26
prednisolone 123–4
pregabalin 123–4
premature ventricular
contractions, CTC
grading 794
prevention of
cancer 203–15
process of treatment 168
proctalgia, CTC grading 832
proctitis, CTC grading 811
progestogens 141
prolonged QTc interval,
CTC grading 793
prophylactic surgery 46,
214–15, 266
prostate cancer 424–33
active surveillance 432–3
aetiology 424
androgen
blockade 428–9, 432
brachytherapy 432
castration-resistant metastatic disease 429
chemotherapy 430
epidemiology 424
external beam
radiotherapy 431–2
genetic factors 424
Gleason score 424
hormone therapy 174,
428–9, 432
investigations 426–7
medical castration 428
metastatic disease 428–33
organ-confined
disease 430–3
pathology 424

869

870

INDEX
prostate cancer (Contd.)
presentation 427
prognosis 433
prostate-specific antigen
(PSA) 425–6
PSA failure 433
radical prostatectomy 431
radical radiotherapy
431–2
radiotherapy 429–33
risk stratification 430–1
screening 220–1, 425–6
staging 426
surgical castration 428
proteinuria, CTC
grading 835
prothrombin time, CTC
grading 798
proto-oncogenes 4, 762
provisional carcinoma of
unknown primary 630
pruritus 146–7, 653
CTC grading 802
PSA screening 425–6
pseudohyponatraemia 734
psychiatric interventions 153
psychological distress 153
psychological therapies 153
PTEN 20–1
pulmonary fibrosis, CTC
grading 834
pulmonary infiltrates, CTC
grading 834
pulmonary
metastasectomy 259
pulmonary symptoms
CTC grading 832–4
following chemotherapy and
radiotherapy 164–5
purine analogues 90
purpura, CTC grading 815
pyramidal tract dysfunction,
CTC grading 826
pyrexia of unknown
origin 654

Q
quality of life 202

R
radiation dermatitis, CTC
grading 802
radiation-induced pain, CTC
grading 831
radiation mucositis, CTC
grading 810
radiation nephropathy 54
radiation oncology, see
radiotherapy

radiation pneumonitis 54
radiation recall reaction,
CTC grading 802
radiation-related cancer 14
radiation sensitivity 14
radical radiotherapy 58
radiculitis, CTC grading 822
radioiodine treatment 72,
77, 390–1
radiolabelled tracers 76
radionuclides 72, 76–8,
756, 757
radiosensitivity
syndromes 14
radiosensitization 755
radiotherapy 49–82
accelerated 57
acute effects 52–3
brachytherapy 70–3, 432
cobalt teletherapy 60
combined modalities 758
combined with chemotherapy (chemo-irradiation)
108–9, 755
conformal 64, 754
CT planning 64, 65
DNA repair 55
dose units 50
effects on normal
tissue 52–5, 57
electron beam
therapy 60, 68–9
external beam 60–7, 754
four-dimensional 67
fractionation 50,
56–8, 755
γ-knife 754
historical perspective 50
hyperfractionation 57
image-guided 66
intensity-modulated
66–7, 754
intraoperative 74, 754
late effects 53, 157–68
megavoltage 60, 61
multileaf collimators 64
neuropsychological
consequences 168
novel approaches 754–8
palliative 58, 125
radical 58
radiosensitivity of
tumours 57
radiosensitization 755
retreatment 55
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 844
secondary
malignancies 55, 167
stereotactic 67, 512
superficial 60

targeted 77, 754, 756,
757, 758
tolerance doses 57
total body irradiation 80–2
unsealed radionuclides 76
radium 72
raised intracranial pressure 128, 132, 700–2
raltitrexed 88
Ras 4, 20
rash
BMT specific adverse
events 849
CTC grading 803, 804
raspberry mucilage 151
RB1 5
receptor tyrosine
kinases 182–3
rectal bleeding, CTC
grading 815
rectal cancer
adjuvant
chemotherapy 304
chemo-irradiation 109
surgery 302
rectal fistula, CTC
grading 809
rectal pain, CTC
grading 832
red cell aplasia 652
red cell disorders 652
red cell transfusion 689
red meat 9
renal cancer 404–11
adjuvant therapy 407
aetiology 404
biological therapy 408–10
chemotherapy 407
combined therapy 408–10
controversies in
treatment 411
endocrine therapy 407
epidemiology 404
genetics 404
investigations 405
palliative radiotherapy 407
pathology 404
presentation 406
prognosis 410
spontaneous
remission 407
staging 405
surgery 406–7
renal cell carcinoma
biomarkers 779
interferon therapy 191
interleukin therapy 191–2
pathology 404
targeted therapy 409–10
renal failure,
acute 738–9, 740
renal pelvis cancer 423

INDEX
renal symptoms
CTC grading 834–7
following chemotherapy
and radiotherapy 165
renal tubular acidosis,
CTC grading 836
reproductive function,
CTC grading 837–8
respiratory acidosis,
CTC grading 818
respiratory alkalosis,
CTC grading 819
respiratory
symptoms 142–4
respiratory tract secretions
155
restlessness, CTC
grading 824
RET 20
retinoblastoma 5, 492, 674
retinopathy
cancer-associated 651
hyperviscosity
syndrome 595
retroperitoneal lymph node
metastases 637
retroviral vectors 771
Revlimid® (lenalidomide) 564–5, 598
rhabdomyosarcoma 626–8, 676
rigors, CTC grading 799
Robson staging 405
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 844
RU-486 174
rubber workers 15

S
saliva replacements/
stimulants 152
salivary gland
cancer 472, 475, 477,
489
CTC grading 811
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 846
salt fish 9
sarcoma
bone sarcoma reference
centres 604
chondrosarcoma 616
Ewing’s 612–15
Kaposi’s 658–61
osteosarcoma 606–10
rhabdomyosarcoma
626–8, 676
soft-tissue 620–4, 676
uterine 452

Schistosomiasis
haematobium 13
schwannomas 507–8, 508
scintigraphic methods 76
screening 217–21
breast cancer 219,
266–7, 274–6
cervical cancer 220
colorectal cancer 220
lung cancer 220–1, 226
malignant melanoma 528
prostate
cancer 220–1, 425–6
thyroid cancer 383–4
secondary malignancy
chemotherapy-related 167
CTC grading 837
radiotherapy-related
55, 167
second hits 24
seizures, CTC grading 826
selection bias 218
senna 137
sensory neuropathy 165
CTC grading 826
sentinel node
biopsy 284, 532–3
sentinel node dissection 42
serum glutamic oxaloacetic
transaminase, CTC
grading 816
serum glutamic pyruvic
transaminase, CTC
grading 816
serum sickness, CTC
grading 787
sexual function, CTC
grading 837–8
shortness of breath 142–3
CTC grading 833
single-nucleotide
polymorphisms 30
single-photon emission computerized tomography
(SPECT) 76
singultus, CTC grading 833
sinus bradycardia,
CTC grading 793
sinus tachycardia,
CTC grading 793
skin
cancers 14, 523–47
CTC grading 800–4
paraneoplastic
syndromes 653
radiation effects 53–4
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 846
skull base tumours 500
small-cell lung cancer 245
chemotherapy 246–7

palliative radiotherapy 249
prognosis 245
prophylactic cranial
irradiation 249
radiotherapy 248–9
staging 245
surgery 250
small intestine
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 846
tumours 330–5
small-molecule
inhibitors 182–6
smell disturbances,
CTC grading 811
smoking 8, 206, 470
smooth muscle
relaxants 124
sneezing, CTC grading 786
sodium picosulfate 137
sodium valproate 123–4
soft-tissue
sarcomas 620–4, 676
solar exposure 14, 526–7
solitary extramedullary
plasmacytoma 597
solitary plasmacytoma 594,
595–6, 597, 612
somatic correction of gene
defects 762
somatic pain 116–17
somatostatinoma 366
sorafenib 185
SPECT 76
speech
CTC grading 826
post-laryngectomy 490
sperm retrieval 162–3
spinal cord
compression 682–4
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 847
tumours 497, 499,
500, 508
spinal irradiation,
side-effects 512
spinal opioids 124
spindle poisons 100, 101
splenic marginal zone
lymphoma 588
squamous cell carcinoma
anal 314–15
head and neck 474
skin 542, 543, 544, 546
squashed stomach 128–9
SRC 20
stem cell transplantation
555, 560, 564, 571, 587
stereotactic
radiotherapy 67, 512

871

872

INDEX
sterility, CTC grading 837
steroid hormone
antagonists 173–4
steroids 123–4
Stevens–Johnson syndrome,
CTC grading 801
Stewart classification 319
stimulant laxatives 137
stomach, squashed 128–9
stomatitis
BMT specific adverse
events 849
CTC grading 811–12
stool softeners 137
stridor 705
CTC grading 834
stromal sarcomas 452
strong opioids 118–22
subcutaneous tissue,
RTOG/EORTC late
radiation morbidity
scoring 847
sun exposure 14, 526–7
sunitinib 182, 185
superficial X-ray therapy 60
superior vena cava
obstruction 696–9
support 153
support agencies 857–8
supportive care 125
supraventricular tachycardia,
CTC grading 793
surgery 31–46
curative 36–7
diagnosis and staging 34–5
metastatic disease 42–5
palliative 38–40, 124–5
principles 33
prophylactic 46,
214–15, 266
surgical neuronavigation 516
sweating, CTC grading 799
symptom control 111–56
syncope, CTC grading 827
syndrome of inappropriate
ADH 648, 734
CTC grading 805
synthetic lethality 23
syphilis 470

T
tamoxifen 173–4, 210–11,
267, 288
Tarceva® (erlotinib) 182, 184
targeted chemotherapy 84
targeted radiotherapy 77,
754, 756, 757, 758
targeted therapy 179–95
taste disturbances 152
CTC grading 812
tearing, CTC grading 828

tegafur with uracil 89
temosirolimus 185–6
temozolomide 85
teniposide 99
terminal phase 154–5
testes, undescended 215
testicular cancer 434–41
aetiology 434
carcinoma in situ 438
epidemiology 434
follow-up 441
genetics 434
investigations 436
management 438–41
non-germ cell
tumours 441
non-seminomatous
germ cell
tumours 434, 439–41
pathology 434–5
presentation 435–6
prognostic
grouping 436, 441
seminomas 434,
438, 439–41
sperm storage 436
staging 436
tumour markers 435, 774
textile workers 15
thalidomide 597
therapeutic drug
monitoring 776
6-thioguanine 90
thiopurine
methyltransferase 776
thoracic
malignancies 225–59
thrombocytopenia 652, 688
heparin-induced 713
thrombocytosis 652
thromboembolic
disease 712–14
thrombosis
central venous lines 745
CTC grading 797
thrombotic microangiopathy
BMT specific adverse
events 850
CTC grading 798
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, CTC
grading 798
thymic tumours 256–8
thymidylate synthase
inhibitors 88
thymomas 256–8
thyroid cancer 382–95
aetiology 382
anaplastic (undifferentiated) 382, 383, 384,
386, 389, 392, 395
chemotherapy 394

differentiated (papillary
including follicular)
382–3, 384, 385,
387–8, 392, 395
epidemiology 382
external beam
radiotherapy 392
follow-up 395
genetics 382–4
investigations 385
medullary 382, 383–4,
386, 389, 392, 395
MEN type 2 214–15, 383
metastatic disease 388
pathology 382–4
presentation 384
prognosis 395
radioiodine
treatment 77, 390–1
recurrent 388
screening and prevention 214–15, 383–4
small molecule kinase
inhibitors 393
staging 385–6
surgery 387–9
surveillance 395
targeted therapies 393
thyroid dysfunction
following radiotherapy
and chemotherapy 160
thyroid scintigraphy 77
tobacco 8, 206, 470
Tomudex® 88
topoisomerase
inhibitors 98–9
topotecan 98
total body irradiation 80–2
total white cell count
BMT specific adverse
events 848
CTC grading 789
toxic epidermal necrolysis,
CTC grading 801
TP53 20–1
tramadol 118
transfusion
BMT specific adverse
events 850
CTC grading 791
transitional cell carcinoma
renal 404, 410
ureteric 423
trastuzumab
(Herceptin®) 164,
188, 294
tremor, CTC grading 827
tricyclic
antidepressants 123–4
trophoblastic
tumours 460–4
tuberous sclerosis 497

INDEX
tubulin-interactive
agents 100, 101
tumour-blocking agents 212
tumour flare, CTC
grading 839
tumour-infiltrating
lymphocytes 194
tumour lysis
syndrome 740–2
CTC grading 839
tumour necrosis factor 192
tumour pain, CTC
grading 832
tumour seeding 34–5
tumour spread 33
tumour-suppressing
agents 212, 213
tumour suppressor genes 4,
20–1, 762
Turcot’s syndrome 497
typhlitis, CTC grading 812
tyrosine kinase
inhibitors 182–4
Tyverb® (lapatinib) 182,
184–5, 294

U
Uftoral® 89
ulcerative colitis 214–15
uncertainty 114
undescended testes 215
unsealed radionuclides 76
upper gastrointestinal
cancer 317–80
ureter
decompression 724–5
obstruction, CTC
grading 836
operative injury, CTC
grading 835
transitional cell
carcinoma 423
urgency, CTC grading 836
uridine diphosphate
glucuronyltransferase
776
urinary electrolyte wasting,
CTC grading 836
urinary frequency/urgency,
CTC grading 836
urinary retention,
CTC grading 836
urinary tract
obstruction 724–5

urine colour changes,
CTC grading 836
urokinase 713
urticaria, CTC
grading 787, 804
uterine corpus
cancer 450–3

V
vaccines 195, 761, 766–8
vaginal bleeding, CTC
grading 815
vaginal cancer 458
vaginal dryness, CTC
grading 838
vaginal fistula, CTC
grading 835
vaginitis, CTC grading 837
vasculitis, CTC grading 787
vasovagal episode, CTC
grading 793
vectors 770, 771
vegetable
consumption 9, 208
VEGF pathway
inhibitors 185
vein, operative injury, CTC
grading 796
vemurafenib 186
vena cava filter 713
venous thromboembolism 712–13
ventilation–perfusion
mismatch 142
venting gastrostomy 130
ventricular arrhythmia, CTC
grading 794
Verner–Morrison
syndrome 365–6
vertigo, CTC grading 827
vesicovaginal fistula, CTC
grading 835
vestibular
schwannoma 507–8
vinblastine 101
vincristine 101
vindesine 101
vinorelbine 101
VIPoma 365–6
virally-induced
tumours 12–13,
195, 470
viral mouth infections 151
viral vectors 770, 771

virilization syndrome 397
virus-directed enzyme
pro-drug therapy
764, 765
visceral arterial ischaemia,
CTC grading 797
visceral pain 116–17
visual symptoms, CTC
grading 827–9
vitiligo 653
CTC grading 801
voice, CTC grading 834
vomiting, CTC grading
812; see also nausea
and vomiting
vomiting centre 126, 128
von Hippel–Lindau
syndrome 404, 497
vulval cancer 459

W
WAGR syndrome 412
warfarin 712, 713, 745
watery diarrhoea and
hypokalaemia
achlorhydria (WDHA)
syndrome 365–6
watery eyes, CTC
grading 828
weak opioids 118
weight changes
BMT specific adverse
events 850
CTC grading 800
welts, CTC grading 804
wheals, CTC grading 804
white cell count
BMT specific adverse
events 848
CTC grading 789
white cell disorders 652
WHO analgesic ladder
117
whole tumour cell
preparations 766
Wilms’ tumour 412–16
in adults 675
wood dust 471
wounds, CTC grading 804

Z
zoledronic acid 124
Zubrod scale 229, 842

873

