1

The Cancer Genome

Yardena Samuels, Alberto Bardelli, Jared J. Gartner, and Carlos López-Otin

INTRODUCTION

IDENTIFICATION OF CANCER GENES

There is a broad consensus that cancer is, in essence, a genetic disease, and that accumulation of molecular alterations in the genome
of somatic cells is the basis of cancer progression (Fig. 1.1).1 In
the past 10 years, the availability of the human genome sequence
and progress in DNA sequencing technologies has dramatically
improved knowledge of this disease. These new insights are transforming the field of oncology at multiple levels:

The completion of the Human Genome Project marked a new
era in biomedical sciences.3 Knowledge of the sequence and
organization of the human genome now allows for the systematic
analysis of the genetic alterations underlying the origin and evolution of tumors. Before elucidation of the human genome, several
cancer genes, such as KRAS, TP53, and APC, were successfully
discovered using approaches based on an oncovirus analysis, linkage studies, LOH, and cytogenetics.4,5 The first curated version of
the Human Genome Project was released in 2004,3 and provided a
sequence-based map of the normal human genome. This information, together with the construction of the HapMap, which contains single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), and the underlying
genomic structure of natural human genomic variation,6,7 allowed
an extraordinary throughput in cataloging somatic mutations
in cancer. These projects now offer an unprecedented opportunity: the identification of all the genetic changes associated with
a human cancer. For the first time, this ambitious goal is within
reach of the scientific community. Already, a number of studies
have demonstrated the usefulness of strategies aimed at the systematic identification of somatic mutations associated with cancer
progression. Notably, the Human Genome Project, the HapMap
project, as well as the candidate and family gene approaches (described in the following paragraphs), utilized capillary-based DNA
sequencing (first-generation sequencing, also known as Sanger sequencing).8 Figure 1.2 clearly illustrates the developments in the
search of cancer genes, its increased pace, as well as the most relevant findings in this field.

1. The genomic maps are redesigning the tumor taxonomy by
moving it from a histologic- to a genetic-based level.
2. The success of cancer drugs designed to target the molecular
alterations underlying tumorigenesis has proven that somatic
genetic alterations are legitimate targets for therapy.
3. Tumor genotyping is helping clinicians individualize treatments by matching patients with the best treatment for their
tumors.
4. Tumor-specific DNA alterations represent highly sensitive biomarkers for disease detection and monitoring.
5. Finally, the ongoing analyses of multiple cancer genomes will
identify additional targets, whose pharmacologic exploitation
will undoubtedly result in new therapeutic approaches.
This chapter will review the progress that has been made in
understanding the genetic basis of sporadic cancers. An emphasis will be placed on an introduction to novel integrated genomic
approaches that allow a comprehensive and systematic evaluation
of genetic alterations that occur during the progression of cancer.
Using these powerful tools, cancer research, diagnosis, and treatment are poised for a transformation in the next years.

CANCER GENES AND THEIR MUTATIONS
Cancer genes are broadly grouped into oncogenes and tumor
suppressor genes. Using a classical analogy, oncogenes can be
compared to a car accelerator, so that a mutation in an oncogene would be the equivalent of having the accelerator continuously pressed.2 Tumor suppressor genes, in contrast, act as
brakes,2 so that when they are not mutated, they function to
inhibit tumorigenesis. Oncogene and tumor suppressor genes
may be classified by the nature of their somatic mutations in
tumors. Mutations in oncogenes typically occur at specific
hotspots, often affecting the same codon or clustered at neighboring codons in different tumors.1 Furthermore, mutations in
oncogenes are almost always missense, and the mutations usually affect only one allele, making them heterozygous. In contrast, tumor suppressor genes are usually mutated throughout
the gene; a large number of the mutations may truncate the encoded protein and generally affect both alleles, causing loss of
heterozygosity (LOH). Major types of somatic mutations present in malignant tumors include nucleotide substitutions, small
insertions and deletions (indels), chromosomal rearrangements,
and copy number alterations.

Cancer Gene Discovery by Sequencing
Candidate Gene Families
The availability of the human genome sequence provides new
opportunities to comprehensively search for somatic mutations
in cancer on a larger scale than previously possible. Progress
in the field has been closely linked to improvements in the
throughput of DNA analysis and in the continuous reduction in
sequencing costs. What follows are some of the achievements in
this research area, as well as how they affected knowledge of the
cancer genome.
A seminal work in the field was the systematic mutational profiling of the genes involved in the RAS-RAF pathway in multiple
tumors. This candidate gene approach led to the discovery that
BRAF is frequently mutated in melanomas and is mutated at a
lower frequency in other tumor types.9 Follow-up studies quickly
revealed that mutations in BRAF are mutually exclusive with alterations in KRAS,9,10 genetically emphasizing that these genes
function in the same pathway, a concept that had been previously
demonstrated in lower organisms such as Caenorhabditis elegans
and Drosophila melanogaster.11,12
In 2003, the identification of cancer genes shifted from a candidate gene approach to the mutational analyses of gene families.
The first gene families to be completely sequenced were those that

2
tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 1 The Cancer Genome

3

A metastatic cancer genome requires decades to develop
Aberrant crypt focus

APC/ β-catenin

Normal
Epithelium

Dysplastic
ACF

Adenoma

K-RAS

Early
Adenoma

Carcinoma

18q

Intermediate
Adenoma

BRAF

Other
Changes?

p53

Late
Adenoma

Carcinoma

Metastasis

PIK3CA

~10–30 Years
Figure 1.1 Schematic representation of the genomic and histopathologic steps associated with tumor progression: from the occurrence of the
initiating mutation in the founder cell to metastasis formation. It has been convincingly shown that the genomic landscape of solid tumors such as that
of pancreatic and colorectal tumors requires the accumulation of many genetic events, a process that requires decades to complete. This timeline offers
an incredible window of opportunity for the early detection, which is often associated with an excellent prognosis, of this disease.

involved protein13,14 and lipid phosphorylation.15 The rationale for
initially focusing on these gene families was threefold:
■ The corresponding proteins were already known at that time to

play a pivotal role in the signaling and proliferation of normal
and cancerous cells.
■ Multiple members of the protein kinases family had already
been linked to tumorigenesis.
■ Kinases are clearly amenable to pharmacologic inhibition,
making them attractive drug targets.
The mutational analysis of all the tyrosine-kinase domains in
colorectal cancers revealed that 30% of cases had a mutation in at
least one tyrosine-kinase gene, and overall mutations were identified in eight different kinases, most of which had not previously
been linked to cancer.13 An additional mutational analysis of the
coding exons of 518 protein kinase genes in 210 diverse human
cancers, including breast, lung, gastric, ovarian, renal, and acute
lymphoblastic leukemia, identified approximately 120 mutated
genes that probably contribute to oncogenesis.14 Because kinase
activity is attenuated by enzymes that remove phosphate groups
called phosphatases, the rational next step in these studies was to
perform a mutation analysis of the protein tyrosine phosphatases. A
mutational investigation of this family in colorectal cancer identified that 25% of cases had mutations in six different phosphatase
genes (PTPRF, PTPRG, PTPRT, PTPN3, PTPN13, or PTPN14).16
A combined analysis of the protein tyrosine kinases and the protein
tyrosine phosphatases showed that 50% of colorectal cancers had
mutations in a tyrosine-kinase gene, a protein tyrosine phosphatase gene, or both, further emphasizing the pivotal role of protein
phosphorylation in neoplastic progression. Many of the identified
genes had previously been linked to human cancer, thus validating

the unbiased comprehensive mutation profiling. These landmark
studies led to additional gene family surveys.
The phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) gene family, which
also plays a role in proliferation, adhesion, survival, and motility, was
also comprehensively investigated.17 Sequencing of the exons encoding the kinase domain of all 16 members belonging to this family
pinpointed PIK3CA as the only gene to harbor somatic mutations.
When the entire coding region was analyzed, PIK3CA was found to
be somatically mutated in 32% of colorectal cancers. At that time,
the PIK3CA gene was certainly not a newcomer in the cancer arena,
because it had previously been shown to be involved in cell transformation and metastasis.17 Strikingly, its staggeringly high mutation
frequency was discovered only through systematic sequencing of
the corresponding gene family.15 Subsequent analysis of PIK3CA in
other tumor types identified somatic mutations in this gene in additional cancer types, including 36% of hepatocellular carcinomas,
36% of endometrial carcinomas, 25% of breast carcinomas, 15% of
anaplastic oligodendrogliomas, 5% of medulloblastomas and anaplastic astrocytomas, and 27% of glioblastomas.18–22 It is known that
PIK3CA is one of the two (the other being KRAS) most commonly
mutated oncogenes in human cancers. Further investigation of the
PI3K pathway in colorectal cancer showed that 40% of tumors had
genetic alterations in one of the PI3K pathway genes, emphasizing
the central role of this pathway in colorectal cancer pathogenesis.23
Although most cancer genome studies of large gene families
have focused on the kinome, recent analyses have revealed that
members of other families highly represented in the human genome are also a target of mutational events in cancer. This is the
case of proteases, a complex group of enzymes consisting of at
least 569 components that constitute the so-called human degradome.24 Proteases exhibit an elaborate interplay with kinases and

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

Intestinal epithelial crypts

4

Principles of Oncology

Theodor Boveri hypothesized that numerical
chromosome alterations contribute to cancer

miRNA dysregulation
is implicated in cancer

The first somatically
mutated oncogene,
H-RAS, is cloned from
a human cancer cell line

At least 100 human
oncogenes and 15
tumour suppressor
genes have been
described by 2002

Knudson formulates the
“two-hit” hypothesis to
explain the genetic basis
of inherited and sporadic
retinoblastomas

By 2004, 291 genes are listed in the
Cancer Gene Census, a catalogue
of genes that are mutated in human
cancer at a frequency higher than
expected by chance

15 human oncogenes
have been identified
by 1985

142,586 mutations are in
the Cancer Gene Census

The Human
Genome Project
is launched

The first human tumor
exomes are sequenced

410 genes are in the
Cancer Gene Census

1914 1960 1971 1976 1982 1983 1985 1987 1990 1999 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011

Protoocogenes are
described by
Bishop and Varmus
Nowell proposes the
clonal evolution of tumor
cell populations
The first structural
chromosome abnormality
identified in human tumor
cells, the Philadelphia
chromosome, is described
by Nowell and Hungerford

Epigenetic
alterations are
identified within
human tumor
genomes

The first human tumour
suppressor gene, RB1,
is cloned from a
retinoblastoma

The Human Genome
Project is completed

2003–2005 the first
gene families were
sequenced
The Cancer Genome Project
is launched by the Wellcome
Trust Sanger Institute

The Cancer Genome
Atlas is launched
A HapMap of the
human genome
is developed

The International Cancer
Genome Consortium
is formed
The first human tumor
genome is sequenced

Figure 1.2 Timeline of seminal hypotheses, research discoveries, and research initiatives that have led to an improved understanding of the genetic
etiology of human tumorigenesis within the past century. The consensus cancer gene data were obtained from the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute
Cancer Genome Project Web site (http://www.sanger.ac.uk/genetics/CGP). (Redrawn from Bell DW. Our changing view of the genomic landscape of
cancer. J Pathol 2010;220:231–243.)

have traditionally been associated with cancer progression because
of their ability to degrade extracellular matrices, thus facilitating
tumor invasion and metastasis.25,26 However, recent studies have
shown that these enzymes hydrolyze a wide variety of substrates
and influence many different steps of cancer, including early stages
of tumor evolution.27 These functional studies have also revealed
that beyond their initial recognition as prometastatic enzymes,
they play dual roles in cancer, as assessed by the identification of a
growing number of tumor-suppressive proteases.28
These findings emphasized the possibility that mutational activation or inactivation of protease genes occurs in cancer. A systematic analysis of genetic alterations in breast and colorectal cancers
revealed that proteases from different catalytic classes were somatically mutated in cancer.29 These results prompted the mutational
analysis of entire protease families such as matrix metalloproteinases (MMP), a disintegrin and metalloproteinase (ADAM), and
ADAMs with thrombospondin domains (ADAMTS) in different
tumors. These studies led to the identification of protease genes
frequently mutated in cancer, such as MMP8, which is mutated
and functionally inactivated in 6.3% of human melanomas.30,31
The mutational status of caspases has also been extensively
analyzed in different tumors because these proteases play a fundamental role in the execution of apoptosis, one of the hallmarks
of cancer.32 These studies demonstrated that CASP8 is deleted in
neuroblastomas and inactivated by somatic mutations in a variety
of human malignancies, including head and neck, colorectal,
lung, and gastric carcinomas.33–35 Other large protease families

whose components are often mutated in cancer are the deubiquitinating enzymes (DUB), which catalyze the removal of ubiquitin
and ubiquitin-like modifiers of their target proteins.36 Some DUBs
were initially identified as oncogenic proteins, but further work has
shown that other deubiquitinases, such as CYLD, A20, and BAP1,
are tumor suppressors inactivated in cancer. CYLD is mutated in
patients with familial cylindromatosis, a disease characterized by
the formation of multiple tumors of skin appendages.37 A20 is a
DUB family member encoded by the TNFAIP3 gene, which is
mutated in a large number of Hodgkin lymphomas and primary
mediastinal B-cell lymphomas.38–41 Finally, the BAP1 gene, encoding an ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase, is frequently mutated in
metastasizing uveal melanomas42 and in other human malignancies, such as mesothelioma and renal cell carcinoma.43

Mutational Analysis of Exomes Using Sanger
Sequencing
Although the gene family approach for the identification of cancer
genes has proven extremely valuable, it still is a candidate approach
and thus biased in its nature. The next step forward in the mutational profiling of cancer has been the sequencing of exomes, which
is the entire coding portion of the human genome (18,000 proteinencoding genes). The exomes of many different tumors—including
breast, colorectal, pancreatic, and ovarian clear cell carcinomas; glioblastoma multiforme; and medulloblastoma—have been analyzed

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 1 The Cancer Genome

■ Cancer genomes have an average of 30 to 100 somatic altera-

tions per tumor in coding regions, which was a higher number
than previously thought. Although the alterations included
point mutations, small insertions, deletions, or amplifications,
the great majority of the mutations observed were single-base
substitutions.45,46
■ Even within a single cancer type, there is a significant intertumor heterogeneity. This means that multiple mutational
patterns (encompassing different mutant genes) are present in
tumors that cannot be distinguished based on histologic analysis. The concept that individual tumors have a unique genetic
milieu is highly relevant for personalized medicine, a concept
that will be further discussed.
■ The spectrum and nucleotide contexts of mutations differ between different tumor types. For example, over 50% of mutations in colorectal cancer were C:G to T:A transitions, and 10%
were C:G to G:C transversions. In contrast, in breast cancers,
only 35% of the mutations were C:G to T:A transitions, and 29%
were C:G to G:C transversions. Knowledge of mutation spectra
is vital because it allows insight into the mechanisms underlying
mutagenesis and repair in the various cancers investigated.
■ A considerably larger number of genes that had not been previously reported to be involved in cancer were found to play a
role in the disease.
■ Solid tumors arising in children, such as medulloblastomas,
harbor on average 5 to 10 times less gene alterations compared
to a typical adult solid tumor. These pediatric tumors also harbor fewer amplifications and homozygous deletions within coding genes compared to adult solid tumors.
Importantly, to deal with the large amount of data generated in
these genomic projects, it was necessary to develop new statistical
and bioinformatic tools. Furthermore, an examination of the overall
distribution of the identified mutations allowed for the development
of a novel view of cancer genome landscapes and a novel definition of cancer genes. These new concepts in the understanding of
cancer genetics are further discussed in the following paragraphs.
The compiled conclusions derived from these analyses have led to
a paradigm shift in the understanding of cancer genetics.
A clear indication of the power of the unbiased nature of the
whole exome surveys was revealed by the discovery of recurrent
mutations in the active site of IDH1, a gene with no known link
to gliomas, in 12% of tumors analyzed.46 Because malignant
gliomas are the most common and lethal tumors of the central
nervous system, and because glioblastoma multiforme (GBM;
World Health Organization grade IV astrocytoma) is the most
biologically aggressive subtype, the unveiling of IDH1 as a novel
GBM gene is extremely significant. Importantly, mutations of
IDH1 predominantly occurred in younger patients and were
associated with a better prognosis.49 Follow-up studies showed
that mutations of IDH1 occur early in glioma progression; the
R132 somatic mutation is harbored by the majority (greater than
70%) of grades II and III astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas,
as well as in secondary GBMs that develop from these lower
grade lesions.49–55 In contrast, less than 10% of primary GBMs
harbor these alterations. Furthermore, analysis of the associated
IDH2 revealed recurrent somatic mutations in the R172 residue,

which is the exact analog of the frequently mutated R132 residue
of IDH1. These mutations occur mostly in a mutually exclusive
manner with IDH1 mutations,49,51 suggesting that they have
equivalent phenotypic effects. Subsequently, IDH1 mutations
have been reported in additional cancer types, including hematologic neoplasias.56–58

Next-Generation Sequencing and Cancer
Genome Analysis
In 1977, the introduction of the Sanger method for DNA sequencing with chain-terminating inhibitors transformed biomedical
research.8 Over the past 30 years, this first-generation technology
has been universally used for elucidating the nucleotide sequence
of DNA molecules. However, the launching of new large-scale
projects, including those implicating whole-genome sequencing
of cancer samples, has made necessary the development of new
methods that are widely known as next-generation sequencing
technologies.59–61 These approaches have significantly lowered the
cost and the time required to determine the sequence of the 3 × 109
nucleotides present in the human genome. Moreover, they have a
series of advantages over Sanger sequencing, which are of special
interest for the analysis of cancer genomes.62 First, next-generation
sequencing approaches are more sensitive than Sanger methods
and can detect somatic mutations even when they are present in
only a subset of tumor cells.63 Moreover, these new sequencing
strategies are quantitative and can be used to simultaneously determine both nucleotide sequence and copy number variations.64
They can also be coupled to other procedures such as those involving paired-end reads, allowing for the identification of multiple
structural alterations, such as insertions, deletions, and rearrangements, that commonly occur in cancer genomes.63 Nonetheless,
next-generation sequencing still presents some limitations that
are mainly derived from the relatively high error rate in the short
reads generated during the sequencing process. In addition, these
short reads make the task of de novo assembly of the generated
sequences and the mapping of the reads to a reference genome extremely complex. To overcome some of these current limitations,
deep coverage of each analyzed genome is required and a careful
validation of the identified variants must be performed, typically
using Sanger sequencing. As a consequence, there is a substantial
increase in both the cost of the process and in the time of analysis.
Therefore, it can be concluded that whole-genome sequencing of
cancer samples is already a feasible task, but not yet a routine process. Further technical improvements will be required before the
task of decoding the entire genome of any malignant tumor of any
cancer patient can be applied to clinical practice.
The number of next-generation sequencing platforms has substantially grown over the past few years and currently includes
technologies from Roche/454, Illumina/Solexa, Life/APG’s
SOLiD3, Helicos BioSciences/HeliScope, and Pacific Biosciences/PacBio RS.61 Noteworthy also are the recent introduction
of the Polonator G.007 instrument, an open source platform with
freely available software and protocols; the Ion Torrent’s semiconductor sequencer; as well as those involving self-assembling DNA
nanoballs or nanopore technologies.65–67 These new machines are
driving the field toward the era of third-generation sequencing,
which brings enormous clinical interest because it can substantially increase the speed and accuracy of analyses at reduced costs
and can facilitate the possibility of single-molecule sequencing of
human genomes. A comparison of next-generation sequencing
platforms is shown in Table 1.1. These various platforms differ in
the method utilized for template preparation and in the nucleotide sequencing and imaging strategy, which finally result in their
different performance. Ultimately, the most suitable approach depends on the specific genome sequencing projects.61
Current methods of template preparation first involve randomly shearing genomic DNA into smaller fragments, from which

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

using Sanger sequencing. For the first time, these large-scale analyses
allowed researchers to describe and understand the genetic complexity of human cancers.29,44–48 The declared goals of these exome
studies were to provide methods for exomewide mutational analyses in human tumors, to characterize their spectrum and quantity
of somatic mutations, and, finally, to discover new genes involved
in tumorigenesis as well as novel pathways that have a role in these
tumors. In these studies, sequencing data were complemented with
gene expression and copy number analyses, thus providing a comprehensive view of the genetic complexity of human tumors.45–48
A number of conclusions can be drawn from these analyses, including the following:

5

6

Principles of Oncology

TA B L E 1 . 1
Comparative Analysis of Next-Generation Sequencing Platforms
Average
Read-Length
(Bases)

Platform

Library/Template
Preparation

Sequencing
Method

Roche
454 GS FLX

Fragment, mate-pair
Emulsion PCR

Pyrosequencing

Gb Per Run

Instrument
Cost (U.S.$)

0.45

500,000

Fast run times
High reagent cost

Illumina
HiSeq 2000

Fragment, mate-pair
Solid phase

Reversible
terminator

100–125

8 (mate-pair
run)

150–200

540,000

Most widely used
platform
Low multiplexing
capability

Life/APG’s
Fragment, mate-pair
SOLiD 5500xl
Emulsion PCR

Cleavable probe,
sequencing
by ligation

35–75

7 (mate-pair
run)

180–300

595,000

Inherent error
correction
Long run times

Helicos
BioSciences
HeliScope

Fragment, mate-pair
Single molecule

Reversible
terminator

32

8 (fragment
run)

37

999,000

Nonbias template
representation
Expensive, high
error rates

Pacific
Biosciences
PacBio RS

Fragment
Single molecule

Real-time
sequencing

1,000

1

0.075

NA

Greatest potential
for long reads
Highest error
rates

Polonator
G.007

Mate pair
Emulsion PCR

Noncleavable
probe,
sequencing
by ligation

26

12

170,000

Least expensive
platform
Shortest read
lengths

400

Run Time
(Days)
0.35

5 (mate-pair
run)

Comments

NA, not available.
Data represent an update of information provided in Metzker ML. Sequencing technologies—the next generation. Nat Rev Genet 2010;11:31–46.

a library of either fragment templates or mate-pair templates are
generated. Then, clonally amplified templates from single DNA
molecules are prepared by either emulsion polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or solid-phase amplification.68,69 Alternatively, it is
possible to prepare single-molecule templates through methods
that require less starting material and that do not involve PCR amplification reactions, which can be the source of artifactual mutations.70 Once prepared, templates are attached to a solid surface in
spatially separated sites, allowing thousands to billions of nucleotide sequencing reactions to be performed simultaneously.
The sequencing methods currently used by the different
next-generation sequencing platforms are diverse and have been
classified into four groups: cyclic reversible termination, singlenucleotide addition, real-time sequencing, and sequencing by
ligation (Fig. 1.3).61,71 These sequencing strategies are coupled
with different imaging methods, including those based on measuring bioluminescent signals or involving four-color imaging of
single molecular events. Finally, the extraordinary amount of data
released from these nucleotide sequencing platforms is stored,
assembled, and analyzed using powerful bioinformatic tools that
have been developed in parallel with next-generation sequencing
technologies.72
Next-generation sequencing approaches represent the newest
entry into the cancer genome decoding arena and have already
been applied to cancer analyses. The first research group to apply
these methodologies to whole cancer genomes was that of Ley
et al.,73 who reported in 2008 the sequencing of the entire genome
of a patient with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and its comparison with the normal tissue from the same patient, using the
Illumina/Solexa platform. As further described, this work allowed
for the identification of point mutations and structural alterations
of putative oncogenic relevance in AML and represented proof

of principle of the relevance of next-generation sequencing for
cancer research.

Whole-Genome Analysis Utilizing SecondGeneration Sequencing
The sequence of the first whole cancer genome was reported in
2008, where AML and normal skin from the same patient were
described.73 Numerous additional whole genomes, together with
the corresponding normal genomes of patients with a variety of
malignant tumors, have been reported since then.56,63,74–86
The first available whole genome of a cytogenetically normal
AML subtype M1 (AML-M1) revealed eight genes with novel
mutations along with another 500 to 1,000 additional mutations
found in noncoding regions of the genome. Most of the identified
genes had not been previously associated with cancer. However,
validation of the detected mutations did not identify novel recurring mutations in AML.73 Concomitantly, with the expansion in
the use of next-generation sequencers, many other whole genomes
from a number of cancer types started to be evaluated in a similar
manner (Fig. 1.4).87
In contrast to the first AML whole genome, the second did
observe a recurrent mutation in IDH1, encoding isocitrate dehydrogenase.56 Follow-up studies extended this finding and reported
that mutations in IDH1 and the related gene IDH2 occur at a 20%
to 30% frequency in AML patients and are associated with a poor
prognosis in some subgroups of patients.79,80,88 A good example
illustrating the high pace at which second-generation technologies and their accompanying analytical tools are found is demonstrated by the following finding derived from a reanalysis of the first
AML whole genome. Thus, when improvements in sequencing

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

7

Chapter 1 The Cancer Genome

A Pyrosequencing approach used in 454/Roche

Intensity

DNA polymerase

3’
5’

Cy5

Time

PPi
ATP-sulphurylase

A

ATP

Luciferase

Light

B Illumina sequencing by synthesis approach

Cy5

Cy5

Cy5

T

C

Cy5

D Sequencing by ligation in ABI SOLID
DNA ligase

3’
5’

G G T A G A
T

C
A

Cy3

G

DNA polymerase

T

3’
5’

A

G

A

3’
5’

A C G T
A
C
G
T

G

G

T

A

ATGG…
Figure 1.3 Advances in sequencing chemistry implemented in next-generation sequencers. (A) The pyrosequencing approach implemented in 454/
Roche sequencing technology detects incorporated nucleotides by chemiluminescence resulting from PPi release. (B) The Illumina method utilizes
sequencing by synthesis in the presence of fluorescently labeled nucleotide analogs that serve as reversible reaction terminators. (C) The singlemolecule sequencing by synthesis approach detects template extension using Cy3 and Cy5 labels attached to the sequencing primer and the incoming
nucleotides, respectively. (D) The SOLiD method sequences templates by sequential ligation of labeled degenerate probes. Two-base encoding
implemented in the SOLiD instrument allows for probing each nucleotide position twice. (From Morozova O, Hirst M, Marra MA. Applications of new
sequencing technologies for transcriptome analysis. Annu Rev Genomics Hum Genet 2009;10:135–151.)

techniques were available, the first AML whole genome (described
previously), which identified no recurring mutations and had a
91.2% diploid coverage, was reevaluated by deeper sequence
coverage, yielding 99.6% diploid coverage of the genome. This
improvement, together with more advanced mutation calling
algorithms, allowed for the discovery of several nonsynonymous
mutations that had not been identified in the initial sequencing.
This included a frameshift mutation in the DNA methyltransferase gene DNMT3A. Validation of DNMT3A in 280 additional de
novo AML patients to define recurring mutations led to the significant discovery that a total of 22.1% of AML cases had mutations
in DNMT3A that were predicted to affect translation. The median
overall survival among patients with DNMT3A mutations was significantly shorter than that among patients without such mutations
(12.3 months versus 41.1 months; p <0.001).
Shortly after this study, complete sequences of a series of cancer
genomes, together with matched normal genomes of the same patients, were reported.56,78,83,84 These works opened the way to more
ambitious initiatives, including those involving large international
consortia, aimed at decoding the genome of malignant tumors
from thousands of cancer patients. Thus, over the last 2 years,
many whole genomes of different human malignancies have been
made available.74–76

In addition to direct applications of next-generation sequencing technologies for the mutational analysis of cancer genomes,
these methods have an additional range of applications in cancer
research. Thus, genome sequencing efforts have begun to elucidate the genomic changes that accompany metastasis evolution through a comparative analysis of primary and metastatic
lesions from breast and pancreatic cancer patients.77,81,82,85 Likewise, massively parallel sequencing has been used to analyze the
evolution of a tongue adenocarcinoma in response to selection
by targeted kinase inhibitors.89 Detailed information of several of these whole genome projects is found in the following
paragraph.
The first solid cancer to undergo whole-genome sequencing
was a malignant melanoma that was compared to a lymphoblastoid cell line from the same individual.83 Impressively, a total of
33,345 somatic base substitutions were identified, with 187 nonsynonymous substitutions in protein-coding sequences, at least
one order of magnitude higher than any other cancer type. Most
somatic base substitutions were C:G > T:A transitions, and of the
510 dinucleotide substitutions, 360 were CC.TT/GG.AA changes,
which is consistent with ultraviolet light exposure mutation signatures previously reported in melanoma.14 Such results from the
most comprehensive catalog of somatic mutations not only provide

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

A

C Single molecule sequencing by synthesis
in HeliScope
DNA polymerase

8
Pi

lo

Principles of Oncology
Lu
ng
G
M
ad L
Ki Kid
lio Lym
N
ed
H
tic
L
en un
dn n
ch
eu G
un
m
ea
ph
ul
as
e
a
oc g s
C
r
e
l
E
r
g
d
i
l
om
M
ob ob
ob
y yc
tro
o
lo om M
s
Pa
St an
lo op sm B arc qu el
pa le
P
la la
la
op Th
cy
r
nc B w g a B ye ro
o
d
U
C
a
l
in am an
s
s
s
h
e
O pi ar
a
m
t
t
r
t
to A to A ho yr
l
l
s
a
L
c
n
e
r
l
d
ce om tat var llar ce ive eru ac ec rv tum gu ce de om ou om
m M b
m L
oi CL om om rea eas ad
d
a L e
a
e
a L
h
L a a
y
s
s
k ix
s
y
ll a
ll
ll
r s
r a
t e
1,000
Ki
dn
ey

Somatic mutation prevalance
(number mutations per megabase)

cy

100
10
1.0
0.1
0.01
0.001

Figure 1.4 The prevalence of somatic mutations across human cancer types. Every dot represents a sample, whereas the red horizontal lines are the
median numbers of mutations in the respective cancer types. The vertical axis (log scaled) shows the number of mutations per megabase, whereas
the different cancer types are ordered on the horizontal axis based on their median numbers of somatic mutations. ALL, acute lymphoblastic leukemia;
AML, acute myeloid leukemia; CLL, chronic lymphocytic leukemia. (Used with permission from Alexandrov LB, Nik-Zainal S, Wedge DC, et al. Signatures
of mutational processes in human cancer. Nature 2013;500:415–421.)

insight into the DNA damage signature in this cancer type, but can
also be useful in determining the relative order of some acquired
mutations. Indeed, this study shows that a significant correlation
exists between the presence of a higher proportion of C.A/G.T
transitions in early (82%) compared to late mutations (53%).
Another important aspect that the comprehensive nature of this
melanoma study provided was that cancer mutations are spread
out unevenly throughout the genome, with a lower prevalence in

Biopsy

regions of transcribed genes, suggesting that DNA repair occurs
mainly in these areas.
An interesting and pioneering example of the power of wholegenome sequencing in deciphering the mutation evolution in
carcinogenesis was seen in a study in which a basallike breast cancer tumor, a brain metastasis, a tumor xenograft derived from the
primary tumor, and the peripheral blood from the same patient
were compared (Fig. 1.5).85 This analysis showed a wide range of

Immunodeficient
mouse

Xenograft
tumor

Primary
breast
tumor

Metastatic
brain tumor

Genome wide
DNA sequencing

Treatment

Figure 1.5 Covering all the bases in metastatic assessment. Ding et al.85 performed a genomewide analysis on three tumor samples: a patient’s
primary breast tumor; her metastatic brain tumor, which formed despite therapy; and a xenograft tumor in a mouse, originating from the patient’s
breast tumor. They find that the primary tumor differs from the metastatic and xenograft tumors mainly in the prevalence of genomic mutations. (With
permission from Gray J. Cancer: genomics of metastasis. Nature 2010;464:989–990.)

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

mutant allele frequencies in the primary tumor, which was narrowed in the metastasis and xenograft samples. This suggested that
the primary tumor was significantly more heterogeneous in its cell
populations compared to its matched metastasis and xenograft
samples because these underwent selection processes whether
during metastasis or transplantation. The clear overlap in mutation incidence between the metastatic and xenograft cases suggests
that xenografts undergo similar selection as metastatic lesions and,
therefore, are a reliable source for genomic analyses. The main
conclusion of this whole-genome study was that, although metastatic tumors harbor an increased number of genetic alterations,
the majority of the alterations found in the primary tumor are preserved. Interestingly, single-cell genome sequencing of a breast primary tumour and its liver metastasis indicated that a single clonal
expansion formed the primary tumor and seeded the metastasis.90
Further studies have confirmed and extended these findings to
metastatic tumors from different types, including renal and pancreatic carcinomas.91
The importance of performing whole-genome sequencing has
also been emphasized by the recent identification of somatic mutations in regulatory regions, which can also elicit tumorigenesis.
In a study reviewing the noncoding mutations in 19 melanoma
whole-genome samples, two recurrent mutations in 17 of the 19
cases studied within the telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT)
promoter region were revealed.92 When these two mutations were
investigated in an extension of 51 additional tumors and their
matched normal tissues, it was observed that 33 tumors harbored
one of the mutations and that the mutations occurred in a mutually
exclusive manner. These two mutations generate an identical
11 bp nucleotide stretch that contains the consensus binding site
for E-twenty-six (ETS) transcription factors. When cloned into a
luciferase reporter assay system, it was shown that these mutations
conferred a two- to fourfold increase in transcriptional activity of
this promoter in five melanoma cell lines. Although this alteration
is much more frequent in melanoma, it is also present in other
cancer types because 16% of the cancers listed in the Cancer
Cell Line Encyclopedia harbor one of the two TERT mutations.
In combination, these TERT mutations are seen in a greater frequency than BRAF- and NRAS-activating mutations. They occur
in a mutually exclusive manner and in regions that do not show a
large background mutation rate, all suggesting that these mutations
are important driver events contributing to oncogenesis. Further
supporting this was another recent study that identified these same
two mutations in the germ line of familial melanoma patients.93
As the TERT promoter mutation discovery shows, regions of
the genome that do not code for proteins are just as vital in our
understanding of the biology behind tumor development and
progression. Another class of non–protein-coding regions in the
genome are the noncoding RNAs. One class of noncoding RNAs
are microRNAs (miRNA). Discovered 20 years ago, miRNAs are
known to be expressed in a tissue or developmentally specific manner and their expression can influence cellular growth and differentiation along with cancer-related pathways such as apoptosis or
stress response. miRNAs do this through either overexpression,
leading to the targeting and downregulation of tumor suppressor
genes, or inversely through their own downregulation, leading to
increased expression of their target oncogene. miRNAs have been
extensively studied in cancer and their functional effects have
been noted in a wide variety of cancers like glioma94 and breast
cancer,95 to name just a few.
Another class of noncoding RNAs (ncRNA) are the long noncoding RNAs (lncRNA). These RNAs are typically greater than
200 bp and can range up to 100 kb in size. They are transcribed
by RNA polymerase II and can undergo splicing and polyadenylation. Although much less extensively studied when compared to
miRNAs for their role in cancer, lncRNAs are beginning to come
under much more scrutiny. A recent study of the steroid receptor RNA activator (SRA) revealed two transcripts, a lncRNA (SRA)
and a translated transcript (steroid receptor RNA activator protein

9

[SRAP]), that coexist within breast cancer cells. However, their
expression varies within breast cancer cell lines with different phenotypes. It was shown that in a more invasive breast cancer line,
higher relative levels of the noncoding transcript were seen.96 Because this ncRNA acts as part of a ribonucleoprotein complex that
is recruited to the promoter region of regulatory genes, it has been
hypothesized that this shift in balance between both noncoding
and coding transcripts may be associated with growth advantages.
When this balance was shifted in vitro, it led to a large increase in
transcripts associated with invasion and migration. The results of
this study highlight the importance of the investigation into the
roles of ncRNA in tumor development or progression and confirm
again that the study of coding variants is not sufficient in determining the full genomic spectrum of cancer.
It must be also noted that the recent analysis of whole genomes
of many different human tumors has provided additional insights
into cancer evolution. Thus, it has been demonstrated that multiple mutational processes are operative during cancer development
and progression, each of which has the capacity to leave its particular mutational signature on the genome. A remarkable and innovative study in this regard was aimed at the generation of the entire
catalog of somatic mutations in 21 breast carcinomas and the
identification of the mutational signatures of the underlying processes. This analysis revealed the occurrence of multiple, distinct
single- and double-nucleotide substitution signatures. Moreover, it
was reported that breast carcinomas harboring BRCA1 or BRCA2
mutations showed a characteristic combination of substitution
mutation signatures and a particular profile of genomic deletions.
An additional contribution of this analysis was the identification
of a distinctive phenomenon of localized hypermutation, which
has been termed kataegis, and which has also subsequently been
observed in other malignancies distinct from breast carcinomas.87
Whole-genome sequencing of human carcinomas has also allowed for the ability to characterize other massive genomic alterations, termed chromothripsis and chromoplexy, occurring across
different cancer subtypes.97 Chromothripsis implies a massive
genomic rearrangement acquired in a one-step catastrophic event
during cancer development and has been detected in about 2% to
3% of all tumors, but is present at high frequency in some particular cases, such as bone cancers.98 Chromoplexy has been originally
described in prostate cancer and involves many DNA translocations and deletions that arise in a highly interdependent manner
and result in the coordinate disruption of multiple cancer genes.99
These newly described phenomena represent powerful strategies
of rapid genome evolution, which may play essential roles during
carcinogenesis.

Whole-Exome Analysis Utilizing SecondGeneration Sequencing
Another application of second-generation sequencing involves utilizing nucleic acid “baits” to capture regions of interest in the total
pool of nucleic acids. These could either be DNA, as described
previously,100,101 or RNA.102 Indeed, most areas of interest in the
genome can be targeted, including exons and ncRNAs. Despite
inefficiencies in the exome-targeting process—including the uneven capture efficiency across exons, which results in not all exons
being sequenced, and the occurrence of some off-target hybridization events—the higher coverage of the exome makes it highly
suitable for mutation discovery in cancer samples.
Over the last few years, thousands of cancer samples have been
subjected to whole-exome sequencing. These studies, combined
with data from whole-genome sequencing, have provided an unprecedented level of information about the mutational landscape
of the most frequent human malignancies.74–76 In addition, wholeexome sequencing has been used to identify the somatic mutations
characteristic of both rare tumors and those that are prevalent in
certain geographical regions.76

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

Chapter 1 The Cancer Genome

10

Principles of Oncology

Overall, these studies have provided very valuable information
about mutation rates and spectra across cancer types and subtypes.87,103,104 Remarkably, the variation in mutational frequency
between different tumors is extraordinary, with hematologic and
pediatric cancers showing the lowest mutation rates (0.001 per
Mb of DNA), and melanoma and lung cancers presenting the
highest mutational burden (more than 400 per Mb). Wholeexome sequencing has also contributed to the identification of
novel cancer genes that had not been previously described to be
causally implicated in the carcinogenesis process. These genes
belong to different functional categories, including signal transduction, RNA maturation, metabolic regulation, epigenetics,
chromatin remodeling, and protein homeostasis.74 Finally, a
combination of data from whole-exome and whole-genome sequencing has allowed for the identification of the signatures of
mutational processes operating in different cancer types.87 Thus,
an analysis of a dataset of about 5 million mutations from over
7,000 cancers from 30 different types has allowed for the extraction of more than 20 distinct mutational signatures. Some of
them, such as those derived from the activity of APOBEC cytidine deaminases, are present in most cancer types, whereas others
are characteristic of specific tumors. Known signatures associated
with age, smoking, ultraviolet (UV) light exposure, and DNA repair defects have been also identified in this work, but many of
the detected mutational signatures are of cryptic origin. These
findings demonstrate the impressive diversity of mutational processes underlying cancer development and may have enormous
implications for the future understanding of cancer biology, prevention, and treatment.

SOMATIC ALTERATION CLASSES
DETECTED BY CANCER GENOME
ANALYSIS
Whole-genome sequencing of cancer genomes has an enormous
potential to detect all major types of somatic mutations present in
malignant tumors. This large repertoire of genomic abnormalities
includes single nucleotide changes, small insertions and deletions,
large chromosomal reorganizations, and copy number variations
(Fig. 1.6).
Nucleotide substitutions are the most frequent somatic mutations detected in malignant tumors, although there is a substantial
variability in the mutational frequency among different cancers.60
On average, human malignancies have one nucleotide change per
million bases, but melanomas reach mutational rates 10-fold higher,
and tumors with mutator phenotype caused by DNA mismatch
repair deficiencies may accumulate tens of mutations per million
nucleotides. By contrast, tumors of hematopoietic origin have less
than one base substitution per million. Several bioinformatic tools
and pipelines have been developed to efficiently detect somatic
nucleotide substitutions through comparison of the genomic information obtained from paired normal and tumor samples from the
same patient. Likewise, there are a number of publicly available
computational methods to predict the functional relevance of the
identified mutations in cancer specimens.60 Most of these bioinformatic tools exclusively deal with nucleotide changes in protein coding regions and evaluate the putative structural or functional effect
of an amino acid substitution in a determined protein, thus obviating changes in other genomic regions, which can also be of crucial
interest in cancer. In any case, current computational methods
used in this regard are far from being optimal, and experimental
validation is finally required to assess the functional relevance of
nucleotide substitutions found in cancer genomes.
For years, the main focus of cancer genome analyses has been
on identifying coding mutations that cause a change in the amino
acid sequence of a gene. The rationale behind this is quite sound
because any mutation that creates a novel protein or truncates an

essential protein has the potential to drastically change the cellular environment. Examples of this have been shown earlier in
the chapter with BRAF and KRAS along with many others. With
the advancements in next-generation sequencing, larger studies
are able to be conducted. These studies give the power to detect
mutations occurring in the cancer genome at a lower frequency.
Interesting to note is that these studies are leading to the discovery
that recurrent synonymous mutations occur in cancer. Previously
believed to be merely neutral mutations that maintain no functional role in tumorigenesis, these mutations were largely ignored,
but a recent study shows105 that simply dismissing these mutations
as silent may be premature.
In a review of only 29 melanoma exomes and genomes, 16
recurring synonymous mutations were discovered. When these
mutations were screened in additional samples, a synonymous
mutation in the gene BCL2L12 was discovered in 12 out of 285
total samples. The observed frequency of this recurrent mutation is
greater than expected by chance, suggesting that it has undergone
some type of selective pressure during tumor development.105 Noting that BCL2L12 had previously been linked to tumorigenesis,
the mutation was further evaluated for its functional effect, with
the finding that it led to an abrogation of the effect of a miRNA,
leading to the deregulated expression of BCL2L12. BCL2L12 is
a negative regulator of the gene p53, which functions by binding
and inhibiting apoptosis in glioma.106 Accordingly, the dysregulation observed in BCL2L12 led to a reduction in p53 target gene
expression.
Small insertions and deletions (indels) represent a second
category of somatic mutations that can be discovered by wholegenome sequencing of cancer specimens. These mutations are
about 10-fold less frequent than nucleotide substitutions, but may
also have an obvious impact in cancer progression. Accordingly,
specific bioinformatic tools have been created to detect these indels in the context of the large amount of information generated by
whole-genome sequencing projects.107
The systematic identification of large chromosomal rearrangements in cancer genomes represents one of the most successful applications of next-generation sequencing methodologies. Previous
strategies in this regard had mainly been based on the utilization of
cytogenetic methods for the identification of recurrent translocations in hematopoietic tumors. More recently, a combination of
bioinformatics and functional methods has allowed for the finding
of recurrent translocations in solid epithelial tumors such as TMPRSS2–ERG in prostate cancer and EML4–ALK in non–smallcell lung cancer.108,109 Now, by using a next-generation sequencing
analysis of genomes and transcriptomes, it is possible to systematically search for both intrachromosomal and interchromosomal rearrangements occurring in cancer specimens. These studies have
already proven their usefulness for cancer research through the
discovery of recurrent translocations involving genes of the RAF kinase pathway in prostate and gastric cancers and in melanomas.110
Likewise, massively parallel paired-end genome and transcriptome
sequencing has already been used to detect new gene fusions in
cancer and to catalog all major structural rearrangements present
in some tumors and cancer cell lines.63,111–113 The ongoing cancer
genome projects involving thousands of tumor samples will likely
lead to the detection of many other chromosomal rearrangements
of relevance in specific subsets of cancers. It is also remarkable that
whole-genome sequencing may also facilitate the identification of
other types of genomic alterations, including rearrangements of
repetitive elements, such as active retrotransposons, or insertions
of foreign gene sequences, such as viral genomes, which can contribute to cancer development. Indeed, a next-generation sequencing analysis of the transcriptome of Merkel cell carcinoma samples
has revealed the clonal integration within the tumor genome of a
previously unknown polyomavirus likely implicated in the pathogenesis of this rare but aggressive skin cancer.114
Finally, next-generation sequencing approaches have also demonstrated their feasibility to analyze the pattern of copy number

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

11

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

Chapter 1 The Cancer Genome

Figure 1.6 The catalog of somatic mutations in COLO-829. Chromosome ideograms are shown around the outer ring and are oriented pter–qter in
a clockwise direction with centromeres indicated in red. Other tracks contain somatic alterations (from outside to inside): validated insertions (light
green rectangles); validated deletions (dark green rectangles); heterozygous (light orange bars), and homozygous (dark orange bars) substitutions
shown by density per 10 megabases; coding substitutions (colored squares: silent in gray, missense in purple, nonsense in red, and splice site in
black); copy number (blue lines); regions of loss of heterozygosity (LOH) (red lines); validated intrachromosomal rearrangements (green lines); validated
interchromosomal rearrangements (purple lines). (From Pleasance ED, Cheetham RK, Stephens PJ, et al. A comprehensive catalogue of somatic
mutations from a human cancer genome. Nature 2010;463:191–196.)

alterations in cancer, because they allow researchers to count the
number of reads in both tumor and normal samples at any given
genomic region and then to evaluate the tumor-to-normal copy
number ratio at this particular region. These new methods offer
some advantages when compared with those based on microarrays, including much better resolution, precise definition of the
involved breakpoints, and absence of saturation, which facilitates
the accurate estimation of high copy number levels occurring in
some genomic loci of malignant tumors.60

PATHWAY-ORIENTED MODELS OF CANCER
GENOME ANALYSIS
Genomewide mutational analyses suggest that the mutational landscape of cancer is made up of a handful of genes that are mutated in

a high fraction of tumors, otherwise known as mountains, and most
mutated genes are altered at relatively low frequencies, otherwise
known as hills (Fig. 1.7).29 The mountains probably give a high
selective advantage to the mutated cell, and the hills might provide
a lower advantage, making it hard to distinguish them from passenger mutations. Because the hills differ between cancer types, it
seems that the cancer genome is more complex and heterogeneous
than anticipated. Although highly heterogeneous, bioinformatic
studies suggest that the mountains and hills can be grouped into
sets of pathways and biologic processes. Some of these pathways are
affected by mutations in a few pathway members and others by numerous members. For example, pathway analyses have allowed for
the stratification of mutated genes in pancreatic adenocarcinomas
to 12 core pathways that have at least one member mutated in 67%
to 100% of the tumors analyzed (Fig. 1.8).45 These core pathways
deviated to some that harbored one single highly mutated gene,

12

Principles of Oncology

.1
rom
Ch

.1
rom
Ch

.X
m
ro
Ch

.X
m
ro
Ch

A

B

Colorectal Cancer Mx38

Breast Cancer B3C

Figure 1.7 Cancer genome landscapes. Nonsilent somatic mutations are plotted in a two-dimensional space representing chromosomal positions of
RefSeq genes. The telomere of the short arm of chromosome 1 is represented in the rear left corner of the green plane and ascending chromosomal
positions continue in the direction of the arrow. Chromosomal positions that follow the front edge of the plane are continued at the back edge of the
plane of the adjacent row, and chromosomes are appended end to end. Peaks indicate the 60 highest ranking CAN genes for each tumor type, with
peak heights reflecting CaMP scores. The dots represent genes that were somatically mutated in the individual colorectal (Mx38) (A) or breast tumor
(B3C) (B). The dots corresponding to mutated genes that coincided with hills or mountains are black with white rims; the remaining dots are white with
red rims. The mountain on the right of both landscapes represents TP53 (chromosome 17), and the other mountain shared by both breast and colorectal
cancers is PIK3CA (upper left, chromosome 3). (Redrawn from Wood LD, Parsons DW, Jones S, et al. The genomic landscapes of human breast and
colorectal cancers. Science 2007;318:1108–1113. Reprinted with permission from the American Association for the Advancement of Science).

B

SMAD4

A

ATF2

KRAS

TGF-𝛃
signaling

Pa14C

APG4A

Integrin
signaling

Homophilic
cell
adhesion

ITGA4

PCDH15

JNK
signaling

K-Ras
signaling

DEPDC2

MAP2

CREBBP

DAXX

APC2
TP53

Pancreatic
Cancers

Invasion

Wnt/Notch
signaling
BMPR2

C

NFATC3

KRAS

Small
GTPasesignaling

Hedgehog
signaling

Control of
G1/S phase
transition

DNA damage
control
Apoptosis

LAMA4

FAT

Pa10X

PRSS23

PRKCG

TSC2

BMPR2
N.O.

CDKN2A
CASP10

Figure 1.8 Signaling pathways and processes. (A) The 12 pathways and processes whose component genes were genetically altered in most
pancreatic cancers. (B,C) Two pancreatic cancers (Pa14C and Pa10X) and the specific genes that are mutated in them. The positions around the circles
in (B) and (C) correspond to the pathways and processes in (A). Several pathway components overlapped, as illustrated by the BMPR2 mutation that
presumably disrupted both the SMAD4 and Hedgehog signaling pathways in Pa10X. Additionally, not all 12 processes and pathways were altered in
every pancreatic cancer, as exemplified by the fact that no mutations known to affect DNA damage control were observed in Pa10X. NO, not observed.
(Redrawn from Jones S, Zhang X, Parsons DW, et al. Core signaling pathways in human pancreatic cancers revealed by global genomic analyses.
Science 2008;321:1801–1806. Reprinted with permission from the American Association for the Advancement of Science).

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

such as in KRAS in the G1/S cell cycle transition pathway and
pathways where a few mutated genes were found, such as the transforming growth factor (TGF-β) signaling pathway. Finally, there
were pathways in which many different genes were mutated, such
as invasion regulation molecules, cell adhesion molecules, and
integrin signaling. Importantly, independent of how many genes
in the same pathway are affected, if they are found to occur in a
mutually exclusive fashion in a single tumor, they most likely give
the same selective pressure for clonal expansion.
The idea of genetically analyzing pathways rather than individual genes has been applied previously, revealing the concept of
mutual exclusivity. Mutual exclusivity has been shown elegantly
in the case of KRAS and BRAF, where a KRAS-mutated cancer
generally does not also harbor a BRAF mutation, because KRAS
is upstream of BRAF in the same pathway.9 A similar concept was
applied for PIK3CA and PTEN, where both mutations do not
usually occur in the same tumor.23
With the ever expanding amounts of genetic information being
gathered, the ability to search for common pathways being affected
in cancer is increasing. One new pathway that is beginning to
emerge is the glutamate-signaling pathway. Glutamate dysregulation has been implicated in a number of cancers. In a study of pancreatic duct adenocarcinoma (PDAC), it was seen that glutamate
levels were significantly higher in the tissue of individuals with
chronic pancreatitis (CP) and PDAC when compared to normal
pancreas tissue.115 It was also observed that the increased glutamate levels led to proinvasion and antiapoptotic signaling through
the activation of AMPA receptors.
Also in this regard, and through the use of whole-exome sequencing, it has been recently shown that the glutamate receptor gene
GRIN2A is highly mutated in melanoma. The finding that many
of these mutations are nonsense has suggested that GRIN2A is a
novel tumor suppressor. Additional genes in the glutamate pathway
have also found mutated in melanomas.116 Pathway analyses and
statistical testing on the whole-exome data have also revealed the
glutamate signaling pathway to be dysregulated. These results have
been further corroborated in another study reporting mutations in
the metabotropic glutamate receptor GRM3117,118 in melanoma.
A functional analysis of mutations found in GRM3 in melanoma
tumor samples has shown an increased activation of MEK1/2 kinase, increased migration, and anchorage-independent growth.117

Passenger and Driver Mutations
By the time a cancer is diagnosed, it is comprised of billions of
cells carrying DNA abnormalities, some of which have a functional
role in malignant proliferation; however, many genetic lesions acquired along the way have no functional role in tumorigenesis.14
The emerging landscapes of cancer genomes include thousands
of genes that were not previously linked to tumorigenesis but are
found to be somatically mutated. Many of these changes are likely
to be passengers, or neutral, in that they have no functional effects
on the growth of the tumor.14 Only a small fraction of the genetic
alterations are expected to drive cancer evolution by giving cells a
selective advantage over their neighbors. Passenger mutations occur
incidentally in a cell that later or in parallel develops a driver mutation, but are not ultimately pathogenic.119 Although neutral, cataloging passengers mutations is important because they incorporate
the signatures of the previous exposures the cancer cell underwent
as well as DNA repair defects the cancer cell has. In many cases, the
passenger and driver mutations occur at similar frequencies and the
identification of drivers versus the passenger is of utmost relevance
and remains a pressing challenge in cancer genetics.120–122 This
goal will eventually be achieved through a combination of genetic
and functional approaches, some of which are listed as follows.
The most reliable indicator that a gene was selected for and
therefore is highly likely to be pathogenic is the identification of
recurrent mutations, whether at the same exact amino acid position

13

or in neighboring amino acid positions in different patients. More
than that, if somatic alterations in the same gene occur very frequently (mountains in the tumor genome landscape), these can
be confidently classified as drivers. For example, cancer alleles that
are identified in multiple patients and different tumors types, such
as those found in KRAS, TP53, PTEN, and PIK3CA, are clearly
selected for during tumorigenesis.
However, most genes discovered thus far are mutated in a relatively small fraction of tumors (hills), and it has been clearly shown
that genes that are mutated in less than 1% of patients can still act
as drivers.123 The systematic sequencing of newly identified putative
cancer genes in the vast number of specimens from cancer patients
will help in this regard. However, even if examining large numbers
of samples can provide helpful information to classify drivers versus
passengers, this approach alone is limited by the marked variation
in mutation frequency among individual tumors and individual
genes. The statistical test utilized in this case calculates the probability that the number of mutations in a given gene reflects a mutation frequency that is greater than expected from the nonfunctional
background mutation rate,29,124 which is different between different
cancer types. These analyses incorporate the number of somatic
alterations observed, the number of tumors studied, and the number of nucleotides that were successfully sequenced and analyzed.
Another approach often used to distinguish driver from passenger mutations exploits the statistical analysis of synonymous versus
nonsynonymous changes.125 In contrast to nonsynonymous mutations, synonymous mutations do not alter the protein sequence.
Therefore, they do not usually apply a growth advantage and would
not be expected to be selected during tumorigenesis. This strategy
works by comparing the observed-to-expected ratio of synonymous
with that of nonsynonymous mutation. An increased proportion
of nonsynonymous mutations from the expected 2:1 ratio implies
selection pressure during tumorigenesis.
Other approaches are based on the concept that driver mutations may have characteristics similar to those causing Mendelian
disease when inherited in the germ line and may be identifiable
by constraints on tolerated amino acid residues at the mutated
positions. In contrast, passenger mutations may have characteristics more similar to those of nonsynonymous SNPs with high
minor allele frequencies. Based on these premises, supervised machine learning methods have been used to predict which missense
mutations are drivers.126 Additional approaches to decipher drivers
from passengers include the identification of mutations that affect
locations that have previously been shown to be cancer causing in
protein members of the same gene family. Enrichment for mutations in evolutionarily conserved residues are analyzed by algorithms, such as SIFT (sorting intolerant from tolerant (SIFT),127
which estimates the effects of the different mutations identified.
Probably the most conclusive methods to identify driver mutations will be rigorous functional studies using biochemical assays
as well as model organisms or cultured cells, using knockout and
knockin of individual cancer alleles.128 Unfortunately, these methods are not well suited to the analysis of the hundreds of gene candidates that arise from every large-scale cancer genome project.
In conclusion, it is fair to say that sequencing cancer genomes is
only the beginning of a journey that will ultimately be completed
when the thousands of the newly discovered alleles are annotated
as being the drivers of this disease. A summary of the various nextgeneration applications and approaches for their analysis is summarized in Figure 1.9 and Table 1.2.

NETWORKS OF CANCER GENOME
PROJECTS
The repertoire of oncogenic mutations is extremely heterogeneous, suggesting that it would be difficult for independent cancer
genome initiatives to address the generation of comprehensive

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

Chapter 1 The Cancer Genome

Principles of Oncology

n

Mutatio

I559Del
D560Y
N584K
R574Del
T576Del
E439DL

le

K489Del

E439DL

33

ta
u
M

rofi
P
n
tio

nS
pe
ctr
u

m

A-T
A-T
300

400

60

500

Mu

io
tat

RhoGAP
SH2
SH3_1
Lobular
metastasis

Basal
metastasis

n Ra

NTRK

9% M A

PI3K
8% M A

n

GSK3

8% M

16% M

10% M

CD

PTEN
2% M D

AKT

2% M

Pa

EPHA/B

Me

tio
r ia
Va
ral
Structu

FR

thy
latio
n

te

Copy N
umb
er
Va
ria
tio

14

MDM2
9% M A

2% M

ATM
TSC1/2

th
wa
yA

8% M D

TP53

2% M

36% M D 400

500

STK11

naly

sis

600

700

800

x
RNA E

ion
s
es

900

base position

pr

Figure 1.9 Landscape of cancer genomics analyses. NGS data will be generated for hundreds of tumors from all major cancer types in the near
future. The integrated analysis of DNA, RNA, and methylation sequencing data will help elucidate all relevant genetic changes in cancers. (Used with
permission from Ding L, Wendl MC, Koboldt DC, et al. Analysis of next-generation genomic data in cancer: accomplishments and challenges. Hum Mol
Genet 2010;19:R188–R196.)

catalogs of mutations in the wide spectrum of human malignancies. Accordingly, there have been different efforts to coordinate
the cancer genome sequencing projects being carried out around
the world, including The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the
International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC). Moreover,
there are other initiatives that are more focused on specific tumors, such as that led by scientists at St. Jude Children’s Research
Hospital in Memphis, and Washington University, which aims at
sequencing multiple pediatric cancer genomes.129
TCGA began in 2006 in the United States as a comprehensive program in cancer genomics supported by the U.S. National
Institutes of Health (NIH). The initial project focused on three
tumors: GBM, serous cystadenocarcinoma of the ovary, and lung
squamous carcinoma. These studies have already generated novel

and interesting information regarding genes mutated in these
malignancies.134 On the basis of these positive results, the NIH
announced an expansion of the TCGA program with the aim to
produce genomic data sets for at least 20 to 25 cancers during the
next few years.
The ICGC was formed in 2008 to coordinate the generation
of comprehensive catalogs of genomic abnormalities in tumors
from 50 different cancer types or subtypes that are of clinical and
societal importance across the world.130 The project aims to perform systematic studies of over 25,000 cancer genomes at the genomic level and integrate this information with epigenomic and
transcriptomic studies of the same cases as well as with clinical
features of patients. At present, there are a total of 69 committed
projects involving at least 16 different countries coordinated by

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 1 The Cancer Genome

15

TA B L E 1 . 2
Computational Tools and Databases Useful for Cancer Genome Analyses

Alignment

Tool/Database

URL

a

http://maq.sourceforge.net

Maq

Burrows-Wheeler Aligner (BWA)b
Mutation calling

http://bio-bwa.sourceforge.net

c

SNVMix

http://www.bcgsc.ca/platform/bioinfo/software/
SNVMix

SAMtoolsd

http://samtools.sourceforge.net

VarScane

http://varscan.sourceforge.net

f

MuTect

http://www.broadinstitute.org/cancer/cga/mutect

Indel calling

Pindelg

http://gmt.genome.wustl.edu/pindel/current/

Copy number analysis

CBSh

http://www.bioconductor.org
i

SegSeq

Functional effect

http://www.broadinstitute.org/cgi-bin/cancer/
publications/pub_paper.cgi?mode=view&paper_
id=182

SIFTj

http://sift.jcvi.org/
k

http://genetics.bwh.harvard.edu/pph2

PolyPhen-2
Visualization

CIRCOSl

http://mkweb.bcgsc.ca/circos
m

Repository

Integrative Genomics Viewer (IGV)

http://www.broadinstitute.org/igv

Catalogue of Somatic Mutations in Cancer (COSMIC)n

http://www.sanger.ac.uk/genetics/CGP/cosmic

o

Cancer Genome Project (CGP)

http://www.sanger.ac.uk/genetics/CGP

dbSNPp

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/SNP
q

Gene Ranker

http://cbio.mskcc.org/tcga-generanker/

a

Li H, Durbin R. Fast and accurate short read alignment with Burrows–Wheeler transform. Bioinformatics 2009;25:1754–1760.
Li H, Durbin R. Fast and accurate long-read alignment with Burrows–Wheeler transform. Bioinformatics 2010;26:589–595.
Goya R, Sun MG, Morin RD, et al. SNVMix: predicting single nucleotide variants from next-generation sequencing of tumors. Bioinformatics 2010;26:730–736.
d
Li H, Handsaker B, Wysoker A, et al. The Sequence Alignment/Map format and SAMtools. Bioinformatics 2009;25:2078–2079.
e
Koboldt DC, Chen K, Wylie T, et al. VarScan: variant detection in massively parallel sequencing of individual and pooled samples. Bioinformatics 2009;25:2283–2285.
f
Cibulski K, Lawrence MS, Carter SL, et al. Sensitive detection of somatic point mutations in impure and heterogeneous cancer samples. Nat Biotechnol
2013;31:213–219.
g
Ye K, Schulz MH, Long Q, et al. Pindel: a pattern growth approach to detect break points of large deletions and medium sized insertions from paired-end short
reads. Bioinformatics 2009;25:2865–2871.
h
Venkatraman ES, Olshen AB. A faster circular binary segmentation algorithm for the analysis of array CGH data. Bioinformatics 2007;23:657–663.
i
Chiang DY, Getz G, Jaffe DB, et al. High-resolution mapping of copy-number alterations with massively parallel sequencing. Nature Methods 2009;6:99–103.
j
Ng PC, Henikoff S. Predicting deleterious amino acid substitutions. Genome Res 2001;11:863–874.
k
Idzhubei IA, Schmidt S, Peshkin L, et al. A method and server for predicting damaging missense mutations. Nature Methods 2010;7:248–249.
l
Krzywinski M, Schein J, Birol I, et al. Circos: an information aesthetic for comparative genomics. Genome Res 2009;19:1639–1645.
m
Robinson JT, Thorvaldsdóttir H, Winckler W, et al. Integrative Genomics Viewer. Nat Biotechnol 2011;29:24–26.
n
Forbes SA, Bhamra S, Dawson E, et al. The catalogue of somatic mutations in cancer (COSMIC). Curr Protoc Hum Genet 2008;Chapter 10:Unit 10.11.
o
Futreal PA, Coin L, Marshall M, et al. A census of human cancer genes. Nat Rev Cancer 2004;4:177–183.
p
Sherry ST, Ward MH, Kholodov M, et al. dbSNP: The NCBI Database of genetic variation. Nucleic Acids Res 2001;29:308–311.
q
The Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network. Comprehensive genomic characterization defines human glioblastoma genes and core pathways. Nature
2008;455:1061–1068.
Based on Meyerson M, Stacey G, Getz G. Advances in understanding cancer genomes through second generation sequencing. Nature Rev Genet 2010;11:
685–696, Table 2.
b
c

the ICGC. All of these projects deal with at least 500 samples per
cancer type from cancers affecting a variety of human organs and
tissues, including blood, the brain, the breast, the esophagus, the
kidneys, the liver, the oral cavity, the ovaries, the pancreas, the
prostate, the skin, and the stomach.130
All of these coordinated projects have already provided new
insights into the catalog of genes mutated in cancer and have unveiled specific signatures of the mutagenic mechanisms, including
carcinogen exposures or DNA-repair defects, implicated in the
development of different malignant tumors.83,84,87,131 Furthermore, these cancer genome studies have also contributed to
define clinically relevant subtypes of tumors for prognosis and
therapeutic management, and in some cases have identified
new targets and strategies for cancer treatment.74–76 The rapid
technological advances in DNA sequencing will likely drop
the costs of sequencing cancer genomes to a small fraction of

the current price and will allow researchers to overcome some
of the current limitations of these global sequencing efforts.
Hopefully, worldwide coordination of cancer genome projects,
including Pan-Cancer initiative, with those involving large-scale,
functional analyses of genes in both cellular and animal models
will likely provide us with the most comprehensive collection of
information generated to date about the causes and molecular
mechanisms of cancer.

THE GENOMIC LANDSCAPE OF CANCERS
Examining the overall distribution of the identified mutations redefined the cancer genome landscapes whereby the mountains
are the handful of commonly mutated genes and the hills represent the vast majority of genes that are infrequently mutated.

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

Category

16

Principles of Oncology

One of the most striking features of the tumor genomic landscape
is that it involves different sets of cancer genes that are mutated
in a tissue-specific fashion.132,133 To continue with the analogy,
the scenery is very different if we observe a colorectal, a lung,
or a breast tumor. This indicates that mutations in specific genes
cause tumors at specific sites, or are associated with specific stages
of development, cell differentiation, or tumorigenesis, despite
many of those genes being expressed in various fetal and adult
tissues. Moreover, different types of tumors follow specific genetic
pathways in terms of the combination of genetic alterations that it
must acquire. For example, no cancer outside the bowel has been
shown to follow the classic genetic pathway of colorectal tumorigenesis. Additionally, KRAS mutations are almost always present
in pancreatic cancers but are very rare or absent in breast cancers.
Similarly, BRAF mutations are present in 60% of melanomas, but
are very infrequent in lung cancers.1 Another intriguing feature is
that alterations in ubiquitous housekeeping genes, such as those
involved in DNA repair or energy production, occur only in particular types of tumors.
In addition to tissue specificity, the genomic landscape of tumors can also be associated with gender and hormonal status. For
example, HER2 amplification and PIK3C2A mutations, two genetic alterations associated with breast cancer development, are
correlated with the estrogen-receptor hormonal status.134 The molecular basis for the occurrence of cancer mutations in tissue- and
gender-specific profiles is still largely unknown. Organ-specific
expression profiles and cell-specific neoplastic transformation
requirements are often mentioned as possible causes for this
phenomenon. Identifying tissue and gender cancer mutations patterns is relevant because it may allow for the definition of individualized therapeutic avenues.

INTEGRATIVE ANALYSIS OF CANCER
GENOMICS
The implementation of novel high-throughput technologies is
generating an extraordinary amount of information on cancer
samples in many different ways other than those derived from
whole-exome or whole-genome sequencing. Accordingly, there
is a growing need to integrate genomic, epigenomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic landscapes from tumor samples, and then
linking this integrated information with clinical outcomes of
cancer patients. There are some examples of human malignancies in which this integrative approach has been already performed, such as for AML, glioblastoma, medulloblastoma, and
renal cell, colorectal, ovarian, endometrial, prostate, and breast
carcinomas.135–142 In these cases, the integration of wholeexome and whole-genome sequencing with studies involving
genomic DNA copy number arrays, DNA methylation, transcriptomic arrays, miRNA sequencing, and proteomic profiling
has contributed to improving the molecular classification of
complex and heterogeneous tumors. These integrative molecular analyses have also provided new insights into the mechanisms disrupted in each particular cancer type or subtype and
have facilitated the association of genomic information with
distinct clinical parameters of cancer patients and the discovery of novel therapeutic targets.143 Also in this regard, there has
been significant progress in the definition of the mechanisms
by which the cancer genome and epigenome influence each
other and cooperate to facilitate malignant transformation.144,145
Thus, many tumor-suppressor genes are inactivated by either
mutation or epigenetic silencing, and in some cases such as
colorectal carcinomas, both mechanisms work coordinately
to create a permissive environment for oncogenic transformation.146 Moreover, mutations in epigenetic regulators such as
DNA methyl transferases, chromatin remodelers, histones, and
histone modifiers, are very frequent events in many tumors,

including hepatocellular carcinomas, renal carcinomas leukemias, lymphomas, glioblastomas, and medulloblastomas. These
genetic alterations of epigenetic modulators cause widespread
transcriptomic changes, thereby amplifying the initial effect of
the mutational event at the cancer genome level.145
The recent availability of different platforms for integrative
cancer genome analyses will be very helpful in enabling the
classification, biologic characterization, and personalized clinical
management of human cancers (Table 1.3).144,147

THE CANCER GENOME AND THE NEW
TAXONOMY OF TUMORS
Deciphering the cancer genome has already impacted clinical
practice at multiple levels. On the one hand, it allowed for the
identification of new cancer genes such as IDH1, a gene involved
in glioma, which was discovered recently (see previous), and on
the other hand, it is redesigning the taxonomy of tumors.
Until the genomic revolution, tumors had been classified
based on two criteria: their localization (site of occurrence) and
their appearance (histology). These criteria are also currently used
as primary determinants of prognosis and to establish the best
treatments. For many decades, it has been known that patients
with histologically similar tumors have different clinical outcomes. Furthermore, tumors that cannot be distinguished based
on an histologic analysis can respond very differently to identical
therapies.148
It is becoming increasingly clear that the frequency and distribution of mutations affecting cancer genes can be used to redefine the histology-based taxonomy of a given tumor type. Lung
and colorectal tumors represent paradigmatic examples. Genomic
analyses led to the identification of activating mutations in the
receptor tyrosine kinase EGFR in lung adenocarcinomas.149 The
occurrence of EGFR mutations molecularly defines a subtype of
non–small-cell lung cancers (NSCLC) that occur mainly in nonsmoking women, that tend to have a distinctly enhanced prognosis, and that typically respond to epidermal growth factor receptor
(EGFR)-targeted therapies.150–152 Similarly, the recent discovery
of the EML4-ALK fusion identifies yet another subset of NSCLC
that is clearly distinct from those that harbor EGFR mutations,
that have distinct epidemiologic and biologic features, and that
respond to ALK inhibitors.109,153
The second example is colorectal cancers (CRC), the tumor
type for which the genomic landscape has been refined with the
highest accuracy. CRCs can be clearly categorized according to
the mutational profile of the genes involved in the KRAS pathway (Fig. 1.10). It is now known that KRAS mutations occur in
approximately 40% of CRCs. Another subtype of CRC (approximately 10%) harbors mutations in BRAF, the immediate downstream effectors of KRAS.10
In CRCs and other tumor types, KRAS and BRAF mutations
are known to be mutually exclusive. The mutual exclusivity pattern indicates that these genes operate in the same signaling pathway. Large epidemiologic studies have shown that the prognosis
of tumors harboring wild-type KRAS/BRAF genes is distinct, and
typically more favorable, than that of the mutated ones.154,155 Of
note, KRAS and BRAF mutations have been recently shown to
impair responsiveness to the anti-EGFR monoclonal antibodies
therapies in CRC patients.156–158 Clearly distinct subgroups can be
genetically identified in both NSCLCs and CRCs with respect to
prognosis and response to therapy. It is likely that as soon as the genomic landscapes of other tumor types are defined, molecular subgroups like those described previously will also become defined.
Genotyping tumor tissue in search of somatic genetic alterations for actionable information has become routine practice in
clinical oncology. The genetic profile of solid tumors is currently
obtained from surgical or biopsy specimens. As the techniques

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Webservice

TCGA

ENCODE
TCGA and
ICGC
GEO and
TCGA
ICGC
User
defined
TCGA
ENCODE
User
defined

EpiGRAPH

Catalogue of Somatic Mutations in
Cancer (COSMIC)

PCmtl, MAGIA, miRvar, CoMeTa, etc.*

ICGC

Genomatix

Caleydo

Integrative Genomics Viewer (IGV)

iCluster and iCluster Plus

Webservice

Tool

Tool

Tool

Tool

Webservice

Webservice

Webservice

Webservice

Webservice

✓
✓

✓
✓

✓
✓

—

—
—
—
—
✓
✓
—

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓
—
✓

—

—

—

—

—

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓
✓

—

✓

—

✓
✓

✓

Chromosomal
Region Search

Gene
Search

—

Upload
of Data
Possible

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

—

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

mRNA
Expression

—

✓

✓

✓

✓

—

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

SNV

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

—

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

CNV

—

✓

✓

✓

—

—

—

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

—

Methylation

—

—

✓

—

—

✓

—

—

—

—

✓

—

—

—

miRNA
Expression

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

✓

Protein

—

—

✓

✓

—

✓

—

—

—

—

—

✓

✓

✓

Pathways

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

* Web Site with links for integrated analysis of microRNA and mRNA expression.
CNV, copy-number variation; ENCODE, Encyclopedia of DNA Elements; ICGC, the International Cancer Genome Consortium; GDAC, Genomic Data Analysis Center; GEO, Gene Expression Omnibus; miRNA, microRNA;
SNV, single-nucleotide variation; TCGA, The Cancer Genome Atlas; USCS, University of California, Santa Cruz;
Based on Plass C, Pfister SM, Lindroth AM, et al. Mutations in regulators of the epigenome and their connections to global chromatin patterns in cancer. Nat Rev Genet 2013;14:765–780, Table 1.

TCGA
ENCODE
and
ROADMAP

The Cancer Genome Workbench

EpiExplorer

ENCODE
UCSC

WashU Epigenome Browser

UCSC Cancer Genomics Browser

Webservice

Webservice
Webservice

TCGA

cBioPortal for Cancer Genomics

PARADIGM, Broad GDAC Firehose

Bioinformatic Tool or Webservices

Webservice
or Tool

Database
Used

Useful Information for the Description and Management of Cancer

TA B L E 1 . 3

Chapter 1 The Cancer Genome

17

18

Principles of Oncology

Responder (15%)

KRAS/PIK3CA/PTEN (3%)

KRAS amplification (1%)

KRAS-NRAS (35–45%)

BRAF/PIK3CA/PTEN (5%)

MET amplification (2%)

BRAF (5–10%)

HER2 amplification (3%)

Non responder (16%)

PIK3CA and/or PTEN (15%)

Figure 1.10 Graphic representation of a cohort of 100 patients with colorectal cancer treated with cetuximab or panitumumab. The genetic milieu of
individual tumors and their impacts on the clinical response are listed. KRAS, BRAF, and PIK3CA somatic mutations as well as loss of PTEN protein
expression are indicated according to different color codes. Molecular alterations mutually exclusive or coexisting in individual tumors are indicated using
different color variants. The relative frequencies at which the molecular alterations occur in colorectal cancers are described. (Redrawn from Bardelli A,
Siena S. Molecular mechanisms of resistance to cetuximab and panitumumab in colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1254–1261.)

that have enabled us to analyze tumor tissues become ever more
sophisticated, we have realized the limitations of this approach.
As previously discussed, cancers are heterogeneous, with different
areas of the same tumor showing different genetic profiles (i.e.,
intratumoral heterogeneity); likewise, heterogeneity exists between metastases within the same patient (i.e., intermetastatic
heterogeneity).159 A tissue section (or a biopsy) from one part of
a solitary tumor will miss the molecular intratumoral as well as
intermetastatic heterogeneity. To capture tumor heterogeneity,
techniques that are capable of interrogating the genetic landscapes
of the overall disease in a single patient are needed.
In 1948, the publication of a manuscript describing the presence of cell-free circulating DNA (cfDNA) in the blood of humans

offered—probably without realizing it—unprecedented opportunities in this area.160 Only recently, the full potential of this seminal discovery has been appreciated. Several groups have reported
that the analysis of circulating tumor DNA can, in principle, provide the same genetic information obtained from tumor tissue.161
The levels of cfDNA are typically higher in cancer patients than
healthy individuals, indicating that it is possible to screen for the
presence of disease through a simple blood test. Furthermore, the
specific detection of tumor-derived cfDNA has been shown to
correlate with tumor burden, which changes in response to treatment or surgery.162–164
Although the detection of ctDNA has remarkable potential,
it is also challenging for several reasons. The first is the need

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

to discriminate DNA released from tumor cells (ctDNA) from
circulating normal DNA. Discerning ctDNA from normal
cfDNA is aided by the fact that tumor DNA is defined by the
presence of mutations. These somatic mutations, commonly
single base pair substitutions, are present only in the genomes of
cancer cells or precancerous cells and are present in the DNA
of normal cells of the same individual. Accordingly, ctDNA offers exquisite specificity as a biomarker. Unfortunately, cfDNA
derived from tumor cells often represents a very small fraction
(<1%) of the total cfDNA, thus limiting the applicability of the
approach. The development and refinement of next-generation
sequencing strategies as well as recently developed digital PCR
techniques have made it possible to define rare mutant variants
in complex mixtures of DNA. Using these approaches, it is possible to detect point mutations, rearrangements, and gene copy
number changes in individual genes starting from a few milliliters of plasma.165 Very recently, several groups have opened
a new frontier by showing that exome analyses can also be
performed from circulating DNA extracted from the blood of
cancer patients.166
The detection of tumor-specific genetic alterations in patients’ blood (often referred to as liquid biopsies) has several
applications in the field of oncology, which are summarized
as follows. Analyses of cfDNA can be used to genotype tumors
when a tissue sample is not available or is difficult to obtain.
Circulating tumor DNA fragments contain the identical genetic defects as the tumor themselves, thus the blood can reveal
tumor point mutations (EGFR, KRAS, BRAF, PIK3CA), rearrangements (e.g., EML4-ALK), as well as tumor amplifications
(MET).167–169 Liquid biopsies may also be useful in monitoring
tumor burden—a central aspect in the management of patients
with cancer that is typically assessed with imaging. In this regard, several investigational studies have shown that ctDNA can
be a surrogate for tumor burden and that, much like viral load
changes (e.g., HIV viral load), levels of ctDNA correspond with
clinical course. Another application of ctDNA is the detection of
minimal residual disease following surgery or therapy with curative intent.163 Finally, liquid biopsies can be used to monitor the
genomic drift (clonal evolution) of tumors upon treatment.166 In
this setting, the analysis of ctDNA in plasma samples obtained
pretreatment, during, and posttreatment can lead to an understanding of the mechanisms of primary and, especially, acquired
resistance to therapies.170,171
Importantly, the advances in sequencing technologies have
made the idea of personalized treatment of cancer a reality, which is
most evident in the field of adoptive cell therapy (ACT). Although
already a treatment in use, the ability to use a patient’s autologous tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) is in position to benefit
greatly from advances in sequencing technologies. A recent study
demonstrated this when whole-exome data, along with a major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-binding algorithm, were utilized
to identify candidate tumor epitopes that are recognized by the
patients’ TILs.172 This study should allow for future work in which
the information obtained from the direct sequencing of a patient’s
tumor can quickly be used to generate tumor-reactive T cells that
can then be used for a personalized treatment.
In conclusion, the taxonomy of tumors is being rewritten using
the presence of genetic lesions as major criteria. Genome-based
information will improve the diagnosis and will be used to determine personalized therapeutic regimens based on the genetic
landscape of individual tumors.

CANCER GENOMICS AND DRUG
RESISTANCE
Cancer genomics has dramatically impacted disease management,
because its application is helping researchers determine which

19

patients are likely to benefit from which drug. As discussed in great
detail in Chapter 22, good examples for such treatment include
targeted therapy using imatinib for chronic myeloid leukemia
(CML) patients and the use of gefitinib and erlotinib for NSCLC
patients.
The key to the successful development and application of
anticancer agents is a better understanding of the effect of the
therapeutic regimens and of resistance mechanisms that may
develop. In most tumor types, a fraction of patients’ tumors are
refractory to therapies (intrinsic resistance). Even if an initial
response to therapies is obtained, the vast majority of tumors
subsequently become refractory (i.e., acquired resistance), and
patients eventually succumb to disease progression. Therefore,
secondary resistance should be regarded as a key obstacle to
treatment progress. The analysis of the cancer genome represents a powerful tool both for the identification of chemotherapeutic signatures as well as to understand resistance mechanisms
to therapeutic agents. Examples for each of these are described
as follows.
An important application of systematic sequencing experiments is the identification of the effects of chemotherapy on the
cancer genome. For example, gliomas that recur after temozolomide treatment have been shown to harbor large numbers of mutations with a signature typical of a DNA alkylating agent.173,174
Because these alterations were detected using Sanger sequencing,
which as described previously has limited sensitivity, the data suggested that the detected alterations were clonal. The model that
unfolds from this study indicates that although temozolomide has
limited efficacy, almost all of the cells in a glioma respond to the
drug. However, a single cell that was resistant to the chemotherapy
proliferated and formed a cell clone. Later genomic analyses of the
cell clone allowed for the identification of the underlying mutated
resistance genes.173,174
Single-molecule–targeted therapy is almost always followed
by acquired drug resistance.175–177 Genomic analyses can be successfully exploited to decipher resistance mechanisms to such
inhibitors. A few paradigmatic examples are presented as follows,
which will be discussed extensively in other chapters. Despite the
effectiveness of gefitinib and erlotinib in EGFR mutant cases of
NSCLC,178 drug resistance develops within 6 to 12 months after
the initiation of therapy. The underlying reason for this resistance was identified as a secondary mutation in EGFR exon 20,
T790M, which is detectable in 50% of patients who relapse.179–181
Importantly, some studies have shown the mutation to be present
before the patient was treated with the drug,182,183 suggesting that
exposure to the drug selected for these cells.184 Because the drugresistant EGFR mutation is structurally analogous to the mutated
gatekeeper residue T315I in BCR-ABL, T670I in c-Kit, and
L1196M in EML4-ALK, which have been shown previously to
confer resistance to imatinib and other kinase inhibitors,176,185,186
this mechanism of resistance represents a general problem that
needs to be overcome.
A recent elegant study, which also represents the use of genomics in understanding drug-resistance mechanisms, focused on
the inhibition of activating BRAF (V600E) mutations, which
occur in 7% of human malignancies and in 60% of melanomas.9 Clinical trials using PLX4032, a novel class I RAF-selective
inhibitor, showed an 80% antitumor response rate in melanoma
patients with BRAF (V600E) mutations; however, cases of drug
resistance were observed.187 The use of microarray and sequencing
technologies showed that, in this case, the resistance was not due
to secondary mutations in BRAF, but due rather to either upregulation of PDGFRB or NRAS mutations.188
It was, however, the introduction of two anti-EGFR monoclonal antibodies, cetuximab and panitumumab, for the treatment
of metastatic colorectal cancer, that provided the largest body of
knowledge on the relationship between tumors’ genotypes and
the response to targeted therapies. The initial clinical analysis

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

Chapter 1 The Cancer Genome

20

Principles of Oncology

pointed out that only a fraction of metastatic CRC patients benefited from this novel treatment. Different from the NSCLC
paradigm, it was found that EGFR mutations do not play a major
role in the response. On the contrary, from the initial retrospective analysis, it became clear that somatic KRAS mutations,
thought to be present in 35% to 45% of metastatic colorectal
cancers, are important negative predictors of efficacy in patients
who are given panitumumab or cetuximab.156–158 Among tumors
carrying wild-type KRAS, mutations of BRAF or PIK3CA, or a
loss of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) expression may
also predict resistance to EGFR-targeted monoclonal antibodies,
although the latter biomarkers require further validation before
they can be incorporated into clinical practice. From these few
examples, it is clear that a future, deeper genomic understanding of targeted drug resistance is crucial to the effective development of additional as well as alternative therapies to overcome
this resistance.

PERSPECTIVES OF CANCER GENOME
ANALYSIS
The completion of the human genome project has marked a new
beginning in biomedical sciences. Because human cancer is a genetic disease, the field of oncology has been one of the first to be
impacted by this historic revolution. Knowledge of the sequence
and organization of the human genome allows for the systematic
analysis of the genetic alterations underlying the origin and evolution of tumors. High-throughput mutational profiling of common
tumors, including lung, skin, breast, and colorectal cancers, and
the application of next-generation sequencing to whole genome,
whole exome, and whole transcriptome of cancer samples has allowed substantial advances in the understanding of this disease
by facilitating the detection of all main types of somatic cancer
genome alterations. These have also led to historical results, such
as the identification of genetic alterations that are likely to be the
major drivers of these diseases.
However, the genetic landscape of cancers is by no means complete, and what has been learned so far has raised new and exciting
questions that must be addressed. There are still important technical challenges for the detection of somatic mutations.60 Clinical
tumor samples often contain large amounts of nonmalignant cells,
which makes the identification of mutations in cancer genomes
more challenging when compared with similar analyses of peripheral blood samples for germ-line genome studies. Moreover, the
genomic instability inherent to cancer development and progression largely increases the complexity and diversity of genomic alterations of malignant tumors, making it necessary to distinguish
between driver and passenger mutations. Likewise, the fact that
malignant tumors are genetically heterogeneous and contain several clones simultaneously growing within the same tumor mass
raises additional questions regarding the quality of the information
currently derived from cancer genomes. Hopefully, in the near
future, advances in third-generation sequencing technologies will
make it feasible to obtain high-quality sequence data of a genome
isolated from a single cell, an aspect of crucial relevance for cancer
research.
One of the next imperatives is the definition of the oncogenomic profile of all tumor types. In particular, the less common—although not less lethal—ones are still largely mysterious
to scientists and untreatable to clinicians. For some of these diseases, few new therapeutically amenable molecular targets have
been discovered in the past years. For example, the identification of drugable genetic lesions associated with pancreatic and
ovarian cancers could help define new therapeutic strategies
for these aggressive diseases. To achieve this, detailed oncogenomic maps of the corresponding tumors must be drafted. The
latter will hopefully be completed in the coming years, thanks to

the systematic cancer genome projects that are presently being
performed.
Even in the case of common cancers, a lot of genomic profiling efforts still lay ahead. For example, in a significant fraction of
breast and lung tumors, the mutations that are likely to be drivers
have not yet been found. This is not surprising considering that
even in these tumor types only a limited number of samples have
been systematically analyzed so far. Therefore, low incidence mutations that could represent potentially key therapeutic targets in a
subset of tumors might have escaped detection. Consequently, the
scaling up of the mutational profiling to large numbers of specimens for each tumor type is warranted.
Finally, understanding the cellular properties imparted by
the hundreds of recently discovered cancer alleles is another
area that must be developed. As a matter of fact, compared to the
genomic discovery stage, the functional validation of putative
novel cancer alleles, despite their potential clinical relevance,
is substantially lagging behind. To achieve this, high-throughput functional studies in model systems that accurately recapitulate the genetic alterations found in human cancer must be
developed.
To conclude, the eventual goal of profiling the cancer genome is not only to further understand the molecular basis
of the disease, but also to discover novel diagnostic and drug
targets. One might anticipate that the most immediate application of these new technologies will be noninvasive strategies for
early cancer detection. Considering that oncogenic mutations
are present only in cancer cells, screening for tumor-derived
mutant DNA in patients’ blood holds great potential and will
progressively substitute current biomarkers, which have poor
sensitivity and lack specificity.171 Further improvements in nextgeneration sequencing technologies are likely to reduce their
cost as well as make these analyses more facile in the future.
Once this happens, most cancer patients will undergo in-depth
genomic analyses as part of their initial evaluation and throughout their treatment. This will offer more precise diagnostic and
prognostic information, which will affect treatment decisions.
Although many challenges remain, the information gained
from next-generation sequencing platforms is laying a foundation for personalized medicine, in which patients are managed
with therapies that are tailored to the specific gene mutations
found in their tumors. Ultimately, these should lead to therapeutic successes similar to the ones attained for CML patients
with imatinib,189,190 melanoma patients with PLX4032,187 and
NSCLC patients with gefitinib and erlotinib.178 Clearly, this is
the absolute goal for all of this work.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported by the Intramural Research Programs
of the National Human Genome Research Institute, National
Institutes of Health, USA, YS is supported by the Henry Chanoch Krenter Institute for Biomedical Imaging and Genomics,
Louis and Fannie Tolz Collaborative Research Project, Dukler
Fund for Cancer Research, De Benedetti Foundation-Cherasco
1547, Peter and Patricia Gruber Awards, Gideon Hamburger,
Israel, Estate of Alice Schwarz-Gardos, Estate of John Hunter
and the Knell Family. YS is supported by the Israel Science
Foundation grant numbers 1604/13 and 877/13 and the ERC
(StG-335377). A.B. is supported by the European Communityís
Seventh Framework Programme under grant agreement no.
259015 COLTHERES, Associazione Italiana per la Ricerca sul
Cancro (AIRC) IG grant no. 12812 and Fondazione Piemontese per la Ricerca sul Cancro–ONLUS. C.L-O. is an Investigator of the Botin Foundation supported by grants from Ministerio
de Economía y Competitividad-Spain and Instituto de Salud
Carlos III (RTICC), Spain.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 1 The Cancer Genome

21

1. Vogelstein B, Kinzler KW. Cancer genes and the pathways they control. Nat
Med 2004;10:789–799.
2. Kinzler KW, Vogelstein B. Lessons from hereditary colon cancer. Cell 1996;
87:159–170.
3. International Human Genome Sequencing Consortium. Finishing the
euchromatic sequence of the human genome. Nature 2004;431:931–945.
4. Stehelin D, Varmus HE, Bishop JM, et al. DNA related to the transforming
gene(s) of avian sarcoma viruses is present in normal avian DNA. Nature
1976;260:170–173.
5. Rous P. Transmission of a malignant new growth by means of a cell-free
filtrate. J Am Med Assoc 1911;56:198.
6. International HapMap Consortium. The International HapMap Project.
Nature 2003;426:89–96.
7. International HapMap Consortium. A haplotype map of the human genome. Nature 2005;437:1299–1320.
8. Sanger F, Nicklen S, Coulson AR. DNA sequencing with chain-terminating
inhibitors. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1977;74:5463–5467.
9. Davies H, Bignell GR, Cox C, et al. Mutations of the BRAF gene in human
cancer. Nature 2002;417:949–954.
10. Rajagopalan H, Bardelli A, Lengauer C, et al. Tumorigenesis: RAF/RAS
oncogenes and mismatch-repair status. Nature 2002;418:934.
11. Moodie SA, Wolfman A. The 3Rs of life: Ras, Raf and growth regulation.
Trends Genet 1994;10:44–48.
12. Hafen E, Dickson B, Brunner D, et al. Genetic dissection of signal transduction mediated by the sevenless receptor tyrosine kinase in Drosophila. Prog
Neurobiol 1994;42:287–292.
13. Bardelli A, Parsons DW, Silliman N, et al. Mutational analysis of the tyrosine
kinome in colorectal cancers. Science 2003;300:949.
14. Greenman C, Stephens P, Smith R, et al. Patterns of somatic mutation in
human cancer genomes. Nature 2007;446:153–158.
15. Samuels Y, Wang Z, Bardelli A, et al. High frequency of mutations of the
PIK3CA gene in human cancers. Science 2004;304:554.
16. Wang Z, Shen D, Parsons DW, et al. Mutational analysis of the tyrosine
phosphatome in colorectal cancers. Science 2004;304:1164–1166.
17. Vivanco I, Sawyers CL. The phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinase AKT pathway in
human cancer. Nat Rev Cancer 2002;2:489–501.
18. Broderick DK, Di C, Parrett TJ, et al. Mutations of PIK3CA in anaplastic oligodendrogliomas, high-grade astrocytomas, and medulloblastomas. Cancer
Res 2004;64:5048–5050.
19. Lee JW, Soung YH, Kim SY, et al. PIK3CA gene is frequently mutated in breast
carcinomas and hepatocellular carcinomas. Oncogene 2005;24:1477–1480.
20. Bachman KE, Argani P, Samuels Y, et al. The PIK3CA gene is mutated with
high frequency in human breast cancers. Cancer Biol Ther 2004;3:772–775.
21. Oda K, Stokoe D, Taketani Y, et al. High frequency of coexistent mutations of PIK3CA and PTEN genes in endometrial carcinoma. Cancer Res
2005;65:10669–10673.
22. Samuels Y, Waldman T. Oncogenic mutations of PIK3CA in human cancers. Curr Top Microbiol Immunol 2010;2:21–42.
23. Parsons DW, Wang TL, Samuels Y, et al. Colorectal cancer: mutations in a
signalling pathway. Nature 2005;436:792.
24. Lopez-Otin C, Overall CM. Protease degradomics: a new challenge for proteomics. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 2002;3:509–519.
25. Liotta LA, Tryggvason K, Garbisa S, et al. Metastatic potential correlates
with enzymatic degradation of basement membrane collagen. Nature
1980;284:67–68.
26. Lopez-Otin C, Hunter T. The regulatory crosstalk between kinases and proteases in cancer. Nat Rev Cancer 2010;10:278–292.
27. Egeblad M, Werb Z. New functions for the matrix metalloproteinases in cancer progression. Nat Rev Cancer 2002;2:161–174.
28. Lopez-Otin C, Matrisian LM. Emerging roles of proteases in tumour suppression. Nat Rev Cancer 2007;7:800–808.
29. Wood LD, Parsons DW, Jones S, et al. The genomic landscapes of human
breast and colorectal cancers. Science 2007;318:1108–1113.
30. Palavalli LH, Prickett TD, Wunderluch JR, et al. Analysis of the matrix
metalloproteinase family reveals that MMP8 is often mutated in melanoma.
Nat Genet 2009;41:518–520.
31. Lopez-Otin C, Palavalli LH, Samuels Y. Protective roles of matrix metalloproteinases: from mouse models to human cancer. Cell Cycle 2009;8:3657–3662.
32. Hanahan D, Weinberg RA. The hallmarks of cancer. Cell 2000;100:57–70.
33. Teitz T, Wei T, Valentine MB, et al. Caspase 8 is deleted or silenced preferentially in childhood neuroblastomas with amplification of MYCN. Nat Med
2000;6:529–535.
34. Mandruzzato S, Brasseur F, Andry G, et al. A CASP-8 mutation recognized
by cytolytic T lymphocytes on a human head and neck carcinoma. J Exp
Med 1997;186:785–793.
35. Soung YH, Lee JW, Kim SY, et al. CASPASE-8 gene is inactivated by somatic
mutations in gastric carcinomas. Cancer Res 2005;65:815–821.
36. Fraile JM, Quesada V, Rodríguez D, et al. Deubiquitinases in cancer: new
functions and therapeutic options. Oncogene 2012;31:2373–2388.
37. Bignell GR, Warren W, Seal S, et al. Identification of the familial cylindromatosis tumour-suppressor gene. Nat Genet 2000;25:160–165.

38. Schmitz R, Hansmann ML, Bohle V, et al. TNFAIP3 (A20) is a tumor suppressor gene in Hodgkin lymphoma and primary mediastinal B cell lymphoma. J Exp Med 2009;206:981–989.
39. Compagno M, Lim WK, Grunn A, et al. Mutations of multiple genes
cause deregulation of NF-kappaB in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Nature
2009;459:717–721.
40. Kato M, Sanada M, Kato I, et al. Frequent inactivation of A20 in B-cell lymphomas. Nature 2009;459:712–716.
41. Novak U, Rinaldi A, Kwee I, et al. The NF-kappa B negative regulator TNFAIP3 (A20) is inactivated by somatic mutations and genomic deletions in
marginal zone lymphomas. Blood 2009;113: 4918–4921.
42. Harbour JW, Onken MD, Roberson ED, et al. Frequent mutation of BAP1
in metastasizing uveal melanomas. Science 2010;330:1410–1413.
43. Carbone M, Yang H, Pass HI, et al. BAP1 and cancer. Nat Rev Cancer 2013;
13:153–159.
44. Sjöblom T, Jones S, Wood LD, et al. The consensus coding sequences of
human breast and colorectal cancers. Science 2006;314:268–274.
45. Jones S, Zhang X, Parsons DW, et al. Core signaling pathways in human pancreatic cancers revealed by global genomic analyses. Science 2008;321:1801–1806.
46. Parsons DW, Jones S, Zhang X, et al. An integrated genomic analysis of human glioblastoma multiforme. Science 2008;321:1807–1812.
47. Jones S, Wang TL, Shih leM, et al. Frequent mutations of chromatin remodeling gene ARID1A in ovarian clear cell carcinoma. Science 2010;330:228–231.
48. Parsons DW, Li M, Zhang X, et al. The genetic landscape of the childhood
cancer medulloblastoma. Science 2011;331:435–439.
49. Yan H, Parsons DW, Jin G, et al. IDH1 and IDH2 mutations in gliomas.
N Engl J Med 2009;360:765–773.
50. Bleeker FE, Lamba S, Leenstra S, et al. IDH1 mutations at residue p.R132
(IDH1(R132)) occur frequently in high-grade gliomas but not in other solid
tumors. Hum Mutat 2009;30:7–11.
51. Hartmann C, Meyer J, Balss J, et al. Type and frequency of IDH1 and IDH2
mutations are related to astrocytic and oligodendroglial differentiation and
age: a study of 1,010 diffuse gliomas. Acta Neuropathol 2009;118:469–474.
52. Hayden JT, Frühwald MC, Hasselblatt M, et al. Frequent IDH1 mutations in
supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors (sPNET) of adults but not
children. Cell Cycle 2009;8:1806–1807.
53. Ichimura K, Pearson DM, Kocialkowski S, et al. IDH1 mutations are present
in the majority of common adult gliomas but rare in primary glioblastomas.
Neuro Oncol 2009;11:341–347.
54. Kang MR, Kim MS, Oh JE, et al. Mutational analysis of IDH1 codon 132 in
glioblastomas and other common cancers. Int J Cancer 2009;125:353–355.
55. Watanabe T, Nobusawa S, Kleihues P, et al. IDH1 mutations are early events
in the development of astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas. Am J Pathol
2009;174:1149–1153.
56. Mardis ER, Ding L, Dooling DJ, et al. Recurring mutations found by sequencing an acute myeloid leukemia genome. N Engl J Med 2009;361:1058–1066.
57. Green A, Beer P. Somatic mutations of IDH1 and IDH2 in the leukemic transformation of myeloproliferative neoplasms. N Engl J Med 2010;
362:369–370.
58. Gross S, Cairns RA, Minden Md, et al. Cancer-associated metabolite 2-hydroxyglutarate accumulates in acute myelogenous leukemia with isocitrate
dehydrogenase 1 and 2 mutations. J Exp Med 2010;207:339–344.
59. Mardis ER, Wilson RK. Cancer genome sequencing: a review. Hum Mol
Genet 2009;18:R163–R168.
60. Meyerson M, Gabriel S, Getz G. Advances in understanding cancer genomes
through second-generation sequencing. Nat Rev Genet 2010;11:685–696.
61. Metzker ML. Sequencing technologies - the next generation. Nat Rev Genet
2010;11:31–46.
62. Bell DW. Our changing view of the genomic landscape of cancer. J Pathol
2010;220:231–243.
63. Campbell PJ, Pleasance ED, Stephens PJ, et al. Subclonal phylogenetic
structures in cancer revealed by ultra-deep sequencing. Proc Natl Acad Sci U
S A 2008;105:13081–13086.
64. Kidd JM, Cooper GM, Donahue WF, et al. Mapping and sequencing of
structural variation from eight human genomes. Nature 2008;453:56–64.
65. Drmanac R, Sparks AB, Callow MJ, et al. Human genome sequencing using unchained base reads on self-assembling DNA nanoarrays. Science 2010;
327:78–81.
66. Clarke J, Wu HC, Jayasinghe L, et al. Continuous base identification for
single-molecule nanopore DNA sequencing. Nat Nanotechnol 2009;4:
265–270.
67. Schadt EE, Turner S, Kasarskis A. A window into third-generation sequencing. Hum Mol Genet 2010;19:R227–R240.
68. Dressman D, Yan H, Traverso G, et al. Transforming single DNA molecules
into fluorescent magnetic particles for detection and enumeration of genetic
variations. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2003;100:8817–8822.
69. Fedurco M, Romieu A, Williams S, et al. BTA, a novel reagent for DNA
attachment on glass and efficient generation of solid-phase amplified DNA
colonies. Nucleic Acids Res 2006;34:e22.
70. Harris TD, Buzby PR, Babcock H, et al. Single-molecule DNA sequencing
of a viral genome. Science 2008;320:106–109.

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

R E F E R E N C E S

22

Principles of Oncology

71. Morozova O, Hirst M, Marra MA. Applications of new sequencing technologies for transcriptome analysis. Annu Rev Genomics Hum Genet 2009;10:
135–151.
72. Pop M, Salzberg SL. Bioinformatics challenges of new sequencing technology. Trends Genet 2008;24:142–149.
73. Ley TJ, Mardis ER, Ding L, et al. DNA sequencing of a cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukaemia genome. Nature 2008;456:66–72.
74. Garraway LA, Lander ES. Lessons from the cancer genome. Cell 2013;15:
17–37.
75. Vogelstein B, Papadopoulos N, Velculescu VE, et al. Cancer genome landscapes. Science 2013;339:1546–1558.
76. Watson IR, Takahashi K, Futreal PA, et al. Emerging patterns of somatic
mutations in cancer. Nat Rev Genet 2013;14:703–718.
77. Campbell PJ, Yachida S, Mudie LJ, et al. The patterns and dynamics of genomic instability in metastatic pancreatic cancer. Nature 2010;467:1109–1113.
78. Lee W, Jiang Z, Liu J, et al. The mutation spectrum revealed by paired
genome sequences from a lung cancer patient. Nature 2010;465:473–477.
79. Marcucci G, Maharry K, Wu YZ, et al. IDH1 and IDH2 gene mutations
identify novel molecular subsets within de novo cytogenetically normal acute
myeloid leukemia: a Cancer and Leukemia Group B study. J Clin Oncol
2010;28:2348–2355.
80. Paschka P, Schlenk RF, Gaidzik VI, et al. IDH1 and IDH2 mutations are
frequent genetic alterations in acute myeloid leukemia and confer adverse
prognosis in cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia with NPM1
mutation without FLT3 internal tandem duplication. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:
3636–3643.
81. Shah SP, Morin Rd, Khattra J, et al. Mutational evolution in a lobular breast
tumour profiled at single nucleotide resolution. Nature 2009;461:809–813.
82. Yachida S, Jones S, Bozic I, et al. Distant metastasis occurs late during the
genetic evolution of pancreatic cancer. Nature 2010;467:1114–1117.
83. Pleasance ED, Cheetham RK, Stephens PJ, et al. A comprehensive catalogue of
somatic mutations from a human cancer genome. Nature 2010;463:191–196.
84. Pleasance ED, Stephens PJ, O’Meara S, et al. A small-cell lung cancer genome
with complex signatures of tobacco exposure. Nature 2010;463:184–190.
85. Ding L, Ellis MJ, Li S, et al. Genome remodelling in a basal-like breast
cancer metastasis and xenograft. Nature 2010;464:999–1005.
86. Ley TJ, Ding L, Walter MJ, et al. DNMT3A mutations in acute myeloid
leukemia. N Engl J Med 2010;363:2424–2433.
87. Alexandrov LB, Nik-Zainal S, Wedge DC, et al. Signatures of mutational
processes in human cancer. Nature 2013;500:415–421.
88. Ward PS, Patel J, Wise DR, et al. The common feature of leukemia-associated IDH1 and IDH2 mutations is a neomorphic enzyme activity converting
alpha-ketoglutarate to 2-hydroxyglutarate. Cancer Cell 2010;17:225–234.
89. Jones SJ, Laskin J, Lu YY, et al. Evolution of an adenocarcinoma in response
to selection by targeted kinase inhibitors. Genome Biol 2010;11:R82.
90. Navin N, Kendall J, Troge J, et al. Tumour evolution inferred by single-cell
sequencing. Nature 2011;472:90–94.
91. Vanharanta S, Massague J. Origins of metastatic traits. Cancer Cell 2013;
24:410–421.
92. Huang FW, Hodis E, Xu MJ, et al. Highly recurrent TERT promoter mutations in human melanoma. Science 2013;339:957–959.
93. Horn S, Figl A, Rachakonda PS, et al. TERT promoter mutations in familial
and sporadic melanoma. Science 2013;339:959–961.
94. Ying Z, Li Y, Wu J, et al. Loss of miR-204 expression enhances glioma migration and stem cell-like phenotype. Cancer Res 2013;73:990–999.
95. Liang YJ, Wang QY, Zhou CX, et al. MiR-124 targets Slug to regulate epithelial-mesenchymal transition and metastasis of breast cancer. Carcinogenesis
2013;34:713–722.
96. Cooper C, Guo J, Yan Y, et al. Increasing the relative expression of endogenous non-coding Steroid Receptor RNA Activator (SRA) in human
breast cancer cells using modified oligonucleotides. Nucleic Acids Res
2009;37:4518–4531.
97. Stephens PJ, Greenman CD, Fu B, et al. Massive genomic rearrangement
acquired in a single catastrophic event during cancer development. Cell
2011;144:27–40.
98. Korbel JO, Campbell PJ. Criteria for inference of chromothripsis in cancer
genomes. Cell 2013;152:1226–1236.
99. Baca SC, Prandi D, Lawrence MS, et al. Punctuated evolution of prostate
cancer genomes. Cell 2013;153:666–677.
100. Turner EH, Lee C, Ng SB, et al. Massively parallel exon capture and libraryfree resequencing across 16 genomes. Nat Methods 2009;6:315–316.
101. Gnirke A, Melnikov A, Maguire J, et al. Solution hybrid selection with ultralong oligonucleotides for massively parallel targeted sequencing. Nat Biotechnol 2009;27:182–189.
102. Levin JZ, Berger MF, Adiconis X, et al. Targeted next-generation sequencing
of a cancer transcriptome enhances detection of sequence variants and novel
fusion transcripts. Genome Biol 2009;10:R115.
103. Lawrence MS, Stojanov P, Polak P, et al. Mutational heterogeneity in cancer
and the search for new cancer-associated genes. Nature 2013;499:214–218.
104. Kandoth C, McLellan MD, Vandin F, et al. Mutational landscape and significance across 12 major cancer types. Nature 2013;502:333–339.
105. Gartner JJ, Parker SC, Prickett TD, et al. Whole-genome sequencing identifies a recurrent functional synonymous mutation in melanoma. Proc Natl
Acad Sci U S A 2013;110:13481–13486.

106. Stegh AH, Brennan C, Mahoney JA, et al. Glioma oncoprotein Bcl2L12 inhibits the p53 tumor suppressor. Genes Dev 2010;24:2194–2204.
107. Mullaney JM, Mills RE, Pittard WS, et al. Small insertions and deletions
(INDELs) in human genomes. Hum Mol Genet 2010;19:R131–R136.
108. Tomlins SA, Rhodes DR, Perner S, et al. Recurrent fusion of TMPRSS2 and
ETS transcription factor genes in prostate cancer. Science 2005;310:644–648.
109. Soda M, Choi YL, Enomoto M, et al. Identification of the transforming EML4-ALK fusion gene in non-small-cell lung cancer. Nature 2007;
448:561–566.
110. Palanisamy N, Ateeq B, Kalyana-Sundaram S, et al. Rearrangements of the
RAF kinase pathway in prostate cancer, gastric cancer and melanoma. Nat
Med 2010;16:793–798.
111. Leary RJ, Kinde I, Diehl F, et al. Development of personalized tumor biomarkers using massively parallel sequencing. Sci Transl Med 2010;2:20ra14.
112. Maher CA, Kumar-Sinha C, Cao X, et al. Transcriptome sequencing to detect gene fusions in cancer. Nature 2009;458:97–101.
113. Stephens PJ, McBride DJ, Lin ML, et al. Complex landscapes of somatic rearrangement in human breast cancer genomes. Nature 2009;462:1005–1010.
114. Feng H, Shuda M, Chang Y, et al. Clonal integration of a polyomavirus in
human Merkel cell carcinoma. Science 2008;319:1096–1100.
115. Herner A, Sauliunaite D, Michalski CW, et al. Glutamate increases pancreatic cancer cell invasion and migration via AMPA receptor activation and
Kras-MAPK signaling. Int J Cancer 2011;129:2349–2359.
116. Wei X, Walia V, Lin JC, et al. Exome sequencing identifies GRIN2A as frequently mutated in melanoma. Nat Genet 2011;43:442–446.
117. Prickett TD, Wei X, Cardenas-Navia I, et al. Exon capture analysis of G
protein-coupled receptors identifies activating mutations in GRM3 in melanoma. Nat Genet 2011;43:1119–1126.
118. Krauthammer M, Kong Y, Ha BH, et al. Exome sequencing identifies recurrent somatic RAC1 mutations in melanoma. Nat Genet 2012;44:1006–1014.
119. Davies H, Hunter C, Smith R, et al. Somatic mutations of the protein kinase
gene family in human lung cancer. Cancer Res 2005;65:7591–7595.
120. Bozic I, Antal T, Ohtsuki H, et al. Accumulation of driver and passenger mutations during tumor progression. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2010;107:18545–18550.
121. Parmigiani G, Boca S, Lin J, et al. Design and analysis issues in genome-wide
somatic mutation studies of cancer. Genomics 2009;93:17–21.
122. Kaminker JS, Zhang Y, Waugh A, et al. Distinguishing cancer-associated missense mutations from common polymorphisms. Cancer Res 2007;67:465–473.
123. Futreal PA. Backseat drivers take the wheel. Cancer Cell 2007;12:493–494.
124. Greenman C, Wooster R, Futreal PA, et al. Statistical analysis of pathogenicity of somatic mutations in cancer. Genetics 2006;173:2187–2198.
125. Baudot A, Real FX, Izarzugaza JM, et al. From cancer genomes to cancer
models: bridging the gaps. EMBO Rep 2009;10:359–366.
126. Carter H, Chen S, Isik L, et al. Cancer-specific high-throughput annotation
of somatic mutations: computational prediction of driver missense mutations. Cancer Res 2009;69:6660–6667.
127. Ng PC, Henikoff S. SIFT: Predicting amino acid changes that affect protein
function. Nucleic Acids Res 2003;31:3812–3814.
128. Kohli M, Rago C, Lengauer C, et al. Facile methods for generating human
somatic cell gene knockouts using recombinant adeno-associated viruses.
Nucleic Acids Res 2004;32:e3.
129. Downing JR, Wilson RK, Zhang J, et al. The Pediatric Cancer Genome
Project. Nat Genet 2012;44:619–622.
130. Hudson TJ, Anderson W, Artez A, et al. International network of cancer
genome projects. Nature 2010;464:993–998.
131. Bignell GR, Greenman CD, Davies H, et al. Signatures of mutation and
selection in the cancer genome. Nature 2010;463:893–898.
132. Sieber OM, Tomlinson SR, Tomlinson IP. Tissue, cell and stage specificity of
(epi)mutations in cancers. Nat Rev Cancer 2005;5:649–655.
133. Benvenuti S, Frattini M, Arena S, et al. PIK3CA cancer mutations display
gender and tissue specificity patterns. Hum Mutat 2008;29:284–288.
134. Karakas B, Bachman KE, Park BH. Mutation of the PIK3CA oncogene in
human cancers. Br J Cancer 2006;94:455–459.
135. Brennan CW, Werhaak RG, McKenna A, et al. The somatic genomic landscape of glioblastoma. Cell 2013;155:462–477.
136. Cancer Genome Atlas Network. Comprehensive molecular characterization
of human colon and rectal cancer. Nature 2012;487:330–337.
137. Cancer Genome Atlas Network. Comprehensive molecular portraits of
human breast tumours. Nature 2012;490:61–70.
138. Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network. Integrated genomic analyses of
ovarian carcinoma. Nature 2011;474:609–615.
139. Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network. Comprehensive molecular characterization of clear cell renal cell carcinoma. Nature 2013;499:43–49.
140. Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network. Integrated genomic characterization of endometrial carcinoma. Nature 2013;497:67–73.
141. Weischenfeldt J, Simon R, Feuerbach L, et al. Integrative genomic analyses
reveal an androgen-driven somatic alteration landscape in early-onset prostate cancer. Cancer Cell 2013;23:159–170.
142. Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network. Genomic and epigenomic
landscapes of adult de novo acute myeloid leukemia. N Engl J Med 2013;
368:2059–2074.
143. Dawson SJ, Rueda OM, Aparicio S, et al. A new genome-driven integrated
classification of breast cancer and its implications. EMBO J 2013;32:
617–628.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

144. Plass C, Pfister SM, Lindroth AM, et al. Mutations in regulators of the epigenome and their connections to global chromatin patterns in cancer. Nat
Rev Genet 2013;14:765–780.
145. Shen H, Laird PW. Interplay between the cancer genome and epigenome.
Cell 2013;153:38–55.
146. Yamamoto E, Suzuki H, Yamano HO, et al. Molecular dissection of premalignant colorectal lesions reveals early onset of the CpG island methylator
phenotype. Am J Pathol 2012;181:1847–1861.
147. Gao J, Aksoy BA, Dogrusoz U, et al. Integrative analysis of complex cancer
genomics and clinical profiles using the cBioPortal. Sci Signal 2013;6:pl1.
148. Bleeker FE, Bardelli A. Genomic landscapes of cancers: prospects for targeted therapies. Pharmacogenomics 2007;8:1629–1633.
149. Paez JG, Jänne PA, Lee JC, et al. EGFR mutations in lung cancer: correlation with clinical response to gefitinib therapy. Science 2004;304:1497–1500.
150. Ciardiello F, Tortora G. EGFR antagonists in cancer treatment. N Engl J
Med 2008;358:1160–1174.
151. Janku F, Stewart DJ, Kurzrock R. Targeted therapy in non-small-cell lung
cancer—is it becoming a reality? Nat Rev Clin Oncol 2010;7:401–414.
152. Pao W, Chmielecki J. Rational, biologically based treatment of EGFRmutant non-small-cell lung cancer. Nat Rev Cancer 2010;10:760–774.
153. Gerber DE, Minna JD. ALK inhibition for non-small cell lung cancer: from
discovery to therapy in record time. Cancer Cell 2010;18:548–551.
154. Andreyev HJ, Norman AR, Cunningham D, et al. Kirsten ras mutations in
patients with colorectal cancer: the multicenter “RASCAL” study. J Natl
Cancer Inst 1998;90:675–684.
155. Roth AD, Tejpar S, Delorenzi M, et al. Prognostic role of KRAS and BRAF
in stage II and III resected colon cancer: results of the translational study on
the PETACC-3, EORTC 40993, SAKK 60-00 trial. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:
466–474.
156. Bardelli A, Siena S. Molecular mechanisms of resistance to cetuximab and
panitumumab in colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1254–1261.
157. Siena S, Sartore-Bianchi A, Di Nicolantonio F, et al. Biomarkers predicting clinical outcome of epidermal growth factor receptor-targeted therapy in
metastatic colorectal cancer. J Natl Cancer Inst 2009;101:1308–1324.
158. Tejpar S, Bertagnolli M, Bosman F, et al. Prognostic and predictive biomarkers in resected colon cancer: current status and future perspectives for integrating genomics into biomarker discovery. Oncologist 2010;15:390–404.
159. Gerlinger M, Rowan AJ, Horswell S, et al. Intratumor heterogeneity and
branched evolution revealed by multiregion sequencing. N Engl J Med
2012;366:883–892.
160. Mandel P, Metais P. [Not Available]. C R Seances Soc Biol Fil 1948;142:
241–243.
161. Crowley E, Di Nicolantonio F, Loupakis F, et al. Liquid biopsy: monitoring
cancer-genetics in the blood. Nat Rev Clin Oncol 2013;10:472–484.
162. Diehl F, Li M, Dressman D, et al. Detection and quantification of mutations
in the plasma of patients with colorectal tumors. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
2005;102:16368–16373.
163. Diehl F, Schmidt K, Choti MA, et al. Circulating mutant DNA to assess
tumor dynamics. Nat Med 2008;14:985–990.
164. Frattini M, Gallino G, Signoroni S, et al. Quantitative and qualitative characterization of plasma DNA identifies primary and recurrent colorectal cancer. Cancer Lett 2008;263:170–181.
165. Chan KC, Jiang P, Zheng YW, et al. Cancer genome scanning in plasma:
detection of tumor-associated copy number aberrations, single-nucleotide
variants, and tumoral heterogeneity by massively parallel sequencing. Clin
Chem 2013;59:211–224.
166. Murtaza M, Dawson SJ, Tsui DW, et al. Non-invasive analysis of acquired resistance to cancer therapy by sequencing of plasma DNA. Nature 2013;497:
108–112.
167. Bardelli A, Corso S, Bertotti A, et al. Amplification of the MET receptor
drives resistance to anti-EGFR therapies in colorectal cancer. Cancer Discov
2013;3:658–673.

23

168. Higgins MJ, Jelovac D, Barnathan E, et al. Detection of tumor PIK3CA
status in metastatic breast cancer using peripheral blood. Clin Cancer Res
2012;18:3462–3469.
169. Leary RJ, Sausen M, Kinde I, et al. Detection of chromosomal alterations in
the circulation of cancer patients with whole-genome sequencing. Sci Transl
Med 2012;4:162ra154.
170. Misale S, Yaeger R, Hobor S, et al. Emergence of KRAS mutations and
acquired resistance to anti-EGFR therapy in colorectal cancer. Nature
2012;486:532–536.
171. Diaz LA Jr, Williams RT, Wu J, et al. The molecular evolution of acquired resistance to targeted EGFR blockade in colorectal cancers. Nature
2012;486:537–540.
172. Robbins PF, Lu YC, El-Gamil M, et al. Mining exomic sequencing data to
identify mutated antigens recognized by adoptively transferred tumor-reactive T cells. Nat Med 2013;19:747–752.
173. Hunter C, Smith R, Cahill DP, et al. A hypermutation phenotype and somatic MSH6 mutations in recurrent human malignant gliomas after
alkylator chemotherapy. Cancer Res 2006;66:3987–3991.
174. Cahill DP, Levine KK, Betensky RA, et al. Loss of the mismatch repair protein MSH6 in human glioblastomas is associated with tumor progression during temozolomide treatment. Clin Cancer Res 2007;13:2038–2045.
175. Engelman JA, Zejnullahu K, Mitsudomi T, et al. MET amplification leads
to gefitinib resistance in lung cancer by activating ERBB3 signaling. Science
2007;316:1039–1043.
176. Gorre ME, Mohmmed M, Ellwood K, et al. Clinical resistance to STI-571
cancer therapy caused by BCR-ABL gene mutation or amplification. Science
2001;293:876–880.
177. Heinrich MC, Corless CL, Blanke CD, et al. Molecular correlates of imatinib resistance in gastrointestinal stromal tumors. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:
4764–4774.
178. Shepherd FA, Rodrigues Pereira J, Ciuleanu T, et al. Erlotinib in previously
treated non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2005;353:123–132.
179. Kobayashi S, Boggon TJ, Dayaram T, et al. EGFR mutation and resistance
of non-small-cell lung cancer to gefitinib. N Engl J Med 2005;352:786–792.
180. Kwak EL, Sordella R, Bell DW, et al. Irreversible inhibitors of the EGF receptor may circumvent acquired resistance to gefitinib. Proc Natl Acad Sci
U S A 2005;102:7665–7670.
181. Pao W, Miller VA, Politi KA, et al. Acquired resistance of lung adenocarcinomas to gefitinib or erlotinib is associated with a second mutation in the
EGFR kinase domain. PLoS Med 2005;2:e73.
182. Shih JY, Gow CH, Yang PC. EGFR mutation conferring primary resistance
to gefitinib in non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2005;353:207–208.
183. Bell DW, Gore I, Okimoto Ra, et al. Inherited susceptibility to lung cancer
may be associated with the T790M drug resistance mutation in EGFR. Nat
Genet 2005;37:1315–1316.
184. Inukai M, Toyooka S, Ito S, et al. Presence of epidermal growth factor receptor gene T790M mutation as a minor clone in non-small cell lung cancer.
Cancer Res 2006;66:7854–7858.
185. Daub H, Specht K, Ullrich A. Strategies to overcome resistance to targeted
protein kinase inhibitors. Nat Rev Drug Discov 2004;3:1001–1010.
186. Choi YL, Soda M, Yamashita Y, et al. EML4-ALK mutations in lung cancer
that confer resistance to ALK inhibitors. N Engl J Med 2010;363:1734–1739.
187. Flaherty KT, Puzanov I, Kim KB, et al. Inhibition of mutated, activated
BRAF in metastatic melanoma. N Engl J Med 2010;363:809–819.
188. Nazarian R, Shi H, Wang Q, et al. Melanomas acquire resistance to BRAF(V600E) inhibition by RTK or N-RAS upregulation. Nature 2010;468:
973–977.
189. Pompetti F, Spadano A, Sau A, et al. Long-term remission in BCR/ABLpositive AML-M6 patient treated with Imatinib Mesylate. Leuk Res 2007;31:
563–567.
190. Druker BJ, Builhot F, O’Brien SG, et al. Five-year follow-up of patients receiving imatinib for chronic myeloid leukemia. N Engl J Med 2006;355:2408–2417.

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

Chapter 1 The Cancer Genome

2

Hallmarks of Cancer:
An Organizing Principle for
Cancer Medicine

Douglas Hanahan and Robert A. Weinberg

INTRODUCTION

HALLMARK CAPABILITIES, IN ESSENCE

The hallmarks of cancer comprise eight biologic capabilities acquired by incipient cancer cells during the multistep
development of human tumors. The hallmarks constitute an
organizing principle for rationalizing the complexities of neoplastic disease. They include sustaining proliferative signaling,
evading growth suppressors, resisting cell death, enabling replicative immortality, inducing angiogenesis, activating invasion
and metastasis, reprogramming energy metabolism, and evading immune destruction. Facilitating the acquisition of these
hallmark capabilities are genome instability, which enables
mutational alteration of hallmark-enabling genes, and immune
inflammation, which fosters the acquisition of multiple hallmark functions. In addition to cancer cells, tumors exhibit
another dimension of complexity: They contain a repertoire of
recruited, ostensibly normal cells that contribute to the acquisition of hallmark traits by creating the tumor microenvironment.
Recognition of the widespread applicability of these concepts
will increasingly influence the development of new means to
treat human cancer.
At the beginning of the new millennium, we proposed that six
hallmarks of cancer embody an organizing principle that provides
a logical framework for understanding the remarkable diversity
of neoplastic diseases.1 Implicit in our discussion was the notion
that, as normal cells evolve progressively to a neoplastic state, they
acquire a succession of these hallmark capabilities, and that the
multistep process of human tumor pathogenesis can be rationalized by the need of incipient cancer cells to acquire the diverse
traits that in aggregate enable them to become tumorigenic and,
ultimately, malignant.
We noted as an ancillary proposition that tumors are more
than insular masses of proliferating cancer cells. Instead, they are
complex tissues composed of multiple distinct types of neoplastic
and normal cells that participate in heterotypic interactions with
one another. We depicted the recruited normal cells, which form
tumor-associated stroma, as active participants in tumorigenesis
rather than passive bystanders; as such, these stromal cells contribute to the development and expression of certain hallmark capabilities. This notion has been solidified and extended during the
intervening period, and it is now clear that the biology of tumors
can no longer be understood simply by enumerating the traits of
the cancer cells, but instead must encompass the contributions
of the tumor microenvironment to tumorigenesis. In 2011, we revisited the original hallmarks, adding two new ones to the roster,
and expanded on the functional roles and contributions made by
recruited stromal cells to tumor biology.2 Herein we reiterate and
further refine the hallmarks-of-cancer perspectives we presented in
2000 and 2011, with the goal of informing students of cancer medicine about the concept and its potential utility for understanding
the pathogenesis of human cancer, and the potential relevance of
this concept to the development of more effective treatments for
this disease.

The eight hallmarks of cancer—distinct and complementary capabilities that enable tumor growth and metastatic dissemination—
continue to provide a solid foundation for understanding the
biology of cancer (Fig. 2.1). The sections that follow summarize
the essence of each hallmark, providing insights into their regulation and functional manifestations.

Sustaining Proliferative Signaling
Arguably, the most fundamental trait of cancer cells involves their
ability to sustain chronic proliferation. Normal tissues carefully
control the production and release of growth-promoting signals
that instruct entry of cells into and progression through the growthand-division cycle, thereby ensuring proper control of cell number
and thus maintenance of normal tissue architecture and function.
Cancer cells, by deregulating these signals, become masters of their
own destinies. The enabling signals are conveyed in large part by
growth factors that bind cell-surface receptors, typically containing
intracellular tyrosine kinase domains. The latter proceed to emit
signals via branched intracellular signaling pathways that regulate
progression through the cell cycle as well as cell growth (that is,
increase in cell size); often, these signals influence yet other cellbiologic properties, such as cell survival and energy metabolism.
Remarkably, the precise identities and sources of the
proliferative signals operating within normal tissues remain
poorly understood. Moreover, we still know relatively little about
the mechanisms controlling the release of these mitogenic signals. In part, the study of these mechanisms is complicated by
the fact that the growth factor signals controlling cell number
and position within normal tissues are thought to be transmitted in a temporally and spatially regulated fashion from one cell
to its neighbors; such paracrine signaling is difficult to access
experimentally. In addition, the bioavailability of growth factors
is regulated by their sequestration in the pericellular space and
associated extracellular matrix. Moreover, the actions of these
extracellular mitogenic proteins is further controlled by a complex network of proteases, sulfatases, and possibly other enzymes
that liberate and activate these factors, apparently in a highly specific and localized fashion.
The mitogenic signaling operating in cancer cells is, in contrast, far better understood.3–6 Cancer cells can acquire the capability to sustain proliferative signaling in a number of alternative
ways: They may produce growth factor ligands themselves, to
which they can then respond via the coexpression of cognate
receptors, resulting in autocrine proliferative stimulation. Alternatively, cancer cells may send signals to stimulate normal cells
within the supporting tumor-associated stroma; the stromal cells
then reciprocate by supplying the cancer cells with various growth
factors.7,8 Mitogenic signaling can also be deregulated by elevating the levels of receptor proteins displayed at the cancer cell

24
tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 2 Hallmarks of Cancer: An Organizing Principle for Cancer Medicine

Deregulating
cellular
energetics

Evading
growth
suppressors

Resisting
cell
death

Avoiding
immune
destruction

Inducing
angiogenesis
Activating
invasion &
metastasis

Enabling
replicative
immortality

Figure 2.1 The hallmarks of cancer. Eight functional capabilities—the
hallmarks of cancer—are thought to be acquired by developing cancers
in the course of the multistep carcinogenesis that leads to most forms
of human cancer. The order in which these hallmark capabilities are
acquired and the relative balance and importance of their contributions
to malignant disease appears to vary across the spectrum of human
cancers. (Adapted from Hanahan D, Weinberg R. The hallmarks of cancer.
Cell 2000;100:57–70; Hanahan D, Weinberg RA. Hallmarks of cancer: the
next generation. Cell 2011;144:646–674.)

surface, rendering such cells hyperresponsive to otherwise limiting
amounts of growth factor ligands; the same outcome can result
from structural alterations in the receptor molecules that facilitate
ligand-independent firing.
Independence from externally supplied growth factors may also
derive from the constitutive activation of components of intracellular signaling cascades operating downstream of these receptors
within cancer cells. These intracellular alterations obviate the
need to stimulate cell proliferation pathways by ligand-mediated
activation of cell-surface receptors. Of note, because a number
of distinct downstream signaling pathways radiate from ligandstimulated receptors, the activation of one or another of these
downstream branches (e.g., the pathway responding to the Ras signal transducer) may only provide a subset of the regulatory instructions transmitted by a ligand-activated receptor.

Somatic Mutations Activate Additional
Downstream Pathways
DNA sequencing analyses of cancer cell genomes have revealed
somatic mutations in certain human tumors that predict constitutive activation of the signaling circuits, cited previously, that are
normally triggered by activated growth factor receptors. The past
3 decades have witnessed the identification in tens of thousands
of human tumors of mutant, oncogenic alleles of the RAS protooncogenes, most of which have sustained point mutations in the
12th codon, which results in RAS proteins that are constitutively
active in downstream signaling. Thus, more than 90% of pancreatic adenocarcinomas carry mutant K-RAS alleles. More recently,
the repertoire of frequently mutated genes has been expanded to
include those encoding the downstream effectors of the RAS proteins. For example, we now know that ∼40% of human melanomas
contain activating mutations affecting the structure of the B-RAF
protein, resulting in constitutive signaling through the RAF to the
mitogen-activated protein (MAP)–kinase pathway.9 Similarly, mutations in the catalytic subunit of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)

isoforms are being detected in an array of tumor types; these mutations typically serve to hyperactivate the PI3K signaling pathway,
causing in turn, excess signaling through the crucial Akt/PKB
signal transducer.10,11 The advantages to tumor cells of activating
upstream (receptor) versus downstream (transducer) signaling remain obscure, as does the functional impact of cross-talk between
the multiple branched pathways radiating from individual growth
factor receptors.

Disruptions of Negative-Feedback Mechanisms
that Attenuate Proliferative Signaling
Recent observations have also highlighted the importance of negativefeedback loops that normally operate to dampen various types of
signaling and thereby ensure homeostatic regulation of the flux of
signals coursing through the intracellular circuitry.12–15 Defects in
these negative-feedback mechanisms are capable of enhancing proliferative signaling. The prototype of this type of regulation involves
the RAS oncoprotein. The oncogenic effects of mutant RAS proteins
do not result from a hyperactivation of its downstream signaling powers; instead, the oncogenic mutations affecting RAS genes impair
the intrinsic GTPase activity of RAS that normally serves to turn its
activity off, ensuring that active signal transmission (e.g., from upstream growth factor receptors) is transient; as such, oncogenic RAS
mutations disrupt an autoregulatory negative-feedback mechanism,
without which RAS generates chronic proliferative signals.
Analogous negative-feedback mechanisms operate at multiple
nodes within the proliferative signaling circuitry. A prominent example involves phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), which
counteracts PI3K by degrading its product, phosphatidylinositol
3,4,5-phosphate (PIP3). Loss-of-function mutations in PTEN amplify PI3K signaling and promote tumorigenesis in a variety of experimental models of cancer; in human tumors, PTEN expression
is often lost by the methylation of DNA at specific sites associated
with the promoter of the PTEN gene, resulting in the shutdown of
its transcription.10,11
Yet another example involves the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) kinase, a key coordinator of cell growth and
metabolism that lies both upstream and downstream of the PI3K
pathway. In the circuitry of some cancer cells, mTOR activation
results, via negative feedback, in the inhibition of PI3K signaling.
Accordingly, when mTOR is pharmacologically inhibited in such
cancer cells (e.g., by the drug rapamycin), the associated loss of
negative feedback results in increased activity of PI3K and its effector, the Akt/PKB kinase, thereby blunting the antiproliferative
effects of mTOR inhibition.16,17 It is likely that compromised negative feedback loops in this and other signaling pathways will prove
to be widespread among human cancer cells, serving as important
means by which cancer cells acquire the capability of signaling
chronically through these pathways. Moreover, disruption of such
normally self-attenuating signaling can contribute to the development of adaptive resistance toward therapeutic drugs targeting mitogenic signaling.

Excessive Proliferative Signaling Can Trigger
Cell Senescence
Early studies of oncogene action encouraged the notion that everincreasing expression of such genes and the signals released by
their protein products would result in proportionately increased
cancer cell proliferation and, thus, tumor growth. More recent
research has undermined this notion, in that it is now apparent
that excessively elevated signaling by oncoproteins, such as RAS,
MYC, and RAF, can provoke counteracting (protective) responses
from cells, such as induction of cell death; alternatively, cancer
cells expressing high levels of these oncoproteins may be forced to
enter into the nonproliferative but viable state called senescence.
These responses contrast with those seen in cells expressing lower
levels of these proteins, which permit cells to avoid senescence or
cell death and, thus, proliferate.18–21

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

Sustaining
proliferative
signaling

25

26

Principles of Oncology

Cells with morphologic features of senescence, including enlarged cytoplasm, the absence of proliferation markers, and the
expression of the senescence-induced β-galactosidase enzyme,
are abundant in the tissues of mice whose genomes have been
reengineered to cause overexpression of certain oncogenes19,20;
such senescent cells are also prevalent in some cases of human
melanoma.22
These ostensibly paradoxical responses seem to reflect intrinsic cellular defense mechanisms designed to eliminate cells experiencing excessive levels of certain types of mitogenic signaling.
Accordingly, the intensity of oncogenic signaling observed in
naturally arising cancer cells may represent compromises between
maximal mitogenic stimulation and avoidance of these anti-proliferative defenses. Alternatively, some cancer cells may adapt to
high levels of oncogenic signaling by disabling their senescence- or
apoptosis-inducing circuitry.

Evading Growth Suppressors
In addition to the hallmark capability of inducing and sustaining positively acting growth-stimulatory signals, cancer cells must
also circumvent powerful programs that negatively regulate cell
proliferation; many of these programs depend on the actions of
tumor suppressor genes. Dozens of tumor suppressors that operate in various ways to limit cell proliferation or survival have been
discovered through their inactivation in one or another form of
animal or human cancer; many of these genes have been validated
as bona fide tumor suppressors through gain- or loss-of-function
experiments in mice. The two prototypical tumor suppressor genes
encode the retinoblastoma (RB)-associated and TP53 proteins;
they operate as central control nodes within two key, complementary cellular regulatory circuits that govern the decisions of cells to
proliferate, or alternatively, to activate growth arrest, senescence,
or the cell-suicide program known as apoptosis.
The RB protein integrates signals from diverse extracellular and intracellular sources and, in response, decides whether
or not a cell should proceed through its growth-and-division
cycle.23–25 Cancer cells with defects in the RB pathway function
are thus missing the services of a critical gatekeeper of cell-cycle
progression whose absence permits persistent cell proliferation.
Whereas RB transduces growth-inhibitory signals that largely
originate outside of the cell, TP53 receives inputs from stress
and abnormality sensors that function within the cell’s intracellular operating systems. For example, if the degree of damage to
a cell’s genome is excessive, or if the levels of nucleotide pools,
growth-promoting signals, glucose, or oxygenation are insufficient, TP53 can call a halt to further cell-cycle progression until
these conditions have been normalized. Alternatively, in the face
of alarm signals indicating overwhelming or irreparable damage
to such cellular systems, TP53 can trigger apoptosis. Of note,
the alternative effects of activated TP53 are complex and highly
context dependent, varying by cell type as well as by the severity and persistence of conditions of cell-physiologic stress and
genomic damage.
Although the two canonical suppressors of proliferation—TP53
and RB—have preeminent importance in regulating cell proliferation, various lines of evidence indicate that each operates as part
of a larger network that is wired for functional redundancy. For
example, chimeric mice populated throughout their bodies with
individual cells lacking a functional Rb gene are surprisingly free
of proliferative abnormalities, despite the expectation that a loss of
RB function should result in unimpeded advance through the cell
division cycle by these cells and their lineal descendants; some of
the resulting clusters of Rb-null cells should, by all rights, progress
to neoplasia. Instead, the Rb-null cells in such chimeric mice have
been found to participate in relatively normal tissue morphogenesis throughout the body; the only neoplasia observed is of pituitary
tumors developing late in life.26 Similarly, TP53-null mice develop

normally, show largely normal cell and tissue homeostasis, and
again develop abnormalities only later in life in the form of leukemias and sarcomas.27

Mechanisms of Contact Inhibition and Its Evasion
Four decades of research have demonstrated that the cell-to-cell
contacts formed by dense populations of normal cells growing in
2-dimensional culture operate to suppress further cell proliferation, yielding confluent cell monolayers. Importantly, such contact
inhibition is abolished in various types of cancer cells in culture,
suggesting that contact inhibition is an in vitro surrogate of a
mechanism that operates in vivo to ensure normal tissue homeostasis that is abrogated during the course of tumorigenesis. Until
recently, the mechanistic basis for this mode of growth control remained obscure. Now, however, mechanisms of contact inhibition
are beginning to emerge.28
One mechanism involves the product of the NF2 gene, long
implicated as a tumor suppressor because its loss triggers a form
of human neurofibromatosis. Merlin, the cytoplasmic NF2 gene
product, orchestrates contact inhibition by coupling cell-surface
adhesion molecules (e.g., E-cadherin) to transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinases (e.g., the EGF receptor). In so doing, Merlin
strengthens the adhesiveness of cadherin-mediated cell-to-cell
attachments. Additionally, by sequestering such growth factor
receptors, Merlin limits their ability to efficiently emit mitogenic
signals.28–31

Corruption of the TGF-β Pathway Promotes
Malignancy
Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β is best known for its antiproliferative effects on epithelial cells. The responses of carcinoma
cells to TGF-β’s proliferation–suppressive effects is now appreciated to be far more elaborate than a simple shutdown of its signaling circuitry.32–35 In normal cells, exposure to TGF-β blocks their
progression through the G1 phase of the cell cycle. In many latestage tumors, however, TGF-β signaling is redirected away from
suppressing cell proliferation and is found instead to activate a
cellular program, termed the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition
(EMT), which confers on cancer cells multiple traits associated
with high-grade malignancy, as will be discussed in further detail.

Resisting Cell Death
The ability to activate the normally latent apoptotic cell-death
program appears to be associated with most types of normal cells
throughout the body. Its actions in many if not all multicellular
organisms seems to reflect the need to eliminate aberrant cells
whose continued presence would otherwise threaten organismic integrity. This rationale explains why cancer cells often, if
not invariably, inactivate or attenuate this program during their
development.21,36–38
Elucidation of the detailed design of the signaling circuitry governing the apoptotic program has revealed how apoptosis is triggered in response to various physiologic stresses that cancer cells
experience either during the course of tumorigenesis or as a result of anticancer therapy. Notable among the apoptosis-inducing
stresses are signaling imbalances resulting from elevated levels of
oncogene signaling and from DNA damage. The regulators of the
apoptotic response are divided into two major circuits, one receiving and processing extracellular death-inducing signals (the extrinsic apoptotic program, involving for example the Fas ligand/
Fas receptor), and the other sensing and integrating a variety of
signals of intracellular origin (the intrinsic program). Each of these
circuits culminates in the activation of a normally latent protease
(caspase 8 or 9, respectively), which proceeds to initiate a cascade
of proteolysis involving effector caspases that are responsible for the
execution phase of apoptosis. During this final phase, an apoptotic

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

27

cell is progressively disassembled and then consumed, both by its
neighbors and by professional phagocytic cells. Currently, the intrinsic apoptotic program is more widely implicated as a barrier to
cancer pathogenesis.
The molecular machinery that conveys signals between the
apoptotic regulators and effectors is controlled by counterbalancing pro- and antiapoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family of
regulatory proteins.36,37 The archetype, Bcl-2, along with its closest relatives (Bcl-XL, Bcl-W, Mcl-1, A1) are inhibitors of apoptosis, acting in large part by binding to and thereby suppressing
two proapoptotic triggering proteins (Bax and Bak); the latter
are embedded in the mitochondrial outer membrane. When
relieved of inhibition by their antiapoptotic relatives, Bax and
Bax disrupt the integrity of the outer mitochondrial membrane,
causing the release into the cytosol of proapoptotic signaling
proteins, the most important of which is cytochrome C. When
the normally sequestered cytochrome C is released, it activates a
cascade of cytosolic caspase proteases that proceed to fragment
multiple cellular structures, thereby executing the apoptotic
death program.37,39
Several abnormality sensors have been identified that play key
roles in triggering apoptosis.21,37 Most notable is a DNA damage
sensor that acts through the TP53 tumor suppressor40; TP53 induces apoptosis by upregulating expression of the proapoptotic,
Bcl-2-related Noxa and Puma proteins, doing so in response to
substantial levels of DNA breaks and other chromosomal abnormalities. Alternatively, insufficient survival factor signaling (e.g.,
inadequate levels of interleukin (IL)-3 in lymphocytes or of insulinlike growth factors 1/2 [IGF1/2] in epithelial cells) can elicit
apoptosis through another proapoptotic Bcl-2–related protein
called Bim. Yet another condition triggering apoptosis involves hyperactive signaling by certain oncoproteins, such as Myc, which
acts in part via Bim and other Bcl-2–related proteins.18,21,40
Tumor cells evolve a variety of strategies to limit or circumvent apoptosis. Most common is the loss of TP53 tumor suppressor
function, which eliminates this critical damage sensor from the
apoptosis-inducing circuitry. Alternatively, tumors may achieve
similar ends by increasing the expression of antiapoptotic regulators (Bcl-2, Bcl-XL) or of survival signals (IGF1/2), by downregulating proapoptotic Bcl-2–related factors (Bax, Bim, Puma), or by
short-circuiting the extrinsic ligand-induced death pathway. The
multiplicity of apoptosis-avoiding mechanisms presumably reflects
the diversity of apoptosis-inducing signals that cancer cell populations encounter during their evolution from the normal to the
neoplastic state.

research has revealed intersections between the regulatory circuits
governing autophagy, apoptosis, and cellular homeostasis. For example, the signaling pathway involving PI3K, AKT, and mTOR,
which is stimulated by survival signals to block apoptosis, similarly
inhibits autophagy; when survival signals are insufficient, the PI3K
signaling pathway is downregulated, with the result that autophagy
and/or apoptosis may be induced.41,42,44,45
Another interconnection between these two programs resides
in the Beclin-1 protein, which has been shown by genetic studies
to be necessary for the induction of autophagy.41–44 Beclin-1 is a
member of the Bcl-2 family of apoptotic regulatory proteins, and
its BH3 domain allows it to bind the Bcl-2/Bcl-XL proteins. Stress
sensor–coupled BH3-containing proteins (e.g. Bim, Noxa) can
displace Beclin-1 from its association with Bcl-2/Bcl-XL, enabling
the liberated Beclin-1 to trigger autophagy, much as they can release proapoptotic Bax and Bak to trigger apoptosis. Hence, stresstransducing Bcl-2–related proteins can induce apoptosis and/or
autophagy depending on the physiologic state of the cell.
Genetically altered mice bearing inactivated alleles of the
Beclin-1 gene or of certain other components of the autophagy
machinery exhibit increased susceptibility to cancer.42,46 These
results suggest that the induction of autophagy can serve as a
barrier to tumorigenesis that may operate independently of or
in concert with apoptosis. For example, excessive activation of
the autophagy program may cause cells to devour too many of
their own critical organelles, such that cell growth and division
are crippled. Accordingly, autophagy may represent yet another
barrier that needs to be circumvented by incipient cancer cells
during multistep tumor development.41,46
Perhaps paradoxically, nutrient starvation, radiotherapy, and
certain cytotoxic drugs can induce elevated levels of autophagy
that apparently protect cancer cells.45–48 Moreover, severely
stressed cancer cells have been shown to shrink via autophagy to a
state of reversible dormancy.46,49 This particular survival response
may enable the persistence and eventual regrowth of some latestage tumors following treatment with potent anticancer agents.
Together, observations like these indicate that autophagy can
have dichotomous effects on tumor cells and, thus, tumor progression.46,47 An important agenda for future research will involve
clarifying the genetic and cell-physiologic conditions that determine when and how autophagy enables cancer cells to survive or,
alternatively, causes them to die.

Autophagy Mediates Both Tumor Cell Survival and
Death

In contrast to apoptosis, in which a dying cell contracts into an
almost invisible corpse that is soon consumed by its neighbors, necrotic cells become bloated and explode, releasing their contents
into the local tissue microenvironment. A body of evidence has
shown that cell death by necrosis, like apoptosis, is an organized
process under genetic control, rather than being a random and
undirected process.50–52
Importantly, necrotic cell death releases proinflammatory signals into the surrounding tissue microenvironment, in contrast to
apoptosis, which does not. As a consequence, necrotic cells can
recruit inflammatory cells of the immune system,51,53,54 whose
dedicated function is to survey the extent of tissue damage and
remove associated necrotic debris. In the context of neoplasia,
however, multiple lines of evidence indicate that immune inflammatory cells can be actively tumor-promoting by fostering angiogenesis, cancer cell proliferation, and invasiveness (discussed in
subsequent sections). Additionally, necrotic cells can release bioactive regulatory factors, such as IL1α, which can directly stimulate neighboring viable cells to proliferate, with the potential,
once again, to facilitate neoplastic progression.53 Consequently,
necrotic cell death, while seemingly beneficial in counterbalancing cancer-associated hyperproliferation, may ultimately do more
damage to the patient than good.

Autophagy represents an important cell-physiologic response
that, like apoptosis, normally operates at low, basal levels in
cells but can be strongly induced in certain states of cellular
stress, the most obvious of which is nutrient deficiency.41–43 The
autophagic program enables cells to break down cellular organelles, such as ribosomes and mitochondria, allowing the resulting catabolites to be recycled and thus used for biosynthesis and
energy metabolism. As part of this program, intracellular vesicles (termed autophagosomes) envelope the cellular organelles
destined for degradation; the resulting vesicles then fuse with
lysosomes in which degradation occurs. In this fashion, low–
molecular-weight metabolites are generated that support survival in the stressed, nutrient-limited environments experienced
by many cancer cells. When acting in this fashion, autophagy
favors cancer cell survival.
However, the autophagy program intersects in more complex
ways with the life and death of cancer cells. Like apoptosis, the
autophagy machinery has both regulatory and effector components.41–43 Among the latter are proteins that mediate autophagosome formation and delivery to lysosomes. Of note, recent

Necrosis Has Proinflammatory and
Tumor-Promoting Potential

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

Chapter 2 Hallmarks of Cancer: An Organizing Principle for Cancer Medicine

28

Principles of Oncology

Enabling Replicative Immortality
Cancer cells require unlimited replicative potential in order to
generate macroscopic tumors. This capability stands in marked
contrast to the behavior of the cells in most normal cell lineages
in the body, which are only able to pass through a limited number of successive cell growth-and-division cycles. This limitation
has been associated with two distinct barriers to proliferation:
replicative senescence, a typically irreversible entrance into a nonproliferative but viable state, and crisis, which involves cell death.
Accordingly, when cells are propagated in culture, repeated cycles
of cell division lead first to induction of replicative senescence and
then, for those cells that succeed in circumventing this barrier, to
the crisis phase, in which the great majority of cells in the population die. On rare occasion, cells emerge from a population in
crisis and exhibit unlimited replicative potential. This transition
has been termed immortalization, a trait that most established cell
lines possess by virtue of their ability to proliferate in culture without evidence of either senescence or crisis.
Multiple lines of evidence indicate that telomeres protecting
the ends of chromosomes are centrally involved in the capability for unlimited proliferation.55–58 The telomere-associated DNA,
composed of multiple tandem hexanucleotide repeats, shortens
progressively in the chromosomes of nonimmortalized cells propagated in culture, eventually losing the ability to protect the ends
of chromosomal DNA from end-to-end fusions; such aberrant fusions generate unstable dicentric chromosomes, whose resolution
during the anaphase of mitosis results in a scrambling of karyotype
and entrance into crisis that threatens cell viability. Accordingly,
the length of telomeric DNA in a cell dictates how many successive cell generations its progeny can pass through before telomeres
are largely eroded and have consequently lost their protective
functions.
Telomerase, the specialized DNA polymerase that adds telomere repeat segments to the ends of telomeric DNA, is almost
absent in nonimmortalized cells but is expressed at functionally
significant levels in the great majority (∼90%) of spontaneously
immortalized cells, including human cancer cells. By extending
telomeric DNA, telomerase is able to counter the progressive telomere erosion that would otherwise occur in its absence. The presence of telomerase activity, either in spontaneously immortalized
cells or in the context of cells engineered to express the enzyme,
is correlated with a resistance to induction of both senescence and
crisis/apoptosis; conversely, the suppression of telomerase activity
leads to telomere shortening and to activation of one or the other
of these proliferative barriers.
The two barriers to proliferation—replicative senescence and
crisis/apoptosis—have been rationalized as crucial anticancer defenses that are hardwired into our cells and are deployed to impede
the outgrowth of clones of preneoplastic and, frankly, neoplastic
cells. According to this thinking, most incipient neoplasias exhaust
their endowment of replicative doublings and are stopped in their
tracks by either of these barriers. The eventual immortalization of
rare variant cells that proceed to form tumors has been attributed
to their ability to maintain telomeric DNA at lengths sufficient to
avoid triggering either senescence or apoptosis, which is achieved
most commonly by upregulating the expression of telomerase or,
less frequently, via an alternative recombination-based (ALT) telomere maintenance mechanism.59 Hence, telomere shortening has
come to be viewed as a clocking device that determines the limited
replicative potential of normal cells and, thus, one that must be
overcome by cancer cells.

Reassessing Replicative Senescence
The senescent state induced by oncogenes, as described previously, is remarkably similar to that induced when cells are explanted from living tissue and introduced into culture, the latter
being the replicative senescence just discussed. Importantly,

the concept of replication-induced senescence as a general barrier
requires refinement and reformulation. Recent experiments have
revealed that the induction of senescence in certain cultured cells
can be delayed and possibly eliminated by the use of improved
cell culture conditions, suggesting that recently explanted primary
cells may be intrinsically able to proliferate unimpeded in culture
up the point of crisis and the associated induction of apoptosis triggered by critically shortened telomeres.60–63 This result indicates
that telomere shortening does not necessarily induce senescence
prior to crisis. Additional insight comes from experiments in mice
engineered to lack telomerase; this work has revealed that shortening telomeres can shunt premalignant cells into a senescent state
that contributes (along with apoptosis) to attenuated tumorigenesis
in mice genetically destined to develop particular forms of cancer.58 Such telomerase-null mice with highly eroded telomeres
exhibit multiorgan dysfunction and abnormalities that provide
evidence of both senescence and apoptosis, perhaps similar to the
senescence and apoptosis observed in cell culture.58,64 Thus, depending on the cellular context, the proliferative barrier of telomere shortening can be manifested by the induction of senescence
and/or apoptosis.

Delayed Activation of Telomerase May Both Limit
and Foster Neoplastic Progression
There is now evidence that clones of incipient cancer cells in
spontaneously arising tumors experience telomere loss-induced
crisis relatively early during the course of multistep tumor progression due to their inability to express significant levels of telomerase. Thus, extensively eroded telomeres have been documented
in premalignant growths through the use of fluorescence in situ
hybridization (FISH), which has also revealed the end-to-end
chromosomal fusions that signal telomere failure and crisis.65,66
These results suggest that such incipient cancer cells have passed
through a substantial number of successive telomere-shortening
cell divisions during their evolution from fully normal cells of origin. Accordingly, the development of some human neoplasias may
be aborted by telomere-induced crisis long before they have progressed to become macroscopic, frankly neoplastic growths.
A quite different situation is observed in cells that have lost the
TP53-mediated surveillance of genomic integrity and, thereafter,
experience critically eroded telomeres. The loss of the TP53 DNA
damage sensor can enable such cells to avoid apoptosis that would
otherwise be triggered by the DNA damage resulting from dysfunctional telomeres. Instead, such cells lacking TP53 continue
to divide, suffering repeated cycles of interchromosomal fusion
and subsequent breakage at mitosis. Such breakage-fusion-bridge
(BFB) cycles result in deletions and amplifications of chromosomal segments, evidently serving to mutagenize the genome,
thereby facilitating the generation and subsequent clonal selection
of cancer cells that have acquired mutant oncogenes and tumor
suppressor genes.58,67 One infers, however, that the clones of cancer cells that survive this telomere collapse must eventually acquire the ability to stabilize and thus protect their telomeres via the
activation of telomerase or the ALT mechanism noted previously.
These considerations present an interesting dichotomy:
Although dysfunctional telomeres are an evident barrier to chronic
proliferation, they can also facilitate the genomic instability that
generates hallmark-enabling mutations, as will be discussed further. Both mechanisms may be at play in certain forms of carcinogenesis in the form of transitory telomere deficiency prior to
telomere stabilization. Circumstantial support for this concept of
transient telomere deficiency in facilitating malignant progression
has come from comparative analyses of premalignant and malignant lesions in the human breast.68,69 The premalignant lesions
did not express significant levels of telomerase and were marked
by telomere shortening and chromosomal aberrations. In contrast,
overt carcinomas exhibited telomerase expression concordantly
with the reconstruction of longer telomeres and the fixation of the

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 2 Hallmarks of Cancer: An Organizing Principle for Cancer Medicine

Inducing Angiogenesis
Like normal tissues, tumors require sustenance in the form of
nutrients and oxygen as well as an ability to evacuate metabolic
wastes and carbon dioxide. The tumor-associated neovasculature,
generated by the process of angiogenesis, addresses these needs.
During embryogenesis, the development of the vasculature involves the birth of new endothelial cells and their assembly into
tubes (vasculogenesis) in addition to the sprouting (angiogenesis)
of new vessels from existing ones. Following this morphogenesis,
the normal vasculature becomes largely quiescent. In the adult, as
part of physiologic processes such as wound healing and female reproductive cycling, angiogenesis is turned on, but only transiently.
In contrast, during tumor progression, an angiogenic switch is almost always activated and remains on, causing normally quiescent
vasculature to continually sprout new vessels that help sustain expanding neoplastic growths.70
A compelling body of evidence indicates that the angiogenic
switch is governed by countervailing factors that either induce or
oppose angiogenesis.71,72 Some of these angiogenic regulators are
signaling proteins that bind to stimulatory or inhibitory cell-surface
receptors displayed by vascular endothelial cells. The well-known
prototypes of angiogenesis inducers and inhibitors are vascular
endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A) and thrombospondin-1
(Tsp-1), respectively.
The VEGF-A gene encodes ligands that are involved in orchestrating new blood vessel growth during embryonic and postnatal
development, in the survival of endothelial cells in already-formed
vessels, and in certain physiologic and pathologic situations in
the adult. VEGF signaling via three receptor tyrosine kinases
(VEGFR1–3) is regulated at multiple levels, reflecting this complexity of purpose. VEGF gene expression can be upregulated both
by hypoxia and by oncogene signaling.73–75 Additionally, VEGF ligands can be sequestered in the extracellular matrix in latent forms
that are subject to release and activation by extracellular matrixdegrading proteases (e.g., matrix metallopeptidase 9 [MMP-9]).76
In addition, other proangiogenic proteins, such as members of the
fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family, have been implicated in sustaining tumor angiogenesis.71 TSP-1, a key counterbalance in the
angiogenic switch, also binds transmembrane receptors displayed
by endothelial cells and thereby triggers suppressive signals that
can counteract proangiogenic stimuli.77
The blood vessels produced within tumors by an unbalanced
mix of proangiogenic signals are typically aberrant: Tumor neovasculature is marked by precocious capillary sprouting, convoluted
and excessive vessel branching, distorted and enlarged vessels, erratic blood flow, microhemorrhaging, leaking of plasma into the
tissue parenchyma, and abnormal levels of endothelial cell proliferation and apoptosis.78,79
Angiogenesis is induced surprisingly early during the multistage development of invasive cancers both in animal models
and in humans. Histologic analyses of premalignant, noninvasive
lesions, including dysplasias and in situ carcinomas arising in a
variety of organs, have revealed the early tripping of the angiogenic switch.70,80 Historically, angiogenesis was envisioned to be
important only when rapidly growing macroscopic tumors had
formed, but more recent data indicate that angiogenesis also
contributes to the microscopic premalignant phase of neoplastic
progression, further cementing its status as an integral hallmark
of cancer.

Gradations of the Angiogenic Switch
Once angiogenesis has been activated, tumors exhibit diverse
patterns of neovascularization. Some tumors, including highly
aggressive types such as pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas, are
hypovascularized and replete with stromal deserts that are largely
avascular and indeed may even be actively antiangiogenic.81 In
contrast, many other tumors, including human renal and pancreatic neuroendocrine carcinomas, are highly angiogenic and, consequently, densely vascularized.82,83
Collectively, such observations suggest an initial tripping of the
angiogenic switch during tumor development, which is followed
by a variable intensity of ongoing neovascularization, the latter
being controlled by a complex biologic rheostat that involves both
the cancer cells and the associated stromal microenvironment.71,72
Of note, the switching mechanisms can vary, even though the
net result is a common inductive signal (e.g., VEGF). In some
tumors, dominant oncogenes operating within tumor cells, such as
Ras and Myc, can upregulate the expression of angiogenic factors,
whereas in others, such inductive signals are produced indirectly
by immune inflammatory cells, as will be discussed.

Endogenous Angiogenesis Inhibitors Present
Natural Barriers to Tumor Angiogenesis
A variety of secreted proteins have been reported to have the capability to help shut off normally transitory angiogenesis, including thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1), fragments of plasmin (angiostatin)
and type 18 collagen (endostatin), along with another dozen candidate antiangiogenic proteins.77,84–88 Most are proteins, and many
are derived by proteolytic cleavage of structural proteins that are
not themselves angiogenic regulators.
A number of these endogenous inhibitors of angiogenesis
can be detected in the circulation of normal mice and humans.
Genes that encode several endogenous angiogenesis inhibitors
have been deleted from the mouse germ line without untoward
developmental or physiologic effects; however, the growth of
autochthonous and implanted tumors is enhanced as a consequence.84,85,88 By contrast, if the circulating levels of an endogenous inhibitor are genetically increased (e.g., via overexpression
in transgenic mice or in xenotransplanted tumors), tumor growth
is impaired.85,88 Interestingly, wound healing and fat deposition
are impaired or accelerated by elevated or ablated expression of
such genes.89,90 The data suggest that, under normal conditions,
endogenous angiogenesis inhibitors serve as physiologic regulators modulating the transitory angiogenesis that occurs during tissue remodeling and wound healing; they may also act as intrinsic
barriers to the induction and/or persistence of angiogenesis by
incipient neoplasias.

Pericytes Are Important Components of the
Tumor Neovasculature
Pericytes have long been known as supporting cells that are closely
apposed to the outer surfaces of the endothelial tubes in normal
tissue vasculature, where they provide important mechanical and
physiologic support to the endothelial cells. Microscopic studies
conducted in recent years have revealed that pericytes are associated, albeit loosely, with the neovasculature of most, if not all,
tumors.91–93 More importantly, mechanistic studies (discussed
subsequently) have revealed that pericyte coverage is important for
the maintenance of a functional tumor neovasculature.

A Variety of Bone Marrow-Derived Cells Contribute
to Tumor Angiogenesis
It is now clear that a repertoire of cell types originating in the bone
marrow play crucial roles in pathologic angiogenesis.94–97 These include cells of the innate immune system—notably, macrophages,
neutrophils, mast cells, and myeloid progenitors—that assemble

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

aberrant karyotypes that would seem to have been acquired after
telomere failure but before the acquisition of telomerase activity.
When portrayed in this way, the delayed acquisition of telomerase
function serves to generate tumor-promoting mutations, whereas
its subsequent expression stabilizes the mutant genome and confers the unlimited replicative capacity that cancer cells require in
order to generate clinically apparent tumors.

29

30

Principles of Oncology

at the margins of such lesions or infiltrate deeply within them; the
tumor-associated inflammatory cells can help to trip the angiogenic switch in quiescent tissue and sustain ongoing angiogenesis
associated with tumor growth. In addition, they can help protect
the vasculature from the effects of drugs targeting endothelial
cell signaling.98 Moreover, several types of bone marrow–derived
vascular progenitor cells have been observed to have migrated into
neoplastic lesions and become intercalated into the existing neovasculature, where they assumed the roles of either pericytes or
endothelial cells.92,99,100

Activating Invasion and Metastasis
The multistep process of invasion and metastasis has been schematized as a sequence of discrete steps, often termed the invasion–
metastasis cascade.101,102 This depiction portrays a succession of
cell-biologic changes, beginning with local invasion, then intravasation by cancer cells into nearby blood and lymphatic vessels,
transit of cancer cells through the lymphatic and hematogenous
systems, followed by the escape of cancer cells from the lumina of
such vessels into the parenchyma of distant tissues (extravasation),
the formation of small nests of cancer cells (micrometastases),
and finally, the growth of micrometastatic lesions into macroscopic tumors, this last step being termed colonization. These
steps have largely been studied in the context of carcinoma pathogenesis. Indeed, when viewed through the prism of the invasion–
metastasis cascade, the diverse tumors of this class appear to
behave in similar ways.
During the malignant progression of carcinomas, the neoplastic cells typically develop alterations in their shape as well as their
attachment to other cells and to the extracellular matrix (ECM).
The best-characterized alteration involves the loss by carcinoma
cells of E-cadherin, a key epithelial cell-to-cell adhesion molecule.
By forming adherens junctions between adjacent epithelial cells,
E-cadherin helps to assemble epithelial cell sheets and to maintain the quiescence of the cells within these sheets. Moreover,
increased expression of E-cadherin has been well established as
an antagonist of invasion and metastasis, whereas a reduction of its
expression is known to potentiate these behaviors. The frequently
observed downregulation and occasional mutational inactivation
of the E-cadherin–encoding gene, CDH1, in human carcinomas provides strong support for its role as a key suppressor of the
invasion–metastasis hallmark capability.103,104
Notably, the expression of genes encoding other cell-to-cell
and cell-to-ECM adhesion molecules is also significantly altered
in the cells of many highly aggressive carcinomas, with those favoring cytostasis typically being downregulated. Conversely, adhesion molecules normally associated with the cell migrations that
occur during embryogenesis and inflammation are often upregulated. For example, N-cadherin, which is normally expressed in
migrating neurons and mesenchymal cells during organogenesis,
is upregulated in many invasive carcinoma cells, replacing the previously expressed E-cadherin.104
Research into the capability for invasion and metastasis has
accelerated dramatically over the past decade as powerful new
research tools, and refined experimental models have become
available. Although still an emerging field replete with major
unanswered questions, significant progress has been made in
delineating important features of this complex hallmark capability. An admittedly incomplete representation of these advances is
highlighted as follows.

The Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition Program
Broadly Regulates Invasion and Metastasis
A developmental regulatory program, termed the EMT, has become implicated as a prominent means by which neoplastic epithelial cells can acquire the abilities to invade, resist apoptosis, and
disseminate.105–110 By co-opting a process involved in various steps

of embryonic morphogenesis and wound healing, carcinoma cells
can concomitantly acquire multiple attributes that enable invasion
and metastasis. This multifaceted EMT program can be activated
transiently or stably, and to differing degrees, by carcinoma cells
during the course of invasion and metastasis.
A set of pleiotropically acting transcriptional factors (TF),
including Snail, Slug, Twist, and Zeb1/2, orchestrate the EMT and
related migratory processes during embryogenesis; most were initially identified by developmental genetics. These transcriptional
regulators are expressed in various combinations in a number of
malignant tumor types. Some of these EMT-TFs have been shown
in experimental models of carcinoma formation to be causally
important for programming invasion; others have been found to
elicit metastasis when experimentally expressed in primary tumor
cells.105,111–114 Included among the cell-biologic traits evoked by
these EMT-TFs are loss of adherens junctions and associated conversion from a polygonal/epithelial to a spindly/fibroblastic morphology, concomitant with expression of secreted matrix-degrading
enzymes, increased motility, and heightened resistance to apoptosis, which are implicated in the processes of invasion and metastasis.
Several of these transcription factors can directly repress E-cadherin
gene expression, thereby releasing neoplastic epithelial cells from
this key suppressor of motility and invasiveness.115
The available data suggest that EMT-TFs regulate one another as well as overlapping sets of target genes. Results from
developmental genetics indicate that contextual signals received
from neighboring cells in the embryo are involved in triggering
expression of these transcription factors in cells that are destined
to pass through an EMT111; in an analogous fashion, heterotypic
interactions of cancer cells with adjacent tumor-associated stromal
cells have been shown to induce expression of the malignant cell
phenotypes that are known to be choreographed by one or more
of these EMT-TFs.116,117 Moreover, cancer cells at the invasive
margins of certain carcinomas can be seen to have undergone an
EMT, suggesting that these cancer cells are subject to microenvironmental stimuli distinct from those received by cancer cells
located in the cores of these lesions.118 Although the evidence is
still incomplete, it would appear that EMT-TFs are able to orchestrate most steps of the invasion–metastasis cascade, except perhaps
the final step of colonization, which involves adaptation of cells
originating in one tissue to the microenvironment of a foreign,
potentially inhospitable tissue.
We still know rather little about the various manifestations and
temporal stability of the mesenchymal state produced by an EMT.
Indeed, it seems increasingly likely that many human carcinoma
cells only experience a partial EMT, in which they acquire mesenchymal markers while retaining many preexisting epithelial ones.
Although the expression of EMT-TFs has been observed in certain
nonepithelial tumor types, such as sarcomas and neuroectodermal tumors, their roles in programming malignant traits in these
tumors are presently poorly documented. Additionally, it remains
to be determined whether aggressive carcinoma cells invariably
acquire their malignant capabilities through activation of components of the EMT program, or whether alternative regulatory
programs can also enable expression of these traits.

Heterotypic Contributions of Stromal Cells to
Invasion and Metastasis
As mentioned previously, cross-talk between cancer cells and cell
types of the neoplastic stroma is involved in the acquired capabilities of invasiveness and metastasis.94,119–121 For example, mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) present in the tumor stroma have been
found to secrete CCL5/RANTES in response to signals released
by cancer cells; CCL5 then acts reciprocally on the cancer cells
to stimulate invasive behavior.122 In other work, carcinoma cells
secreting IL-1 have been shown to induce MSCs to synthesize a
spectrum of other cytokines that proceed thereafter to promote
activation of the EMT program in the carcinoma cells; these

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 2 Hallmarks of Cancer: An Organizing Principle for Cancer Medicine

Plasticity in the Invasive Growth Program
The role of contextual signals in inducing an invasive growth capability (often via an EMT) implies the possibility of reversibility,
in that cancer cells that have disseminated from a primary tumor
to more distant tissue sites may no longer benefit from the activated stroma and the EMT-inducing signals that they experienced
while residing in the primary tumor. In the absence of ongoing exposure to these signals, carcinoma cells may revert in their new
tissue environment to a noninvasive state. Thus, carcinoma cells
that underwent an EMT during initial invasion and metastatic
dissemination may reverse this metamorphosis, doing so via a
mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition (MET). This plasticity may
result in the formation of new tumor colonies of carcinoma cells
exhibiting an organization and histopathology similar to those created by carcinoma cells in the primary tumor that never experienced an EMT.128

Distinct Forms of Invasion May Underlie Different
Cancer Types
The EMT program regulates a particular type of invasiveness that
has been termed mesenchymal. In addition, two other distinct
modes of invasion have been identified and implicated in cancer
cell invasion.129,130 Collective invasion involves phalanxes of cancer
cells advancing en masse into adjacent tissues and is characteristic
of, for example, squamous cell carcinomas. Interestingly, such cancers are rarely metastatic, suggesting that this form of invasion lacks
certain functional attributes that facilitate metastasis. Less clear is
the prevalence of an amoeboid form of invasion,131,132 in which
individual cancer cells show morphologic plasticity, enabling
them to slither through existing interstices in the ECM rather than
clearing a path for themselves, as occurs in both the mesenchymal
and collective forms of invasion. It is presently unresolved whether
cancer cells participating in the collective and amoeboid forms of
invasion employ components of the EMT program, or whether
entirely different cell-biologic programs are responsible for choreographing these alternative invasion programs.
Another emerging concept, noted previously, involves the
facilitation of cancer cell invasion by inflammatory cells that
assemble at the boundaries of tumors, producing the ECMdegrading enzymes and other factors that enable invasive
growth.76,94,120,133 These functions may obviate the need of invading cancer cells to produce these proteins through activation of
EMT programs. Thus, rather than synthesizing these proteases
themselves, cancer cells may secrete chemoattractants that recruit

proinvasive inflammatory cells; the latter then proceed to produce
matrix-degrading enzymes that enable invasive growth.

The Daunting Complexity of Metastatic
Colonization
Metastasis can be broken down into two major phases: the physical dissemination of cancer cells from the primary tumor to distant
tissues, and the adaptation of these cells to foreign tissue microenvironments that results in successful colonization (i.e., the growth
of micrometastases into macroscopic tumors). The multiple steps
of dissemination would seem to lie within the purview of the EMT
and similarly acting migratory programs. Colonization, however, is
not strictly coupled with physical dissemination, as evidenced by
the presence in many patients of myriad micrometastases that have
disseminated but never progress to form macroscopic metastatic
tumors.101,102,134–136
In some types of cancer, the primary tumor may release systemic suppressor factors that render such micrometastases dormant, as revealed clinically by explosive metastatic growth soon
after resection of the primary growth.87,137 In others, however, such
as breast cancer and melanoma, macroscopic metastases may
erupt decades after a primary tumor has been surgically removed
or pharmacologically destroyed. These metastatic tumor growths
evidently reflect dormant micrometastases that have solved, after
much trial and error, the complex problem of adaptation to foreign tissue microenvironments, allowing subsequent tissue colonization.135,136,138 Implicit here is the notion that most disseminated
cancer cells are likely to be poorly adapted, at least initially, to
the microenvironment of the tissue in which they have landed.
Accordingly, each type of disseminated cancer cell may need to
develop its own set of ad hoc solutions to the problem of thriving in
the microenvironment of one or another foreign tissue.139
One can infer from such natural histories that micrometastases may lack certain hallmark capabilities necessary for vigorous growth, such as the ability to activate angiogenesis. Indeed,
the inability of certain experimentally generated dormant micrometastases to form macroscopic tumors has been ascribed to
their failure to activate tumor angiogenesis.135,140 Additionally,
recent experiments have shown that nutrient starvation can induce intense autophagy that causes cancer cells to shrink and
adopt a state of reversible dormancy. Such cells may exit this state
and resume active growth and proliferation when permitted by
changes in tissue microenvironment, such as increased availability
of nutrients, inflammation from causes such as infection or wound
healing, or other local abnormalities.49,141 Other mechanisms of
micrometastatic dormancy may involve antigrowth signals embedded in normal tissue ECM138 and tumor-suppressing actions of the
immune system.135,142
Metastatic dissemination has long been depicted as the last step
in multistep primary tumor progression; indeed, for many tumors,
that is likely the case, as illustrated by recent genome sequencing studies that provide genetic evidence for clonal evolution of
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma to a metastatic stage.143–145
Importantly, however, recent results have revealed that some
cancer cells can disseminate remarkably early, dispersing from
apparently noninvasive premalignant lesions in both mice and
humans.146,147 Additionally, micrometastases can be spawned from
primary tumors that are not obviously invasive but possess a neovasculature lacking in luminal integrity.148 Although cancer cells
can clearly disseminate from such preneoplastic lesions and seed
the bone marrow and other tissues, their capability to colonize
these sites and develop into pathologically significant macrometastases remains unproven. At present, we view this early metastatic dissemination as a demonstrable phenomenon in mice and
humans, the clinical significance of which is yet to be established.
Having developed such a tissue-specific colonizing ability, the
cells in metastatic colonies may proceed to disseminate further,
not only to new sites in the body, but also back to the primary

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

effectors include IL-6, IL-8, growth-regulated oncogene alpha
(GRO-α), and prostaglandin E2.123
Macrophages at the tumor periphery can foster local invasion
by supplying matrix-degrading enzymes such as metalloproteinases and cysteine cathepsin proteases76,120,124,125; in one model
system, the invasion-promoting macrophages are activated by IL-4
produced by the cancer cells.126 And in an experimental model
of metastatic breast cancer, tumor-associated macrophages (TAM)
supply epidermal growth factor (EGF) to breast cancer cells, while
the cancer cells reciprocally stimulate the macrophages with
colony stimulating factor 1 (CSF-1). Their concerted interactions
facilitate intravasation into the circulatory system and metastatic
dissemination of the cancer cells.94,127
Observations like these indicate that the phenotypes of highgrade malignancy do not arise in a strictly cell-autonomous manner, and that their manifestation cannot be understood solely
through analyses of signaling occurring within tumor cells. One
important implication of the EMT model, still untested, is that
the ability of carcinoma cells in primary tumors to negotiate most
of the steps of the invasion–metastasis cascade may be acquired in
certain tumors without the requirement that these cells undergo
additional mutations beyond those that were needed for primary
tumor formation.

31

32

Principles of Oncology

tumors in which their ancestors arose. Accordingly, tissue-specific
colonization programs that are evident among certain cells within
a primary tumor may originate not from classical tumor progression occurring entirely within the primary lesion, but instead from
immigrants that have returned home.149 Such reseeding is consistent with the aforementioned studies of human pancreatic cancer
metastasis.143–145 Stated differently, the phenotypes and underlying
gene expression programs in focal subpopulations of cancer cells
within primary tumors may reflect, in part, the reverse migration
of their distant metastatic progeny.
Implicit in this self-seeding process is another notion: The supportive stroma that arises in a primary tumor and contributes to
its acquisition of malignant traits provides a hospitable site for
reseeding and colonization by circulating cancer cells released
from metastatic lesions.
Clarifying the regulatory programs that enable metastatic
colonization represents an important agenda for future research.
Substantial progress is being made, for example, in defining sets
of genes (metastatic signatures) that correlate with and appear to
facilitate the establishment of macroscopic metastases in specific
tissues.139,146,150–152 Importantly, metastatic colonization almost
certainly requires the establishment of a permissive tumor microenvironment composed of critical stromal support cells. For
these reasons, the process of colonization is likely to encompass
a large number of cell-biologic programs that are, in aggregate,
considerably more complex and diverse than the preceding steps
of metastatic dissemination that allow carcinoma cells to depart
from primary tumors to sites of lodging and extravasation throughout the body.

Reprogramming Energy Metabolism
The chronic and often uncontrolled cell proliferation that represents the essence of neoplastic disease involves not only deregulated
control of cell proliferation but also corresponding adjustments
of energy metabolism in order to fuel cell growth and division.
Under aerobic conditions, normal cells process glucose, first to
pyruvate via glycolysis in the cytosol and thereafter via oxidative
phosphorylation to carbon dioxide in the mitochondria. Under
anaerobic conditions, glycolysis is favored and relatively little pyruvate is dispatched to the oxygen-consuming mitochondria. Otto
Warburg first observed an anomalous characteristic of cancer cell
energy metabolism153–155: Even in the presence of oxygen, cancer
cells can reprogram their glucose metabolism, and thus their energy production, leading to a state that has been termed aerobic
glycolysis.
The existence of this metabolic specialization operating in cancer cells has been substantiated in the ensuing decades. A key signature of aerobic glycolysis is upregulation of glucose transporters,
notably GLUT1, which substantially increases glucose import into
the cytoplasm.156–158 Indeed, markedly increased uptake and utilization of glucose has been documented in many human tumor
types, most readily by noninvasively visualizing glucose uptake
using positron-emission tomography (PET) with a radiolabeled
analog of glucose (18F-fluorodeoxyglucose [FDG]) as a reporter.
Glycolytic fueling has been shown to be associated with activated oncogenes (e.g., RAS, MYC) and mutant tumor suppressors
(e.g., TP53),18,156,157,159 whose alterations in tumor cells have been
selected primarily for their benefits in conferring the hallmark
capabilities of cell proliferation, subversion of cytostatic controls,
and attenuation of apoptosis. This reliance on glycolysis can be further accentuated under the hypoxic conditions that operate within
many tumors: The hypoxia response system acts pleiotropically to
upregulate glucose transporters and multiple enzymes of the glycolytic pathway.156,157,160 Thus, both the Ras oncoprotein and hypoxia
can independently increase the levels of the HIF1α and HIF2α
hypoxia-response transcription factors, which in turn upregulate
glycolysis.160–162

The reprogramming of energy metabolism is seemingly counterintuitive, in that cancer cells must compensate for the ∼18-fold
lower efficiency of ATP production afforded by glycolysis relative
to mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. According to one
long-forgotten163 and a recently revived and refined hypothesis,164
increased glycolysis allows the diversion of glycolytic intermediates into various biosynthetic pathways, including those generating
nucleosides and amino acids. In turn, this facilitates the biosynthesis of the macromolecules and organelles required for assembling
new cells. Moreover, Warburg-like metabolism seems to be present in many rapidly dividing embryonic tissues, once again suggesting a role in supporting the large-scale biosynthetic programs
that are required for active cell proliferation.
Interestingly, some tumors have been found to contain two subpopulations of cancer cells that differ in their energy-generating
pathways. One subpopulation consists of glucose-dependent
(Warburg-effect) cells that secrete lactate, whereas cells of the
second subpopulation preferentially import and utilize the lactate
produced by their neighbors as their main energy source, employing part of the citric acid cycle to do so.165–168 These two populations evidently function symbiotically: The hypoxic cancer cells
depend on glucose for fuel and secrete lactate as waste, which is
imported and preferentially used as fuel by their better oxygenated
brethren. Although this provocative mode of intratumoral symbiosis has yet to be generalized, the cooperation between lactatesecreting and lactate-utilizing cells to fuel tumor growth is in fact
not an invention of tumors, but rather again reflects the co-opting
of a normal physiologic mechanism, in this case one operative in
muscle165,167,168 and the brain.169 Additionally, it is becoming apparent that oxygenation, ranging from normoxia to hypoxia, is not
necessarily static in tumors, but instead fluctuates temporally and
regionally,170 likely as a result of the instability and chaotic organization of the tumor-associated neovasculature.
Finally, the notion of the Warburg effect needs to be refined
for most if not all tumors exhibiting aerobic glycolysis. The effect
does not involve a switching off oxidative phosphorylation concurrent with activation of glycolysis, the latter then serving as the
sole source of energy. Rather, cancer cells become highly adaptive, utilizing both mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and
glycolysis in varying proportions to generate fuel (ATP) and biosynthetic precursors needed for chronic cell proliferation. Finally,
this capability for reprograming energy metabolism, dubbed to be
an emerging hallmark in 2011,2 is clearly intertwined with the hallmarks conveying deregulated proliferative signals and evasion of
growth suppressors, as discussed earlier. As such, its status as a discrete, independently acquired hallmark remains unclear, despite
growing appreciation of its importance as a crucial component of
the neoplastic growth state.

Evading Immune Destruction
The eighth hallmark reflects the role played by the immune system
in antagonizing the formation and progression of tumors. A longstanding theory of immune surveillance posited that cells and tissues are constantly monitored by an ever alert immune system, and
that such immune surveillance is responsible for recognizing and
eliminating the vast majority of incipient cancer cells and, thus,
nascent tumors.171,172 According to this logic, clinical detectable
cancers have somehow managed to avoid detection by the various
arms of the immune system, or have been able to limit the extent
of immunologic killing, thereby evading eradication.
The role of defective immunologic monitoring of tumors would
seem to be validated by the striking increases of certain cancers in
immune-compromised individuals.173 However, the great majority
of these are virus-induced cancers, suggesting that much of the
control of this class of cancers normally depends on reducing viral
burden in infected individuals, in part through eliminating virusinfected cells. These observations, therefore, shed little light on

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

the possible role of the immune system in limiting formation of
the >80% of tumors of nonviral etiology. In recent years, however,
an increasing body of evidence, both from genetically engineered
mice and from clinical epidemiology, suggests that the immune
system operates as a significant barrier to tumor formation and progression, at least in some forms of non–virus-induced cancer.174–177
When mice genetically engineered to be deficient for various
components of the immune system were assessed for the development of carcinogen-induced tumors, it was observed that tumors
arose more frequently and/or grew more rapidly in the immunodeficient mice relative to immune-competent controls. In particular,
deficiencies in the development or function of either CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL), CD4+ TH1 helper T cells, or natural
killer (NK) cells, each led to demonstrable increases in tumor incidence. Moreover, mice with combined immunodeficiencies in
both T cells and NK cells were even more susceptible to cancer
development. The results indicated that, at least in certain experimental models, both the innate and adaptive cellular arms of the
immune system are able to contribute significantly to immune surveillance and, thus, tumor eradication.142,178
In addition, transplantation experiments have shown that cancer cells that originally arose in immunodeficient mice are often
inefficient at initiating secondary tumors in syngeneic immunocompetent hosts, whereas cancer cells from tumors arising in
immunocompetent mice are equally efficient at initiating transplanted tumors in both types of hosts.142,178 Such behavior has been
interpreted as follows: Highly immunogenic cancer cell clones
are routinely eliminated in immunocompetent hosts—a process
that has been referred to as immunoediting—leaving behind only
weakly immunogenic variants to grow and generate solid tumors.
Such weakly immunogenic cells can thereafter successfully colonize both immunodeficient and immunocompetent hosts. Conversely, when arising in immunodeficient hosts, the immunogenic
cancer cells are not selectively depleted and can, instead, prosper
along with their weakly immunogenic counterparts. When cells
from such nonedited tumors are serially transplanted into syngeneic recipients, the immunogenic cancer cells are rejected when
they confront, for the first time, the competent immune systems of
their secondary hosts.179 (Unanswered in these particular experiments is the question of whether the chemical carcinogens used
to induce such tumors are prone to generate cancer cells that are
especially immunogenic.)
Clinical epidemiology also increasingly supports the existence
of antitumoral immune responses in some forms of human cancer.180–182 For example, patients with colon and ovarian tumors
that are heavily infiltrated with CTLs and NK cells have a better prognosis than those who lack such abundant killer lymphocytes.176,177,182,183 The case for other cancers is suggestive but less
compelling and is the subject of ongoing investigation. Additionally, some immunosuppressed organ transplant recipients have
been observed to develop donor-derived cancers, suggesting that
in ostensibly tumor-free organ donors, the cancer cells were held
in check in a dormant state by a functional immune system,184
only to launch into proliferative expansion once these passenger
cells in the transplanted organ found themselves in immunocompromised patients who lack the physiologically important capabilities to mount immune responses that would otherwise hold latent
cancer cells in check or eradicate them.
Still, the epidemiology of chronically immunosuppressed patients does not indicate significantly increased incidences of the
major forms of nonviral human cancers, as noted previously. This
might be taken as an argument against the importance of immune
surveillance as an effective barrier to tumorigenesis and tumor
progression. We note, however, that HIV and pharmacologically
immunosuppressed patients are predominantly immunodeficient
in the T- and B-cell compartments and thus do not present with
the multicomponent immunologic deficiencies that have been
produced in the genetically engineered mutant mice lacking both
NK cells and CTLs. This leaves open the possibility that such

33

patients still have residual capability for mounting an anticancer
immunologic defense that is mediated by NK and other innate
immune cells.
In truth, the previous discussions of cancer immunology
simplify tumor–host immunologic interactions, because highly
immunogenic cancer cells may well succeed in evading immune
destruction by disabling components of the immune system that
have been dispatched to eliminate them. For example, cancer cells
may paralyze infiltrating CTLs and NK cells by secreting TGF-β
or other immunosuppressive factors.32,185,186 Alternatively, cancer
cells may express immunosuppressive cell-surface ligands, such
as PD-L1, that prevent activation of the cytotoxic mechanisms of
the CTLs. These PD-L1 molecules serve as ligands for the PD-1
receptors displayed by the CTLs, together exemplifying a system
of checkpoint ligands and receptors that serve to constrain immune
responses in order to avoid autoimmunity.187–189 Yet other localized
immunosuppressive mechanisms operate through the recruitment
of inflammatory cells that can actively suppress CTL activity, including regulatory T cells (Tregs) and myeloid-derived suppressor
cells (MDSC).174,190–193
In summary, these eight hallmarks each contribute qualitatively distinct capabilities that seem integral to most lethal forms
of human cancer. Certainly, the balance and relative importance
of their respective contributions to disease pathogenesis will vary
among cancer types, and some hallmarks may be absent or of
minor importance in some cases. Still, there is reason to postulate their generality and, thus, their applicability to understanding
the biology of human cancer. Next, we turn to the question of
how these capabilities are acquired during the multistep pathways
through which cancers develop, focusing on two facilitators that
are commonly involved.

TWO UBIQUITOUS CHARACTERISTICS
FACILITATE THE ACQUISITION OF
HALLMARK CAPABILITIES
We have defined the hallmarks of cancer as acquired functional
capabilities that allow cancer cells to survive, proliferate, and
disseminate. Their acquisition is made possible by two enabling
characteristics (Fig. 2.2). Most prominent is the development of
genomic instability in cancer cells, which generates random mutations, including chromosomal rearrangements, among which
are rare genetic changes that can orchestrate individual hallmark capabilities. A second enabling characteristic involves the
inflammatory state of premalignant and frankly malignant lesions.
A variety of cells of the innate and adaptive immune system infiltrate neoplasias, some of which serve to promote tumor progression through various means.

An Enabling Characteristic: Genome
Instability and Mutation
Acquisition of the multiple hallmarks enumerated previously
depends in large part on a succession of alterations in the genomes
of neoplastic cells. Basically, certain mutant genotypes can confer
selective advantage to particular subclones among proliferating
nests of incipient cancer cells, enabling their outgrowth and eventual dominance in a local tissue environment. Accordingly, multistep tumor progression can be portrayed as a succession of clonal
expansions, most of which are triggered by the chance acquisition
of an enabling mutation.
Indeed, it is apparent that virtually every human cancer cell
genome carries mutant alleles of one or several growth-regulating
genes, underscoring the central importance of these genetic
alterations in driving malignant progression.194 Still, we note that
many heritable phenotypes—including, notably, inactivation of
tumor suppressor genes—can be acquired through epigenetic

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

Chapter 2 Hallmarks of Cancer: An Organizing Principle for Cancer Medicine

34

Principles of Oncology

Figure 2.2 Enabling characteristics. Two osten-

Genome instability
and mutation

Tumor-promoting
inflammation

Enabling Characteristics

mechanisms, such as DNA methylation and histone modifications.195–198 Thus, many clonal expansions may also be triggered by
heritable nonmutational changes affecting the regulation of gene
expression. At present, the relative importance of genetic versus
heritable epigenetic alterations to the various clonal expansions
remains unclear, and likely, varies broadly amongst the catalog of
human cancer types.
The extraordinary ability of genome maintenance systems to
detect and resolve defects in the DNA ensures that rates of spontaneous mutation in normal cells of the body are typically very low,
both in quiescent cells and during cell division. The genomes of
most cancer cells, by contrast, are replete with these alterations,
reflecting loss of genomic integrity with concomitantly increased
rates of mutation. This heightened mutability appears to accelerate the generation of variant cells, facilitating the selection of those
cells whose advantageous phenotypes enable their clonal expansion.199,200 This mutability is achieved through increased sensitivity to mutagenic agents, through a breakdown in one or several
components of the genomic maintenance machinery, or both. In
addition, the accumulation of mutations can be accelerated by aberrations that compromise the surveillance systems that normally
monitor genomic integrity and force such genetically damaged
cells into either quiescence, senescence, or apoptosis.201–203 The
role of TP53 is central here, leading to its being called the guardian of the genome.204
A diverse array of defects affecting various components of the
DNA-maintenance machinery, referred to as the caretakers of
the genome,205 have been documented. The catalog of defects
in these caretaker genes includes those whose products are
involved in (1) detecting DNA damage and activating the repair
machinery, (2) directly repairing damaged DNA, and (3) inactivating or intercepting mutagenic molecules before they have
damaged the DNA.199,201,202,206–208 From a genetic perspective,
these caretaker genes behave much like tumor suppressor genes,
in that their functions are often lost during the course of tumor
progression, with such losses being achieved either through
inactivating mutations or via epigenetic repression. Mutant copies of many of these caretaker genes have been introduced into
the mouse germ line, resulting, not unexpectedly, in increased
cancer incidence, thus supporting their involvement in human
cancer development.209
In addition, research over the past decade has revealed another
major source of tumor-associated genomic instability. As described
earlier, the loss of telomeric DNA in many tumors generates
karyotypic instability and associated amplification and deletion of
chromosomal segments.58 When viewed in this light, telomerase
is more than an enabler of the hallmark capability for unlimited
replicative potential. It must also be added to the list of critical
caretakers responsible for maintaining genome integrity.

sibly generic characteristics of cancer cells and the
neoplasias they create are involved in the acquisition
of the hallmark capabilities. First and foremost, the
impairment of genome maintenance systems in
aberrantly proliferating cancer cells enables the
generation of mutations in genes that contribute
to multiple hallmarks. Secondarily, neoplasias
invariably attract cells of the innate immune system
that are programmed to heal wounds and fight
infections; these cells, including macrophages,
neutrophils, and partially differentiated myeloid
cells, can contribute functionally to acquisition of
many of the hallmark capabilities. (Adapted from
Hanahan D, Weinberg RA. Hallmarks of cancer: the
next generation. Cell 2011;144:646–674.)

Advances in the molecular–genetic analysis of cancer cell
genomes have provided the most compelling demonstrations of
function-altering mutations and of ongoing genomic instability
during tumor progression. One type of analysis—comparative
genomic hybridization (CGH)—documents the gains and losses
of gene copy number across the cell genome. In many tumors,
the pervasive genomic aberrations revealed by CGH provide clear
evidence for loss of control of genome integrity. Importantly, the
recurrence of specific aberrations (both amplifications and deletions) at particular locations in the genome indicates that such
sites are likely to harbor genes whose alteration favors neoplastic
progression.210
More recently, with the advent of efficient and economical
DNA sequencing technologies, higher resolution analyses of cancer cell genomes have become possible. Early studies are revealing distinctive patterns of DNA mutations in different tumor types
(see: http://cancergenome.nih.gov/). In the not-too-distant future,
the sequencing of entire cancer cell genomes promises to clarify
the importance of ostensibly random mutations scattered across
cancer cell genomes.194 Thus, the use of whole genome resequencing offers the prospect of revealing recurrent genetic alterations (i.e., those found in multiple independently arising tumors)
that in aggregate represent only minor proportions of the tumors of
a given type. The recurrence of such mutations, despite their infrequency, may provide clues about the regulatory pathways playing
causal roles in the pathogenesis of the tumors under study.
These surveys of cancer cell genomes have shown that the
specifics of genome alteration vary dramatically between different
tumor types. Nonetheless, the large number of already documented
genome maintenance and repair defects, together with abundant
evidence of widespread destabilization of gene copy number and
nucleotide sequence, persuade us that instability of the genome is
inherent to the cancer cells forming virtually all types of human
tumors. This leads, in turn, to the conclusion that the defects in
genome maintenance and repair are selectively advantageous and,
therefore, instrumental for tumor progression, if only because they
accelerate the rate at which evolving premalignant cells can accumulate favorable genotypes. As such, genome instability is clearly
an enabling characteristic that is causally associated with the acquisition of hallmark capabilities.

An Enabling Characteristic: Tumor-Promoting
Inflammation
Among the cells recruited to the stroma of carcinomas are a
variety of cell types of the immune system that mediate various inflammatory functions. Pathologists have long recognized
that some (but not all) tumors are densely infiltrated by cells

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

35

Chapter 2 Hallmarks of Cancer: An Organizing Principle for Cancer Medicine

THE CONSTITUENT CELL TYPES OF THE
TUMOR MICROENVIRONMENT
Over the past 2 decades, tumors have increasingly been recognized as tissues whose complexity approaches and may even
exceed that of normal healthy tissues. This realization contrasts
starkly with the earlier, reductionist view of a tumor as nothing
more than a collection of relatively homogeneous cancer cells,
whose entire biology could be understood by elucidating the
cell-autonomous properties of these cells (Fig. 2.3A). Rather,
assemblages of diverse cell types associated with malignant lesions are increasingly documented to be functionally important
for the manifestation of symptomatic disease (Fig. 2.3B). When
viewed from this perspective, the biology of a tumor can only be
fully understood by studying the individual specialized cell types
within it. We enumerate as follows a set of accessory cell types
recruited directly or indirectly by neoplastic cells into tumors,
where they contribute in important ways to the biology of many
tumors, and we discuss the regulatory mechanisms that control
their individual and collective functions. Most of these observations stem from the study of carcinomas, in which the neoplastic
epithelial cells constitute a compartment (the parenchyma) that
is clearly distinct from the mesenchymal cells forming the tumorassociated stroma.

A simple view of cancer
Cancer cell (CC)

A

Invasive cancer cell

A more realistic view of cancer
Cancer stem cell (CSC)
Cancer-associated
fibroblast (CAF)
Endothelial
cell (EC)
Pericyte (PC)

B

Local & bone marrow
derived stromal
progenitor cells

Cancer cell (CC)

Immune
inflammatory
cells (IC)

Invasive cancer cell

Figure 2.3 Tumors as outlaw organs. Research aimed at understanding
the biology of tumors has historically focused on the cancer cells, which
constitute the drivers of neoplastic disease. This view of tumors as nothing
more than masses of cancer cells (A) ignores an important reality, that
cancer cells recruit and corrupt a variety of normal cell types that form the
tumor-associated stroma. Once formed, the stroma acts reciprocally on
the cancer cells, affecting almost all of the traits that define the neoplastic
behavior of the tumor as a whole (B). The assemblage of heterogeneous
populations of cancer cells and stromal cells is often referred to as the
tumor microenvironment (TME). (Adapted from Hanahan D, Weinberg R.
The hallmarks of cancer. Cell 2000;100:57–70; Hanahan D, Weinberg RA.
Hallmarks of cancer: the next generation. Cell 2011;144:646–674.)

Cancer-Associated Fibroblasts
Fibroblasts are found in various proportions across the spectrum of
carcinomas, in many cases constituting the preponderant cell population of the tumor stroma. The term cancer-associated fibroblasts
(CAFs) subsumes at least two distinct cell types: (1) cells with
similarities to the fibroblasts that create the structural foundation
supporting most normal epithelial tissues, and (2) myofibroblasts,
whose biologic roles and properties differ markedly from those of
the widely distributed tissue-derived fibroblasts. Myofibroblasts are
identifiable by their expression of α-smooth muscle actin (αSMA).
They are rare in most healthy epithelial tissues, although certain
tissues, such as the liver and pancreas, contain appreciable numbers of αSMA-expressing cells. Myofibroblasts transiently increase
in abundance in wounds and are also found in sites of chronic
inflammation. Although beneficial to tissue repair, myofibroblasts
are problematic in chronic inflammation, in that they contribute
to the pathologic fibrosis observed in tissues such as the lung,
kidney, and liver.
Recruited myofibroblasts and variants of normal tissue-derived
fibroblastic cells have been demonstrated to enhance tumor phenotypes, notably cancer cell proliferation, angiogenesis, invasion,

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

of both the innate and adaptive arms of the immune system,
thereby mirroring inflammatory conditions arising in nonneoplastic tissues.211 With the advent of better markers for accurately identifying the distinct cell types of the immune system,
it is now clear that virtually every neoplastic lesion contains
immune cells present at densities ranging from subtle infiltrations detectable only with cell type–specific antibodies to gross
inflammations that are apparent even by standard histochemical staining techniques.183 Historically, such immune responses
were largely thought to reflect an attempt by the immune system
to eradicate tumors, and indeed, there is increasing evidence for
antitumoral responses to many tumor types with an attendant
pressure on the tumor to evade immune destruction,174,176,177,183
as discussed earlier.
By 2000, however, there were also clues that tumor-associated
inflammatory responses can have the unanticipated effect of
facilitating multiple steps of tumor progression, thereby helping incipient neoplasias to acquire hallmark capabilities. In the
ensuing years, research on the intersections between inflammation and cancer pathogenesis has blossomed, producing
abundant and compelling demonstrations of the functionally
important tumor-promoting effects that immune cells—largely
of the innate immune system—have on neoplastic progression.19,53,94,174,212,213 Inflammatory cells can contribute to multiple hallmark capabilities by supplying signaling molecules to
the tumor microenvironment, including growth factors that sustain proliferative signaling; survival factors that limit cell death;
proangiogenic factors; extracellular matrix-modifying enzymes
that facilitate angiogenesis, invasion, and metastasis; and inductive signals that lead to activation of EMT and other hallmarkpromoting programs.53,94,116,212,213
Importantly, localized inflammation is often apparent at the
earliest stages of neoplastic progression and is demonstrably
capable of fostering the development of incipient neoplasias
into full-blown cancers.94,214 Additionally, inflammatory cells
can release chemicals—notably, reactive oxygen species—that
are actively mutagenic for nearby cancer cells, thus accelerating their genetic evolution toward states of heightened malignancy.53 As such, inflammation by selective cell types of the
immune system is demonstrably an enabling characteristic for
its contributions to the acquisition of hallmark capabilities. The
cells responsible for this enabling characteristic are described in
the following section.

36

Principles of Oncology

and metastasis. Their tumor-promoting activities have largely
been defined by transplantation of cancer-associated fibroblasts
admixed with cancer cells into mice, and more recently by genetic
and pharmacologic perturbation of their functions in tumor-prone
mice.8,121,133,215–219 Because they secrete a variety of ECM components, cancer-associated fibroblasts are implicated in the formation of the desmoplastic stroma that characterizes many advanced
carcinomas. The full spectrum of functions contributed by both
subtypes of cancer-associated fibroblasts to tumor pathogenesis remains to be elucidated.

Endothelial Cells
Prominent among the stromal constituents of the TME are the
endothelial cells forming the tumor-associated vasculature. Quiescent tissue capillary endothelial cells are activated by angiogenic
regulatory factors to produce a neovasculature that sustains tumor
growth concomitant with continuing endothelial cell proliferation
and vessel morphogenesis. A network of interconnected signaling
pathways involving ligands of signal-transducing receptors (e.g.,
the Angiopoeitin-1/2, Notch ligands, Semaphorin, Neuropilin,
Robo, and Ephrin-A/B) is now known to be involved in regulating quiescent versus activated angiogenic endothelial cells, in addition to the aforementioned counterbalancing VEGF and TSP
signals. This network of signaling pathways has been functionally
implicated in developmental and tumor-associated angiogenesis,
further illustrating the complex regulation of endothelial cell
phenotypes.220–224
Other avenues of research are revealing distinctive gene expression profiles of tumor-associated endothelial cells and identifying
cell-surface markers displayed on the luminal surfaces of normal
versus tumor endothelial cells.78,225,226 Differences in signaling, in
transcriptome profiles, and in vascular ZIP codes will likely prove
to be important for understanding the conversion of normal endothelial cells into tumor-associated endothelial cells. Such knowledge may lead, in turn, to opportunities to develop novel therapies
that exploit these differences in order to selectively target tumorassociated endothelial cells. Additionally, the activated (angiogenic)
tumor vasculature has been revealed as a barrier to efficient intravasation and a functional suppressor of cytotoxic T cells,227 and
thus, tumor endothelial cells can contribute to the hallmark capability for evading immune destruction. As such, another emerging
concept is to normalize rather than ablate them, so as to improve
immunotherapy190 as well as delivery of chemotherapy.228
Closely related to the endothelial cells of the circulatory system
are those forming lymphatic vessels.229 Their role in the tumorassociated stroma, specifically in supporting tumor growth, is
poorly understood. Indeed, because of high interstitial pressure
within solid tumors, intratumoral lymphatic vessels are typically
collapsed and nonfunctional; in contrast, however, there are often
functional, actively growing (lymphangiogenic) lymphatic vessels
at the periphery of tumors and in the adjacent normal tissues that
cancer cells invade. These associated lymphatics likely serve as
channels for the seeding of metastatic cells in the draining lymph
nodes that are commonly observed in a number of cancer types.
Recent results that are yet to be generalized suggest an alternative
role for the activated (i.e., lymphangiogenic) lymphatic endothelial
cells associated with tumors, not in supporting tumor growth like
the blood vessels, but in inducing (via VEGF-C–mediated signaling) a lymphatic tissue microenvironment that suppresses immune
responses ordinarily marshaled from the draining lymph nodes.230
As such, the real value to a tumor from activating the signaling circuit involving the ligand VEGF-C and its receptor VEGFR3 may
be to facilitate the evasion of antitumor immunity by abrogating
the otherwise immunostimulatory functions of draining lymphatic
vessels and lymph nodes, with the collateral effect of inducing lymphatic endothelial cells to form the new lymphatic vessels that are
commonly detected in association with tumors.

Pericytes
Pericytes represent a specialized mesenchymal cell type that are
closely related to smooth muscle cells, with fingerlike projections
that wrap around the endothelial tubing of blood vessels. In normal
tissues, pericytes are known to provide paracrine support signals to
the quiescent endothelium. For example, Ang-1 secreted by pericytes conveys antiproliferative stabilizing signals that are received
by the Tie2 receptors expressed on the surface of endothelial
cells. Some pericytes also produce low levels of VEGF that serve
a trophic function in endothelial homeostasis.93,231 Pericytes also
collaborate with the endothelial cells to synthesize the vascular
basement membrane that anchors both pericytes and endothelial
cells and helps vessel walls to withstand the hydrostatic pressure
created by the blood.
Genetic and pharmacologic perturbation of the recruitment
and association of pericytes has demonstrated the functional
importance of these cells in supporting the tumor endothelium.93,217,231 For example, the pharmacologic inhibition of signaling through the platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) receptor
expressed by tumor pericytes and bone marrow–derived pericyte
progenitors results in reduced pericyte coverage of tumor vessels,
which in turn destabilizes vascular integrity and function.91,217,231
Interestingly, and in contrast, the pericytes of normal vessels are
not prone to such pharmacologic disruption, providing another
example of the differences in the regulation of normal quiescent
and tumor vasculature. An intriguing hypothesis, still to be fully
substantiated, is that tumors with poor pericyte coverage of their
vasculature may be more prone to permit cancer cell intravasation
into the circulatory system, thereby enabling subsequent hematogenous dissemination.91,148

Immune Inflammatory Cells
Infiltrating cells of the immune system are increasingly accepted
to be generic constituents of tumors. These inflammatory cells
operate in conflicting ways: Both tumor-antagonizing and tumorpromoting leukocytes can be found in various proportions in
most, if not all, neoplastic lesions. Evidence began to accumulate
in the late 1990s that the infiltration of neoplastic tissues by cells
of the immune system serves, perhaps counterintuitively, to promote tumor progression. Such work traced its conceptual roots
back to the observed association of tumor formation with sites of
chronic inflammation. Indeed, this led some to liken tumors to
“wounds that do not heal.”211,232 In the course of normal wound
healing and the resolution of infections, immune inflammatory
cells appear transiently and then disappear, in contrast to their
persistence in sites of chronic inflammation, where their presence has been associated with a variety of tissue pathologies,
including fibrosis, aberrant angiogenesis, and as mentioned,
neoplasia.53,233
We now know that immune cells play diverse and critical roles
in fostering tumorigenesis. The roster of tumor-promoting inflammatory cells includes macrophage subtypes, mast cells, and neutrophils, as well as T and B lymphocytes.96,97,119,133,212,234,235 Studies
of these cells are yielding a growing list of tumor-promoting signaling molecules that they release, which include the tumor growth
factor EGF, the angiogenic growth factors VEGF-A/-C, other
proangiogenic factors such as FGF2, plus chemokines and cytokines that amplify the inflammatory state. In addition, these cells
may produce proangiogenic and/or proinvasive matrix-degrading
enzymes, including MMP-9 and other MMPs, cysteine cathepsin
proteases, and heparanase.94,96 Consistent with the expression of
these diverse signals, tumor-infiltrating inflammatory cells have
been shown to induce and help sustain tumor angiogenesis, to
stimulate cancer cell proliferation, to facilitate tissue invasion,
and to support the metastatic dissemination and seeding of cancer
cells.94,96,97,119,120,234–237

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 2 Hallmarks of Cancer: An Organizing Principle for Cancer Medicine

Stem and Progenitor Cells of the
Tumor Stroma
The various stromal cell types that constitute the tumor microenvironment may be recruited from adjacent normal tissue—the most
obvious reservoir of such cell types. However, in recent years, bone
marrow (BM) has increasingly been implicated as a key source
of tumor-associated stromal cells.99,100,240–243 Thus, mesenchymal
stem and progenitor cells can be recruited into tumors from BM,
where they may subsequently differentiate into the various wellcharacterized stromal cell types. Some of these recent arrivals may
also persist in an undifferentiated or partially differentiated state,
exhibiting functions that their more differentiated progeny lack.
The BM origins of stromal cell types have been demonstrated
using tumor-bearing mice in which the BM cells (and thus their
disseminated progeny) have been selectively labeled with reporters
such as green fluorescent protein (GFP). Although immune inflammatory cells have been long known to derive from BM, more
recently progenitors of endothelial cells, pericytes, and several
subtypes of cancer-associated fibroblasts have also been shown to
originate from BM in various mouse models of cancer.100,240–243
The prevalence and functional importance of endothelial progenitors for tumor angiogenesis is, however, currently unresolved.99,242
Taken together, these various lines of evidence indicate that
tumor-associated stromal cells may be supplied to growing tumors
by the proliferation of preexisting stromal cells or via recruitment
of BM-derived stem/progenitor cells.
In summary, it is evident that virtually all cancers, including
even the liquid tumors of hematopoietic malignancies, depend not
only on neoplastic cells for their pathogenic effects, but also on
diverse cell types recruited from local and distant tissue sources
to assemble specialized, supporting tumor microenvironments.
Importantly, the composition of stromal cell types supporting a
particular cancer evidently varies considerably from one tumor
type to another; even within a particular type, the patterns and
abundance can be informative about malignant grade and prognosis. The inescapable conclusion is that cancer cells are not fully

autonomous, and rather depend to various degrees on stromal cells
of the tumor microenvironment, which can contribute functionally to seven of the eight hallmarks of cancer (Fig. 2.4).

Heterotypic Signaling Orchestrates the Cells
of the Tumor Microenvironment
Every cell in our bodies is governed by an elaborate intracellular signaling circuit—in effect, its own microcomputer. In cancer cells, key
subcircuits in this integrated circuit are reprogrammed so as to activate and sustain hallmark capabilities. These changes are induced by
mutations in the cells’ genomes, by epigenetic alterations affecting
gene expression, and by the receipt of a diverse array of signals from
the tumor microenvironment. Figure 2.5A illustrates some of the
circuits that are reprogrammed to enable cancer cells to proliferate
chronically, to avoid proliferative brakes and cell death, and to become invasive and metastatic. Similarly, the intracellular integrated
circuits that regulate the actions of stromal cells are also evidently
reprogrammed. Current evidence suggests that stromal cell reprogramming is primarily affected by extracellular cues and epigenetic
alterations in gene expression, rather than gene mutation.
Given the alterations in the signaling within both neoplastic cells
and their stromal neighbors, a tumor can be depicted as a network
of interconnected (cellular) microcomputers. This dictates that a
complete elucidation of a particular tumor’s biology will require far
more than an elucidation of the aberrantly functioning integrated
circuits within its neoplastic cells. Accordingly, the rapidly growing catalog of the function-enabling genetic mutations within
cancer cell genomes194 provides only one dimension to this problem. A reasonably complete, graphical depiction of the network of
microenvironmental signaling interactions remains far beyond our
reach, because the great majority of signaling molecules and their
circuitry are still to be identified. Instead, we provide a hint of such
interactions in Figure 2.5B. These few well-established examples
are intended to exemplify a signaling network of remarkable complexity that is of critical importance to tumor pathogenesis.

Coevolution of the Tumor Microenvironment
During Carcinogenesis
The tumor microenvironment described previously is not static
during multistage tumor development and progression, thus creating another dimension of complexity. Rather, the abundance and
functional contributions of the stromal cells populating neoplastic
lesions will likely vary during progression in two respects. First,
as the neoplastic cells evolve, there will be a parallel coevolution
occurring in the stroma, as indicated by the shifting composition
of stroma-associated cell types. Second, as cancer cells enter into
different locations, they encounter distinct stromal microenvironments. Thus, the microenvironment in the interior of a primary
tumor will likely be distinct both from locally invasive breakout
lesions and from the one encountered by disseminated cells in
distant organs (Fig. 2.6A). This dictates that the observed histopathologic progression of a tumor reflects underlying changes in
heterotypic signaling between tumor parenchyma and stroma.
We envision back-and-forth reciprocal interactions between the
neoplastic cells and the supporting stromal cells that change during
the course of multistep tumor development and progression, as depicted in Figure 2.6B. Thus, incipient neoplasias begin the interplay
by recruiting and activating stromal cell types that assemble into an
initial preneoplastic stroma, which in turn responds reciprocally by
enhancing the neoplastic phenotypes of the nearby cancer cells. The
cancer cells, in response, may then undergo further genetic evolution, causing them to feed signals back to the stroma. Ultimately, signals originating in the stroma of primary tumors enable cancer cells
to invade normal adjacent tissues and disseminate, seeding distant
tissues and, with low efficiency, metastatic colonies (see Fig. 2.6B).

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

In addition to fully differentiated immune cells present in tumor
stroma, a variety of partially differentiated myeloid progenitors have
been identified in tumors.96 Such cells represent intermediaries
between circulating cells of bone marrow origin and the differentiated immune cells typically found in normal and inflamed tissues. Importantly, these progenitors, like their more differentiated
derivatives, have demonstrable tumor-promoting activity. Of particular interest, a class of tumor-infiltrating myeloid cells has been
shown to suppress CTL and NK cell activity, having been identified as MDSCs that function to block the attack on tumors by the
adaptive (i.e., CTL) and innate (i.e., NK) arms of the immune
system.94,133,193 Hence, recruitment of certain myeloid cells may be
doubly beneficial for the developing tumor, by directly promoting
angiogenesis and tumor progression, while at the same time affording a means of evading immune destruction.
These conflicting roles of the immune system in confronting
tumors would seem to reflect similar situations that arise routinely
in normal tissues. Thus, the immune system detects and targets
infectious agents through cells of the adaptive immune response.
Cells of the innate immune system, in contrast, are involved in
wound healing and in clearing dead cells and cellular debris. The
balance between the conflicting immune responses within particular tumor types (and indeed in individual patients’ tumors) is
likely to prove critical in determining the characteristics of tumor
growth and the stepwise progression to stages of heightened aggressiveness (i.e., invasion and metastasis). Moreover, there is increasing evidence supporting the proposition that this balance can be
modulated for therapeutic purposes in order to redirect or reprogram the immune response to focus its functional capabilities on
destroying tumors.133,238,239

37

38

Principles of Oncology
Cancer-associated
fibroblastic cells
Infiltrating
immune cells

Tumor-associated
vascular cells

Sustaining
proliferative
signaling
Deregulating
cellular
energetics

Evading
growth
suppressors

Resisting
cell
death

Avoiding
immune
destruction

Inducing
angiogenesis
Activating
invasion &
metastasis

Enabling
replicative
immortality

Figure 2.4 Diverse contributions of stromal cells to the hallmarks of cancer. Of the eight hallmark capabilities acquired
by cancer cells, seven depend on contributions by stromal cells forming the tumor microenvironment.2,213 The stromal
cells can be divided into three general classes: infiltrating immune cells, cancer-associated fibroblastic cells, and tumorassociated vascular cells. The association of these corrupted cell types with the acquisition of individual hallmark
capabilities has been documented through a variety of experimental approaches that are often supported by descriptive
studies in human cancers. The relative importance of each of these stromal cell classes to a particular hallmark varies
according to tumor type and stage of progression. (Adapted from Hanahan D, Coussens LM. Accessories to the crime:
functions of cells recruited to the tumor microenvironment. Cancer Cell 2012;21:309–322.)

The circulating cancer cells that are released from primary
tumors leave a microenvironment supported by this coevolved
stroma. Upon landing in a distant organ, however, disseminated
cancer cells must find a means to grow in a quite different tissue
microenvironment. In some cases, newly seeded cancer cells must
survive and expand in naïve, fully normal tissue microenvironments. In other cases, the newly encountered tissue microenvironments may already be supportive of such disseminated cancer
cells, having been preconditioned prior to their arrival. Such permissive sites have been referred to as premetastatic niches.146,244,245
These supportive niches may already preexist in distant tissues for
various physiologic reasons,101 including the actions of circulating
factors dispatched systemically by primary tumors.245
The fact that signaling interactions between cancer cells and
their supporting stroma are likely to evolve during the course of
multistage primary tumor development and metastatic colonization clearly complicates the goal of fully elucidating the mechanisms of cancer pathogenesis. For example, this complexity
poses challenges to systems biologists seeking to chart the crucial

regulatory networks that orchestrate malignant progression, because much of the critical signaling is not intrinsic to cancer cells
and instead operates through the interactions that these cells establish with their neighbors.

Cancer Cells, Cancer Stem Cells, and
Intratumoral Heterogeneity
Cancer cells are the foundation of the disease. They initiate neoplastic development and drive tumor progression forward, having acquired the oncogenic and tumor suppressor mutations that
define cancer as a genetic disease. Traditionally, the cancer cells
within tumors have been portrayed as reasonably homogeneous
cell populations until relatively late in the course of tumor progression, when hyperproliferation combined with increased genetic instability spawn genetically distinct clonal subpopulations.
Reflecting such clonal heterogeneity, many human tumors are histopathologically diverse, containing regions demarcated by various

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

39

Chapter 2 Hallmarks of Cancer: An Organizing Principle for Cancer Medicine

Motility circuits

Proteases

Cytostasis and
differentiation
circuits
Antigrowth
factors

Apc

Adjacent cells
Extracellular
matrix

p16

Integrins

Proliferation
circuits Receptor
Growth
factors

TCF4

b-catenin

E-cadherin

tyrosine
kinases

Cyclin D

Smads

pRb
E2F

p21
DNA damage
sensor
Hallmark
capabilities p53

Changes
in gene
expression

Ras
Myc

Survival factors

Bcl-2
Death
factors

Abnormality
sensor

Cytokines

Viability circuits

A

Cancer cells

EGF

HGF
Hh, PDGF

CSF-1, IL-1β
Proteases
Tumor-promoting
inflammatory cells

TGF-β
Cancer-associated
fibroblasts

VEGF
ECM/BM
Proteases

Seq. GFs

TGF-β

CXCL12
VEGF

IL-1β
VEGF

FGF2

Ang-1

B

Endothelial
cells

PDGF

Pericytes

Figure 2.5 Reprogramming intracellular circuits and cell-to-cell signaling pathways dictates tumor inception and progression. An elaborate integrated
circuit operating within normal cells is reprogrammed to regulate the hallmark capabilities acquired by cancer cells (A) and by associated stromal
cells. Separate subcircuits, depicted here in differently colored fields, are specialized to orchestrate distinct capabilities. At one level, this depiction is
simplistic, because there is considerable cross-talk between such subcircuits. More broadly, the integrated circuits operating inside cancer cells and
stromal cells are interconnected via a complex network of signals transmitted by the various cells in the tumor microenvironment (in some cases via
the extracellular matrix [ECM] and basement membranes [BM] they synthesize), of which a few signals are exemplified (B). HGF, hepatocyte growth
factor for the cMet receptor; Hh, hedgehog ligand for the Patched (PTCH) receptor; Seq. GF, growth factors sequested in the ECM/BM. (Adapted from
Hanahan D, Weinberg RA. Hallmarks of cancer: the next generation. Cell 2011;144:646–674.)

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

Hormones

40

Principles of Oncology

Primary tumor
microenvironment

A

Invasive tumor
microenvironment

Metastatic tumor
microenvironment

Metastatic dissemination

Parenchyma

Incipient
cancer
cells

Recruitment of
stromal cells
to the lesion

Stroma

Stromal
reservoirs
in tissue &
bone marrow

Invasive
cancer
cells

Cancer
cells

Heterotypic
interactions
fueling
concerted
progression

Nascent
stroma of
1° tumor

Activated
stroma of
1° tumor

CC/CSC of
micro-mets

Invasive
CC/CSC of
macro-mets

Recruitment of
stromal cells
to seeded
metastasis

Heterotypic
signaling of
metastatic
growth

Stromal
reservoirs
in tissue &
bone marrow

Primary Tumorigenesis

Nascent
stroma of
metastasis

2nd wave
of
metastasis

Activated
stroma of
metastasis

Metastasis

B
Figure 2.6 The dynamic variation and coevolution of the tumor microenvironment during the lesional progression of cancer. (A) Interactions
between multiple stromal cell types and heterogeneously evolving mutant cancer cells create a succession of tumor microenvironments that change
dynamically as tumors are initiated, invade normal tissues, and thereafter seed and colonize distant tissues. The abundance, histologic organization,
and characteristics of the stromal cell types and associated extracellular matrix (hatched background) evolves during progression, thereby enabling
primary, invasive, and then metastatic growth. (B) Importantly, the signaling networks depicted in Figure 2.5 involving cancer cells and their stromal
collaborators change during tumor progression as a result of reciprocal signaling interactions between these various cells. CC, cancer cell; CSC, cancer
stem cell; mets, metastases. (Adapted from Hanahan D, Weinberg RA. Hallmarks of cancer: the next generation. Cell 2011;144:646–674.)

degrees of differentiation, proliferation, vascularity, and invasiveness. In recent years, however, evidence has accumulated pointing
to the existence of a new dimension of intratumor heterogeneity
and a hitherto unappreciated subclass of neoplastic cells within
tumors, termed cancer stem cells (CSC).
CSCs were initially implicated in the pathogenesis of hematopoietic malignancies,246,247 and years later, were identified in solid
tumors, in particular breast carcinomas and neuroectodermal tumors.248,249 The fractionation of cancer cells on the basis of cellsurface markers has yielded subpopulations of neoplastic cells with
a greatly enhanced ability, relative to the corresponding majority
populations of non-CSCs, to seed new tumors upon implantation
in immunodeficient mice. These, often rare, tumor-initiating cells
have proven to share transcriptional profiles with certain normal
tissue stem cells, thus justifying their designation as stemlike.

Although the evidence is still fragmentary, CSCs may prove to
be a constituent of many, if not most tumors, albeit being present
with highly variable abundance. CSCs are defined operationally
through their ability to efficiently seed new tumors upon implantation into recipient host mice.250–253 This functional definition is
often complemented by profiling the expression of certain CSCassociated markers that are typically expressed by the normal stem
cells in the corresponding normal tissues of origin.249 Importantly,
recent in vivo lineage-tracing experiments have provided an additional functional test of CSCs by demonstrating their ability to
spawn large numbers of progeny, including non-CSCs within tumors.250 At the same time, these experiments have provided the
most compelling evidence to date that CSCs exist, and that they
can be defined functionally through tests that do not depend on
the implantation of tumor cells into appropriate mouse hosts.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 2 Hallmarks of Cancer: An Organizing Principle for Cancer Medicine

into endothelial-like cells that can substitute for bona fide hostderived endothelial cells in forming a tumor-associated neovasculature.265–267 These examples suggest that certain tumors may
induce some of their own cancer cells to undergo various types
of metamorphoses in order to generate stromal cell types needed
to support tumor growth and progression, rather than relying on
recruited host cells to provide the requisite hallmark-enabling
functions.
Another form of phenotypic variability resides in the genetic
heterogeneity of cancer cells within a tumor. Genomewide sequencing of cancer cells microdissected from different sectors of
the same tumor145 has revealed striking intratumoral genetic heterogeneity. Some of this genetic diversity may be reflected in the
long recognized histologic heterogeneity within individual human
tumors. Thus, genetic diversification may produce subpopulations of cancer cells that contribute distinct and complementary
capabilities, which then accrue to the common benefit of overall
tumor growth, progression, and resistance to therapy, as described
earlier. Alternatively, such heterogeneity may simply reflect the
genetic chaos that arises as tumor cell genomes become increasingly destabilized.

THERAPEUTIC TARGETING OF THE
HALLMARKS OF CANCER
We do not attempt here to enumerate the myriad therapies that are
currently under development or have been introduced of late into
the clinic. Instead, we consider how the description of hallmark
principles is likely to inform therapeutic development at present and may increasingly do so in the future. Thus, the rapidly
growing armamentarium of therapeutics directed against specific
molecular targets can be categorized according to their respective
effects on one or more hallmark capabilities, as illustrated in the
examples presented in Figure 2.7. Indeed, the observed efficacy
of these drugs represents, in each case, a validation of a particular
capability: If a capability is truly critical to the biology of tumors,
then its inhibition should impair tumor growth and progression.
Unfortunately, however, the clinical responses elicited by these
targeted therapies have generally been transitory, being followed
all too often by relapse. One interpretation, which is supported by
growing experimental evidence, is that each of the core hallmark
capabilities is regulated by a set of partially redundant signaling
pathways. Consequently, a targeted therapeutic agent inhibiting
one key pathway in a tumor may not completely eliminate a hallmark capability, allowing some cancer cells to survive with residual
function until they or their progeny eventually adapt to the selective pressure imposed by the initially applied therapy. Such adaptation can reestablish the expression of the functional capability,
permitting renewed tumor growth and clinical relapse. Because
the number of parallel signaling pathways supporting a given hallmark must be limited, it may become possible to therapeutically
cotarget all of these supporting pathways, thereby preventing the
development of adaptive resistance.
Another dimension of the plasticity of tumors under therapeutic attack is illustrated by the unanticipated responses to antiangiogenic therapy, in which cancer cells reduce their dependence on
this hallmark capability by increasing their dependence on another.
Thus, many observers anticipated that potent inhibition of angiogenesis would starve tumors of vital nutrients and oxygen, forcing
them into dormancy and possibly leading to their dissolution.86,87,268
Instead, the clinical responses to antiangiogenic therapies have
been found to be transitory, followed by relapse, implicating adaptive or evasive resistance mechanisms.220,269–271 One such mechanism of evasive resistance, observed in certain preclinical models
of antiangiogenic therapy, involves reduced dependence on continuing angiogenesis by increasing the activity of two other capabilities: invasiveness and metastasis.269–271 By invading nearby and
distant tissues, initially hypoxic cancer cells gain access to normal,

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

The origins of CSCs within a solid tumor have not been
clarified and, indeed, may well vary from one tumor type to
another.250,251,254 In some tumors, normal tissue stem cells may
serve as the cells of origin that undergo oncogenic transformation
to yield CSCs; in others, partially differentiated transit-amplifying
cells, also termed progenitor cells, may suffer the initial oncogenic
transformation, thereafter assuming more stemlike characters.
Once primary tumors have formed, the CSCs, like their normal
counterparts, may self-renew as well as spawn more differentiated derivatives. In the case of neoplastic CSCs, these descendant
cells form the great bulk of many tumors and thus are responsible
for creating many tumor-associated phenotypes. It remains to be
established whether multiple distinct classes of increasingly neoplastic stem cells form during the inception and subsequent multistep progression of tumors, ultimately yielding the CSCs that have
been described in fully developed cancers.
Recent research has interrelated the acquisition of CSC
traits with the EMT transdifferentiation program discussed previously.250,255 The induction of this program in certain model
systems can induce many of the defining features of stem cells,
including self-renewal ability and the antigenic phenotypes associated with both normal and cancer stem cells. This concordance
suggests that the EMT program may not only enable cancer cells
to physically disseminate from primary tumors, but can also confer
on such cells the self-renewal capability that is crucial to their subsequent role as founders of new neoplastic colonies at sites of dissemination.256 If generalized, this connection raises an important
corollary hypothesis: The heterotypic signals that trigger an EMT,
such as those released by an activated, inflammatory stroma, may
also be important in creating and maintaining CSCs.
An increasing number of human tumors are reported to contain
subpopulations with the properties of CSCs, as defined operationally through their efficient tumor-initiating capabilities upon xenotransplantation into mice. Nevertheless, the importance of CSCs
as a distinct phenotypic subclass of neoplastic cells remains a matter of debate, as does their oft cited rarity within tumors.254,257–259
Indeed, it is plausible that the phenotypic plasticity operating
within tumors may produce bidirectional interconversion between
CSCs and non-CSCs, resulting in dynamic variation in the relative abundance of CSCs.250,260 Such plasticity could complicate a
definitive measurement of their characteristic abundance. Analogous plasticity is already implicated in the EMT program, which
can be engaged reversibly.261
These complexities notwithstanding, it is already evident
that this new dimension of tumor heterogeneity holds important
implications for successful cancer therapies. Increasing evidence
in a variety of tumor types suggests that cells exhibiting the properties of CSCs are more resistant to various commonly used chemotherapeutic treatments.255,262,263 Their persistence following initial
treatment may help to explain the almost inevitable disease recurrence occurring after apparently successful debulking of human
solid tumors by radiation and various forms of chemotherapy.
Moreover, CSCs may well prove to underlie certain forms of tumor
dormancy, whereby latent cancer cells persist for years or even
decades after initial surgical resection or radio/chemotherapy, only
to suddenly erupt and generate life-threatening disease. Hence,
CSCs represent a double threat in that they are more resistant to
therapeutic killing, and at the same time, are endowed with the
ability to regenerate a tumor once therapy has been halted.
This phenotypic plasticity implicit in the CSC state may also
enable the formation of functionally distinct subpopulations within
a tumor that support overall tumor growth in various ways. Thus,
an EMT can convert epithelial carcinoma cells into mesenchymal, fibroblast-like cancer cells that may well assume the duties of
CAFs in some tumors (e.g., pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma).264
Intriguingly, several recent reports that have yet to be thoroughly
validated in terms of generality, functional importance, or prevalence have documented the ability of glioblastoma cells (or possibly their associated CSC subpopulations) to transdifferentiate

41

42

Principles of Oncology

Inhibitors of
oncogenic kinases

Sustaining
proliferative
signaling

Aerobic glycolysis
inhibitors

Reactivators of
mutant p53

Evading
growth
suppressors
Avoiding
immune
destruction

Deregulating
cellular
energetics

Proapoptotic
BH3 mimetics

Activators of immunity
(e.g., αCTLA4, αPD1)

Enabling
replicative
immortality

Resisting
cell
death

Tumorpromoting
inflammation

Genome
instability &
mutation

PARP
inhibitors

Telomerase
Inhibitors

Inducing
angiogenesis

Inhibitors of
VEGF signaling

Activating
invasion &
metastasis

Agents that inhibit
or reprogram

Inhibitors of
HGF/c-Met

Figure 2.7 Therapeutic targeting of the hallmarks of cancer. Drugs that interfere with each of the hallmark capabilities and hallmark-enabling processes
have been developed and are in preclinical and/or clinical testing, and in some cases, approved for use in treating certain forms of human cancer. A focus
on antagonizing specific hallmark capabilities is likely to yield insights into developing novel, highly effective therapeutic strategies. PARP, poly ADP
ribose polymerase. (Adapted from Hanahan D, Weinberg RA. Hallmarks of cancer: the next generation. Cell 2011;144:646–674.)

preexisting tissue vasculature. The initial clinical validation of this
adaptive/evasive resistance is apparent in the increased invasion
and local metastasis seen when human glioblastomas are treated
with antiangiogenic therapies.272–274 The applicability of this lesson
to other human cancers has yet to be established.
Analogous adaptive shifts in dependence on other hallmark
traits may also limit the efficacy of analogous hallmark-targeting
therapies. For example, the deployment of apoptosis-inducing
drugs may induce cancer cells to hyperactivate mitogenic signaling, enabling them to compensate for the initial attrition triggered
by such treatments. Such considerations suggest that drug development and the design of treatment protocols will benefit from
incorporating the concepts of functionally discrete hallmark capabilities and of the multiple biochemical pathways involved in supporting each of them. For these reasons, we envisage that attacking
multiple hallmark capabilities with hallmark-targeting drugs (see
Fig. 2.7), in carefully considered combinations, sequences, and
temporal regimens,275 will result in increasingly effective therapies
that produce more durable clinical responses.

CONCLUSION AND A VISION
FOR THE FUTURE
Looking ahead, we envision significant advances in our understanding of invasion and metastasis during the coming decade. Similarly,
the role of altered energy metabolism in malignant growth will be

elucidated, including a resolution of whether this metabolic reprogramming is a discrete capability separable from the core hallmark
of chronically sustained proliferation. We are excited about the
new frontier of immunotherapy, which will be empowered to leverage detailed knowledge about the regulation of immune responses
in order to develop pharmacologic tools that can modulate them
therapeutically for the purpose of effectively and sustainably attacking tumors and, most importantly, their metastases.
Other areas are currently in rapid flux. In recent years, elaborate molecular mechanisms controlling transcription through
chromatin modifications have been uncovered, and there are
clues that specific shifts in chromatin configuration occur during
the acquisition of certain hallmark capabilities.195,196 Functionally significant epigenetic alterations seem likely to be factors not
only in the cancer cells, but also in the altered cells of the tumorassociated stroma. At present, it is unclear whether an elucidation
of these epigenetic mechanisms will materially change our overall
understanding of the means by which hallmark capabilities are
acquired, or simply add additional detail to the regulatory circuitry
that is already known to govern them.
Similarly, the discovery of hundreds of distinct regulatory
microRNAs has already led to profound changes in our understanding of the molecular control mechanisms that operate in
health and disease. By now, dozens of microRNAs have been
implicated in various tumor phenotypes.276,277 Still, these only
scratch the surface of the true complexity, because the functions
of hundreds of microRNAs known to be present in our cells and to

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 2 Hallmarks of Cancer: An Organizing Principle for Cancer Medicine

S E L E C T E D
The full reference list can be accessed at lwwhealthlibrary.com/oncology.
1. Hanahan D, Weinberg R. The hallmarks of cancer. Cell 2000;100:57–70.
2. Hanahan D, Weinberg RA. Hallmarks of cancer: the next generation. Cell
2011;144:646–674.
3. Lemmon MA, Schlessinger J. Cell signaling by receptor tyrosine kinases.
Cell 2010;141:1117–1134.
7. Franco OE, Shaw AK, Strand DW, et al. Cancer associated fibroblasts in
cancer pathogenesis. Semin Cell Dev Biol 2010;21:33–39.
9. Davies MA, Samuels Y. Analysis of the genome to personalize therapy for
melanoma. Oncogene 2010;29:5545–5555.
11. Yuan TL, Cantley LC. PI3K pathway alterations in cancer: variations on a
theme. Oncogene 2008;27:5497–5510.
12. Wertz IE, Dixit VM. Regulation of death receptor signaling by the ubiquitin
system. Cell Death Differ 2010;17:14–24.
14. Amit I, Citri A, Shay T, et al. A module of negative feedback regulators
defines growth factor signaling. Nature Genet 2007;39:503–512.
16. Sudarsanam S, Johnson DE. Functional consequences of mTOR inhibition.
Curr Opin Drug Discov Devel 2010;13:31–40.
18. Dang CV. MYC on the path to cancer. Cell 2012;149:22–35.
20. Evan GI, d’Adda di Fagagna F. Cellular senescence: hot or what? Curr Opin
Genet Dev 2009;19:25–31.
22. Mooi WJ, Peeper DS. Oncogene-induced cell senescence—halting on the
road to cancer. N Engl J Med 2006;355:1037–1046.
23. Burkhart DL, Sage J. Cellular mechanisms of tumour suppression by the
retinoblastoma gene. Nat Rev Cancer 2008;8:671–682.
28. McClatchey AI, Yap AS. Contact inhibition (of proliferation) redux. Curr
Opin Cell Biol. 2012;24:685–694.
31. Stamenkovic I, Yu Q. Merlin, a “magic” linker between the extracellular
cues and intracellular signaling pathways that regulate cell motility, proliferation, and survival. Curr Protein Pept Sci 2010;11:471–484.
32. Pickup M, Novitskiv S, Moses HL. The roles of TGFβ in the tumour microenvironment. Nat Rev Cancer 2013;13:788–799.
34. Massagué J. TGF-beta in cancer. Cell 2008;134:215–230.
36. Strasser A, Cory S, Adams JM. Deciphering the rules of programmed cell
death to improve therapy of cancer and other diseases. EMBO J 2011;30:
3667–3683.
40. Junttila MR, Evan GI. p53—a jack of all trades but master of none. Nat Rev
Cancer 2009;9:821–829.
41. White E. Deconvoluting the context-dependent role for autophagy in cancer. Nat Rev Cancer 2012;12:401–410.
42. Levine B, Kroemer G. Autophagy in the pathogenesis of disease. Cell 2008;
132:27–42.
48. Amaravadi RK, Thompson CB. The roles of therapy-induced autophagy and
necrosis in cancer treatment. Clin Cancer Res 2007;13:7271–7279.
50. Vanden Berghe T, Linkermann A, Jouan-Lanhouet S, et al. Regulated
necrosis: the expanding network of non-apoptotic cell death pathways.
Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 2014;15:135–147.
51. Galluzzi L, Kroemer G. Necroptosis: a specialized pathway of programmed
necrosis. Cell 2008;135:1161–1163.
53. Grivennikov SI, Greten FR, Karin M. Immunity, inflammation, and cancer.
Cell 2010;140:883–899.
57. Shay JW, Wright WE. Telomeres and telomerase in cancer. Sem Cancer Biol
2011;21:349–353.
58. Artandi SE, DePinho RA. Telomeres and telomerase in cancer. Carcinogenesis 2010;31:9–18.
59. Cesare AJ, Reddel RR. Alternative lengthening of telomeres: models, mechanisms and implications. Nat Rev Genet 2010;11:319–330.
63. Sherr CJ, DePinho RA. Cellular senescence: mitotic clock or culture shock?
Cell 2000;102:407–410.
64. Feldser DM, Greider CW. Short telomeres limit tumor progression in vivo by
inducing senescence. Cancer Cell 2007;11:461–469.
68. Raynaud CM, Hernandez J, Llorca FP, et al. DNA damage repair and telomere length in normal breast, preneoplastic lesions, and invasive cancer. Am
J Clin Oncol 2010;33:341–345.
70. Hanahan D, Folkman J. Patterns and emerging mechanisms of the angiogenic switch during tumorigenesis. Cell 1996;86:353–364.

far greater detail and clarity, eclipsing our current knowledge. And,
as before,1,2 we continue to foresee cancer research as an increasingly logical science, in which myriad phenotypic complexities are
manifestations of an underlying organizing principle.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This chapter is modified from Hanahan D, Weinberg RA. Hallmarks of cancer: the next generation. Cell 2011;144(5):646–674.

R E F E R E N C E S
71. Baeriswyl V, Christofori G. The angiogenic switch in carcinogenesis. Semin
Cancer Biol 2009;19:329–337.
75. Carmeliet P. VEGF as a key mediator of angiogenesis in cancer. Oncology
2005;69:4–10.
76. Kessenbrock K, Plaks V, Werb Z. Matrix metalloproteinases: regulators of the
tumor microenvironment. Cell 2010;141:52–67.
78. Nagy JA, Chang SH, Shih SC, et al. Heterogeneity of the tumor vasculature.
Semin Thromb Hemost 2010;36:321–331.
81. Olive KP, Jacobetz MA, Davidson CJ, et al. Inhibition of Hedgehog signaling
enhances delivery of chemotherapy in a mouse model of pancreatic cancer.
Science 2009;324:1457–1461.
84. Xie L, Duncan MB, Pahler J, et al. Counterbalancing angiogenic regulatory
factors control the rate of cancer progression and survival in a stage-specific
manner. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2011;108:9939–9944.
91. Raza A, Franklin MJ, Dudek AZ. Pericytes and vessel maturation during
tumor angiogenesis and metastasis. Am J Hematol 2010;85:593–598.
94. Qian BZ, Pollard JW. Macrophage diversity enhances tumor progression and
metastasis. Cell 2010;141:39–51.
98. Ferrara N. Pathways mediating VEGF-independent tumor angiogenesis.
Cytokine Growth Factor Rev 2010;21:21–26.
101. Talmadge JE, Fidler IJ. AACR centennial series: the biology of cancer metastasis: historical perspective. Cancer Res 2010;70:5649–5669.
103. Berx G, van Roy F. Involvement of members of the cadherin superfamily in
cancer. Cold Spring Harb Perspect Biol 2009;1:a003129.
105. De Craene B, Berx G. Regulatory networks defining EMT during cancer
initiation and progression. Nat Rev Cancer 2013;13:97–110.
107. Polyak K, Weinberg RA. Transitions between epithelial and mesenchymal states: acquisition of malignant and stem cell traits. Nat Rev Cancer
2009;9:265–273.
108. Thiery JP, Acloque H, Huang RY, et al. Epithelial-mesenchymal transitions
in development and disease. Cell 2009;139:871–890.
113. Schmalhofer O, Brabletz S, Brabletz T. E-cadherin, beta-catenin, and
ZEB1 in malignant progression of cancer. Cancer Metastasis Rev 2009;28:
151–166.
114. Yang J, Weinberg RA. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition: at the crossroads of
development and tumor metastasis. Develop Cell 2008;14:818–829.
116. Karnoub AE, Weinberg RA. Chemokine networks and breast cancer metastasis. Breast Dis 2006;26:75–85.
119. Egeblad M, Nakasone ES, Werb Z. Tumors as organs: complex tissues that
interface with the entire organism. Dev Cell 2010;18:884–901.
120. Joyce JA, Pollard JW. Microenvironmental regulation of metastasis. Nat Rev
Cancer 2009;9:239–252.
124. Palermo C, Joyce JA. Cysteine cathepsin proteases as pharmacological targets in cancer. Trends Pharmacol Sci 2008;29:22–28.
125. Mohamed MM, Sloane BF. Cysteine cathepsins: multifunctional enzymes
in cancer. Nat Rev Cancer 2006;6:764–775.
128. Hugo H, Ackland ML, Blick T, et al. Epithelial-mesenchymal and
mesenchymal-epithelial transitions in carcinoma progression. J Cell Physiol
2007;213:374–383.
129. Friedl P, Wolf K. Plasticity of cell migration: a multiscale tuning model. J Cell
Biol 2009;188:11–19.
131. Madsen CD, Sahai E. Cancer dissemination—lessons from leukocytes. Dev
Cell 2010;19:13–26.
133. Quail DF, Joyce JA. Microenvironmental regulation of tumor progression
and metastasis. Nat Med 2013;19:1423–1437.
135. Aguirre-Ghiso JA. Models, mechanisms and clinical evidence for cancer
dormancy. Nat Rev Cancer 2007;7:834–846.
137. Demicheli R, Retsky MW, Hrushesky WJ, et al. The effects of surgery on
tumor growth: a century of investigations. Ann Oncol 2008;19:1821–1828.
141. Kenific CM, Thorburn A, Debnath J. Autophagy and metastasis: another
double-edged sword. Curr Opin Cell Biol 2010;22:241–245.
142. Teng MW, Swann JB, Koebel CM, et al. Immune-mediated dormancy: an
equilibrium with cancer. J Leukoc Biol 2008;84:988–993.
144. Luebeck EG. Cancer: genomic evolution of metastasis. Nature
2010;467:1053–1055.
147. Klein CA. Parallel progression of primary tumours and metastases. Nat Rev
Cancer 2009;9:302–312.

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

be altered in expression levels in different forms of cancer remain
total mysteries. Here again, we are unclear whether future progress
will cause fundamental shifts in our understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms of cancer, or only add detail to the elaborate
regulatory circuits that have already been mapped out.
Finally, the existing diagrams of heterotypic interactions between
the multiple distinct cell types that collaborate to produce malignant tumors are still rudimentary. We anticipate that, in another
decade, the signaling pathways describing the intercommunication
between these various cell types within tumors will be charted in

43

44

Principles of Oncology

148. Gerhardt H, Semb H. Pericytes: gatekeepers in tumour cell metastasis? J Mol
Med 2008;86:135–144.
149. Kim MY, Oskarsson T, Acharyya S, et al. Tumor self-seeding by circulating
cancer cells. Cell 2009;139:1315–1326.
152. Nguyen DX, Bos PD, Massagué J. Metastasis: from dissemination to organspecific colonization. Nat Rev Cancer 2009;9:274–284.
158. Hsu PP, Sabatini DM. Cancer cell metabolism: Warburg and beyond. Cell
2008;134:703–707.
159. Ward PS, Thompson CB. Metabolic reprogramming: a cancer hallmark
even warburg did not anticipate. Cancer Cell 2012;21:297–308.
160. Semenza GL. HIF-1: upstream and downstream of cancer metabolism. Curr
Opin Genet Dev 2010;20:51–56.
162. Kroemer G, Pouyssegur J. Tumor cell metabolism: cancer’s Achilles’ heel.
Cancer Cell 2008;13:472–482.
164. Vander Heiden MG, Cantley LC, Thompson CB. Understanding the
Warburg effect: the metabolic requirements of cell proliferation. Science
2009;324:1029–1033.
165. Semenza GL. Tumor metabolism: cancer cells give and take lactate. J Clin
Invest 2008;118:3835–3837.
166. Nakajima EC, Van Houten B. Metabolic symbiosis in cancer: refocusing the
Warburg lens. Mol Carcinog 2013;52:329–337.
168. Feron O. Pyruvate into lactate and back: from the Warburg effect to symbiotic energy fuel exchange in cancer cells. Radiother Oncol 2009;92:329–333.
173. Vajdic CM, van Leeuwen MT. Cancer incidence and risk factors after solid
organ transplantation. Int J Cancer 2009;125:1747–1754.
174. Elinav E, Nowarski R, Thaiss CA, et al. Inflammation-induced cancer: crosstalk between tumours, immune cells and microorganisms. Nat Rev Cancer
2013;13:759–771.
177. Galon J, Angell HK, Bedognetti D, et al. The continuum of cancer immunosurveillance: prognostic, predictive, and mechanistic signatures. Immunity
2013;39:11–26.
178. Kim R, Emi M, Tanabe K. Cancer immunoediting from immune surveillance to immune escape. Immunology 2007;121:1–14.
180. Bindea G, Mlecnik B, Fridman WH, et al. Natural immunity to cancer in
humans. Curr Opin Immunol 2010;22:215–222.
183. Pagès F, Galon J, Dieu-Nosjean MC, et al. Immune infiltration in human tumors: a prognostic factor that should not be ignored. Oncogene
2010;29:1093–1102.
185. Yang L, Pang Y, Moses HL. TGF-beta and immune cells: an important regulatory axis in the tumor microenvironment and progression. Trends Immunol
2010;31:220 –227.
186. Shields JD, Kourtis IC, Tomei AA, et al. Induction of lymphoidlike stroma
and immune escape by tumors that express the chemokine CCL21. Science
2010;328:749–752.
189. Pardoll DM. The blockade of immune checkpoints in cancer immunotherapy.
Nat Rev Cancer 2012;12:252–264.
190. Motz GT, Coukos G. Deciphering and reversing tumor immune suppression. Immunity 2013;39:61–73.
191. Gabrilovich DI, Nagaraj S. Myeloid-derived suppressor cells as regulators of
the immune system. Nat Rev Immunol 2009;9:162–174.
192. Mougiakakos D, Choudhury A, Lladser A, et al. Regulatory T cells in cancer.
Adv Cancer Res 2010;107:57–117.
195. You JS, Jones PA. Cancer genetics and epigenetics: two sides of the same
coin? Cancer Cell 2012;22:9–20.
196. Berdasco M, Esteller M. Aberrant epigenetic landscape in cancer: how cellular identity goes awry. Dev Cell 2010;19:698–711.
199. Negrini S, Gorgoulis VG, Halazoneitis TD. Genomic instability—an evolving hallmark of cancer. Nat Rev Mol Cell Bio 2010;11:220–228.
201. Jackson SP, Bartek J. The DNA-damage response in human biology and disease. Nature 2009;461:1071–1078.
204. Lane DP. Cancer. p53, guardian of the genome. Nature 1992;358:15–16.
205. Kinzler KW, Vogelstein B. Cancer-susceptibility genes. Gatekeepers and
caretakers. Nature 1997;386:761–763.
206. Ciccia A, Elledge SJ. The DNA damage response: making it safe to play with
knives. Mol Cell 2010;40:179–204.
209. Barnes DE, Lindahl T. Repair and genetic consequences of endogenous
DNA base damage in mammalian cells. Annu Rev Genet 2004;38:445–476.
210. Korkola J, Gray JW. Breast cancer genomes—form and function. Curr Opin
Genet Dev 2010;20:4–14.
211. Dvorak HF. Tumors: wounds that do not heal. Similarities between tumor
stroma generation and wound healing. N Engl J Med 1986;315:1650–1659.
213. Hanahan D, Coussens LM. Accessories to the crime: functions of cells recruited to the tumor microenvironment. Cancer Cell 2012;21:309–322.
214. de Visser KE, Eichten A, Coussens LM. Paradoxical roles of the immune
system during cancer development. Nat Rev Cancer 2006;6:24–37.
215. Servais C, Erez N. From sentinel cells to inflammatory culprits: cancer-associated fibroblasts in tumour-related inflammation. J Pathol 2013;229:198–207.
217. Pietras K, Ostman A. Hallmarks of cancer: interactions with the tumor
stroma. Exp Cell Res 2010;316:1324–1331.
220. Welti J, Loges S, Dimmeler S, et al. Recent molecular discoveries in
angiogenesis and antiangiogenic therapies in cancer. J Clin Invest 2013;
123:3190–3200.
221. Pasquale EB. Eph receptors and ephrins in cancer: bidirectional signalling
and beyond. Nat Rev Cancer 2010;10:165–180.

224. Carmeliet P, Jain RK. Angiogenesis in cancer and other diseases. Nature
2000;407:249–257.
225. Ruoslahti E, Bhatia SN, Sailor MJ. Targeting of drugs and nanoparticles to
tumors. J Cell Biol 2010;188:759–768.
227. Motz GT, Coukos G. The parallel lives of angiogenesis and immunosuppression: cancer and other tales. Nat Rev Immunol 2011;11:702–711.
228. Carmeliet P, Jain RK. Principles and mechanisms of vessel normalization for
cancer and other angiogenic diseases. Nat Rev Drug Discov 2011;10:417–427.
229. Tammela T, Alitalo K. Lymphangiogenesis: Molecular mechanisms and
future promise. Cell 2010;140:460–476.
230. Card CM, Yu SS, Swartz MA. Emerging roles of lymphatic endothelium in
regulating adaptive immunity. J Clin Invest 2014;124:943–952.
231. Gaengel K, Genové G, Armulik A, et al. Endothelial-mural cell signaling
in vascular development and angiogenesis. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol
2009;29:630–638.
232. Schäfer M, Werner S. Cancer as an overhealing wound: an old hypothesis
revisited. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 2008;9:628–638.
233. Karin M, Lawrence T, Nizet V. Innate immunity gone awry: linking microbial infections to chronic inflammation and cancer. Cell 2006;124:823–835.
234. Coffeldt SB, Lewis CE, Naldini L, et al. Elusive identities and overlapping phenotypes of proangiogenic myeloid cells in tumors. Am J Pathol 2010;176:1564–1576.
237. Mantovani A, Allavena P, Sica A, et al. Cancer-related inflammation. Nature
2008;454:436–444
238. DeNardo DG, Brennan DJ, Rexhepaj E, et al. Leukocyte complexity predicts
breast cancer survival and functionally regulates response to chemotherapy.
Cancer Discov 2011;1:54–67.
239. De Palma M, Coukos G, Hanahan D. A new twist on radiation oncology:
low-dose irradiation elicits immunostimulatory macrophages that unlock barriers to tumor immunotherapy. Cancer Cell 2013;24:559–561.
240. Koh BI, Kang Y. The pro-metastatic role of bone marrow-derived cells: a
focus on MSCs and regulatory T cells. EMBO Rep 2012;13:412–422.
243. Giaccia AJ, Schipani E. Role of carcinoma-associated fibroblasts and hypoxia
in tumor progression. Curr Top Microbiol Immunol 2010;345:31–45.
244. Labelle M, Hynes RO. The initial hours of metastasis: the importance of cooperative host-tumor cell interactions during hematogenous dissemination.
Cancer Discov 2012;2:1091–1099.
245. Peinado H, Lavothskin S, Lyden D. The secreted factors responsible for premetastatic niche formation: old sayings and new thoughts. Semin Cancer
Biol 2011;21:139–146.
246. Reya T, Morrison SJ, Clarke MF, et al. Stem cells, cancer, and cancer stem
cells. Nature 2001;414:105–111.
248. Gilbertson RJ, Rich JN. Making a tumour’s bed: glioblastoma stem cells and
the vascular niche. Nat Rev Cancer 2007;7:733–736.
250. Beck B, Blanpain C. Unravelling cancer stem cell potential. Nat Rev Cancer
2013;13:727–738.
251. Magee JA, Piskounova E, Morrison SJ. Cancer stem cells: impact, heterogeneity, and uncertainty. Cancer Cell 2012;21:283–296.
254. Meacham CE, Morrison SJ. Tumour heterogeneity and cancer cell plasticity.
Nature 2013;501:328–337.
255. Singh A, Settleman J. EMT, cancer stem cells and drug resistance: an emerging axis of evil in the war on cancer. Oncogene 2010;29:4741–4751.
256. Brabletz T, Jung A, Spaderna S, et al. Opinion: migrating cancer stem cells – an
integrated concept of malignant tumor progression. Nat Rev Cancer 2005;5:
744–749.
258. Gupta P, Chaffer CL, Weinberg RA. Cancer stem cells: mirage or reality?
Nature Med 2009;15:1010–1012.
260. Chaffer CL, Brueckmann I, Scheel C, et al. Normal and neoplastic nonstem
cells can spontaneously convert to stem-like state. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
2011;108:7950–7955.
261. Thiery JP, Sleeman JR. Complex networks orchestrate epithelial-mesenchymal
transitions. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 2006;7:131–142.
262. Creighton CJ, Li X, Landis M, et al. Residual breast cancers after conventional therapy display mesenchymal as well as tumor-initiating features.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2009;106:13820–13825.
264. Rhim AD, Mirek ET, Aiello NM, et al. EMT and dissemination precede
pancreatic tumor formation. Cell 2012;148:349–361.
265. Soda Y, Marumoto T, Friedmann-Morvinski D, et al. Transdifferentiation of
glioblastoma cells into vascular endothelial cells. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
2011;108:4274–4280.
267. Wang R, Chadalavada K, Wilshire J, et al. Glioblastoma stem-like cells give
rise to tumour endothelium. Nature 2010;468:829–833.
268. Folkman J, Kalluri R. Cancer without disease. Nature 2004;427:787.
270. Ebos JM, Lee CR, Kerbel RS. Tumor and host-mediated pathways of resistance and disease progression in response to antiangiogenic therapy. Clin
Cancer Res 2009;15:5020–5025.
271. Bergers G, Hanahan D. Modes of resistance to anti-angiogenic therapy. Nat
Rev Cancer 2008;8:592–603.
273. Norden AD, Drappatz J, Wen PY. Antiangiogenic therapies for high-grade
glioma. Nat Rev Neurol 2009;5:610–620.
275. Hanahan D. Rethinking the war on cancer. Lancet 2014;383:558–563.
276. Pencheva N, Tavazoie SF. Control of metastatic progression by microRNA
regulatory networks. Nat Cell Biol 2013;15:546–554.
277. Garzon R, Marcucci G, Croce CM. Targeting microRNAs in cancer:
rationale, strategies and challenges. Nat Rev Drug Discov 2010;9:775–789.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

3

Molecular Methods in Cancer

APPLICATIONS OF MOLECULAR
DIAGNOSTICS IN ONCOLOGY
Molecular diagnostics is increasingly impacting a number of areas of
cancer care delivery including diagnosis, prognosis, in predicting response to particular therapies, and in minimal residual disease monitoring. Each of these depends on detection or measurement of one or
more disease-specific molecular biomarkers representing abnormalities in genetic or epigenetic pathways controlling cellular proliferation, differentiation, or cell death (Table 3.1). In addition, molecular
diagnostics is beginning to play a role in predicting host metabolism
of drugs—for example, in predicting fast versus slow thiopurine metabolizers using polymorphisms in the thiopurine methyltransferase
(TPMT) allele and in use in dosing patients with thiopurine drugs.1
Molecular diagnostics has also had a major impact on assessing an
engraftment after bone marrow transplantation and in tissue typing
for bone marrow and solid organ transplantation.
The ideal cancer biomarker is only associated with the disease
and not the normal state. The utility of the biomarker largely
depends on what the clinical effect the biomarker predicts for, how
large the effect is, and how strong the evidence is for the effect.
For clinical application, biomarkers need a high level of analytic
validity, clinical validity, and clinical utility. Analytic validity refers to the ability of the overall testing process to accurately detect
and, in many cases, measure the biomarker. Clinical validity is the
ability of a biomarker to predict a particular disease behavior or
response to therapy. Clinical utility, arguably the most difficult to
assess, addresses whether the information available from the biomarker is actually beneficial for patient care.
Biomarkers can take many forms including chromosomal
translocations and other chromosomal rearrangements, gene amplification, copy number variation, point mutations, single nucleotide polymorphisms, changes in gene expression (including micro
RNAs), and epigenetic alterations. Most biomarkers in widespread
use represent either gain of function or loss of function alterations
in key signaling pathways. Those that occur early and at a high
frequency in tumors tend to be driver mutations, whose function is
important for the cancer cell’s proliferation and/or survival. These
are particularly useful as biomarkers because they often represent
important therapeutic targets. However, cancer cells accumulate
many genetic alterations, called passenger mutations, which tend
to occur at a lower frequency overall and in a subset of a heterogeneous population of tumor cells that may contribute to the cancer
phenotype but are not absolutely essential.2 Distinguishing passenger from driver mutations using various functional assays has become a major focus of translational research in cancer. The same
biomarker may have utility in a variety of settings. For example,
the detection of the BCR-ABL1 translocation, pathognomonic for
chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), is used for establishing
the diagnosis, for the selection of therapy, and for monitoring for
minimal residual disease during and after therapy.
Some of the most heavily used genetic biomarkers in cancer, particularly in hematologic malignancies, are chromosomal

translocations. For certain diseases such as CML, detection of the
BCR-ABL1 translocation or in Burkitt lymphoma the immunoglobulin gene-MYC translocation is required, according to current
World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines, to make the diagnosis. Identification of translocations is important in the diagnosis and
subtyping of acute leukemias (e.g., detection of PML-RARA and
variant translocations in acute promyelocytic leukemia) and is also
extremely important for the diagnosis of sarcomas such as Ewing
sarcoma. The discovery of chromosomal translocations, such as the
TMPRSS-ETS in prostate cancer and ALK translocations in non–
small-cell lung cancer, portends an importance of detecting translocations in solid tumors.3 Chromosomal translocations, especially
for hematologic malignancies, have been traditionally detected by
classical karyotyping. This approach has limitations; in particular,
it requires viable, dividing cells, which are often not readily available from solid tumor biopsies. In addition, a significant proportion
of chromosomal translocations are not detectable by conventional
karyotyping. For example, 5% to 10% of CML cases lack detectable
t(9;22) by G banding. Such “cryptic” translocations require other
approaches for detection, which are to be discussed, including
fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), polymerase chain reaction
(PCR), as well as nucleic acid sequencing-based methods.
In certain settings, it can be helpful to detect if a population of
cells is clonal. For example, in some lymphoid infiltrates, the cells
are well differentiated and it can be difficult to determine whether
these represent a reactive or neoplastic infiltrate. If dispersed, cells
are available and these could be analyzed by flow cytometer to
detect whether a monotypic population expressing either immunoglobulin kappa or lambda light chains is present. In theory,
immunohistochemical staining (IHC) for immunoglobulin light
chains could be used to assess clonality; however, in practice this
is done with more sensitivity using RNA in situ hybridization for
immunoglobulin kappa and lambda light chain transcripts. The
most sensitive way to detect clonality in a B-cell population is to
analyze the size of the break point cluster region that arises as a
result of VDJ recombination by PCR. Reactive B cells will show a
distribution in the size of the VDJ recombination for the IGH or
IGK or IGL, whereas clonal cells will show a predominant band
that represents the size of the VDJ region of the dominant clone.
Similarly, sometimes it can be difficult to distinguish neoplastic
from reactive T-cell infiltrates. Given the large number of T-cell
antigen receptors, it is not as simple to detect clonality by IHC
or flow cytometry in T-cell proliferations. One approach is to use
aberrant loss of T-cell antigen expression to aid in the diagnosis of
T-cell neoplasms. Another is to detect clonal rearrangement of the
VDJ region of the T-cell receptor gamma (TCR␥) gene, which
can be done by PCR on both fresh and formalin-fixed paraffinembedded (FFPE) tissue.
Gene amplification is another important mechanism in cancer
that has been found to have high utility in a subset of cancers.
MYCN amplification occurs in approximately 40% of undifferentiated or poorly differentiated neuroblastoma subtypes,4,5 either
appearing as double minute chromosomes or homogeneously

45

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

Larissa V. Furtado, Jay L. Hess, and Bryan L. Betz

46

Principles of Oncology

TA B L E 3 . 1
Genomic Alterations as Putative Predictive Biomarkers for Cancer Therapy
Genes

Pathways

Aberration Type

Disease Examples

Putative or Proven Drugs

PIK3CA,51,52 PIK3R1,53
PIK3R2, AKT1, AKT2, and
AKT3 54,55

Phosphoinositide
3-kinase (PI3K)

Mutation or
amplification

Breast, colorectal, and
endometrial cancer

■ PI3K inhibitors
■ AKT inhibitors

PI3K

Deletion

Numerous cancers

■ PI3K inhibitors

mTOR

Mutation

Tuberous sclerosis and
bladder cancer

■ mTOR inhibitors

RAS family (HRAS, NRAS,
KRAS), BRAF,60 and MEK1

RAS–MEK

Mutation,
rearrangement, or
amplification

Numerous cancers, including
melanoma and prostate
cancers

■ RAF inhibitors
■ MEK inhibitors
■ PI3K inhibitors

Fibroblast growth factor
receptor 1 (FGFR1), FGFR2,
FGFR3, FGFR4 36

FGFR

Mutation,
amplification, or
rearrangement

Myeloma, sarcoma, and
bladder, breast, ovarian, lung,
endometrial, and myeloid
cancers

■ FGFR inhibitors
■ FGFR antibodies

Epidermal growth factor
receptor (EGFR)

EGFR

Mutation, deletion, or
amplification

Lung and gastrointestinal
cancer

■ EGFR inhibitors
■ EGFR antibodies

ERBB2 61

ERBB2

Amplification or
mutation

Breast, bladder, gastric, and
lung cancers

■ ERBB2 inhibitors
■ ERBB2 antibodies

SMO 62,63 and PTCH1 64

Hedgehog

Mutation

Basal cell carcinoma

■ Hedgehog inhibitor

MET65

MET

Amplification or
mutation

Bladder, gastric, and
renal cancers

■ MET inhibitors
■ MET antibodies

JAK1, JAK2, JAK3,66 STAT1,
STAT3

JAK–STAT

Mutation or
rearrangement

Leukemia and lymphoma

■ JAK–STAT inhibitors
■ STAT decoys

Discoidin domain-containing
receptor 2 (DDR2)

RTK

Mutation

Lung cancer

■ Some tyrosine kinase

Erythropoietin receptor
(EPOR)

JAK–STAT

Rearrangement

Leukemia

■ JAK–STAT inhibitors

Interleukin-7 receptor (IL-7R)

JAK–STAT

Mutation

Leukemia

■ JAK–STAT inhibitors

Cyclin-dependent kinases
(CDKs 67; CDK4, CDK6,
CDK8), CDKN2A, and cyclin
D1 (CCND1)

CDK

Amplification,
mutation, deletion, or
rearrangement

Sarcoma, colorectal cancer,
melanoma, and lymphoma

■ CDK inhibitors

ABL1

ABL

Rearrangement

Leukemia

■ ABL inhibitors

RARα

Rearrangement

Leukemia

■ All-trans retinoic acid

Aurora kinases

Amplification

Prostate and breast cancers

■ Aurora kinase inhibitors

Androgen

Mutation,
amplification, or
splice variant

Prostate cancer

■ Androgen synthesis

PTEN 56
57

MTOR,

58

TSC1,

59

and TSC2

Retinoic acid receptor-α
(RARA)
Aurora kinase A (AURKA)68
69

Androgen receptor (AR)

inhibitors

inhibitors
■ Androgen receptor

inhibitors
FLT3

70

FLT3

Mutation or deletion

Leukemia

■ FLT3 inhibitors

MET

MET–HGF

Mutation or
amplification

Lung and gastric cancers

■ MET inhibitors

Myeloproliferative leukemia
(MPL)

THPO,
JAK–STAT

Mutation

Myeloproliferative neoplasms

■ JAK–STAT inhibitors

MDM2 71

MDM2

Amplification

Sarcoma and adrenal
carcinomas

■ MDM2 antagonist

KIT 72

KIT

Mutation

GIST, mastocytosis, and
leukemia

■ KIT inhibitors

PDGFRA and PDGFRB

PDGFR

Deletion,
rearrangement, or
amplification

Hematologic cancer, GIST,
sarcoma, and brain cancer

■ PDGFR inhibitors

Anaplastic lymphoma kinase
(ALK)9,37,73,74

ALK

Rearrangement or
mutation

Lung cancer and
neuroblastoma

■ ALK inhibitors

(continued)
tahir99 - UnitedVRG

47

Chapter 3 Molecular Methods in Cancer

TA B L E 3 . 1
Genomic Alterations as Putative Predictive Biomarkers for Cancer Therapy (continued)
Genes

Pathways

Aberration Type

Disease Examples

Putative or Proven Drugs

RET

RET

Rearrangement or
mutation

Lung and thyroid cancers

■ RET inhibitors

ROS175

ROS1

Rearrangement

Lung cancer and
cholangiocarcinoma

■ ROS1 inhibitors

NOTCH1 and NOTCH2

Notch

Rearrangement or
mutation

Leukemia and breast cancer

■ Notch signalling pathway

inhibitors

staining regions. MYCN amplification is a very strong predictor
of poor outcomes, particularly in patients with localized (stage 1
or stage 2) disease or in infants with stage 4S metastatic disease,
where fewer than half of patients survive beyond 5 years.6
Use of other chromosome abnormalities has been largely limited to the diagnosis and prognostication of hematologic disorders.
Roughly half of all myelodysplastic disorders show cytogenetically
detectable chromosomal abnormalities, such as monosomy 5 or
7, partial chromosomal loss (5q-, 7q-), or complex chromosomal
abnormalities. Certain abnormalities in isolation (e.g., 5q-) have a
favorable prognosis, whereas many others (e.g., “complex” karyotypes with three or more abnormalities) carry a worse prognosis.
Differences in ploidy have proven to be useful predictors in pediatric acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), with hyperdiploid cases
(>50 chromosomes) showing a distinctly more favorable course
compared with hypodiploid or near diploid cases.7 Overall, DNA
ploidy can be assessed by flow cytometry. Specific chromosomal

5⬘

Exons

copy number alterations can be detected by conventional karyotyping, array hybridization methods, or FISH.
Copy number variation (CNV) represents the most common type
of structural chromosomal alteration. Regions affected by CNVs
range from approximately 1 kilobase to several megabases that are
either amplified or deleted. It is estimated that about 0.4% of the genomes of healthy individuals differ in copy number.8 CNVs resulting
in deletion of genes such as BRCA1, BRCA2, APC, mismatch repair
genes, and TP53 have been implicated in a wide range of highly
penetrant cancers.9,10 CNVs can be detected by a variety of means
including FISH, comparative or array genomic hybridization, or virtual karyotyping using single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) arrays.
Increasingly, CNV is detected using next-generation sequencing.
Large-scale sequencing of tumors has identified many mutations that are of potential prognostic and therapeutic significance.
As will be discussed further, a wide range of strategies is available
for the detection of point mutations (Fig. 3.1). It is important to
RNA

5⬘

A

AA

AA

A
AA

A
AA

A
5⬘
Exon baits

5⬘
Exon baits

Whole genome

Whole exome (1%)

PCR amplicon

Transcriptome RNA

Exon capture transcriptome

Predominant applications:
Structural variants
Point mutations
Copy number variation

Predominant applications:
Point mutations
Copy number variation

Predominant applications:
Point mutations
Deletions

Predominant applications:
Gene expression
Gene fusions
Splice variants

Predominant applications:
Gene expression
Gene fusions
Splice variants

Figure 3.1 Strategies for the detection of mutations, translocations, and other structural genomic abnormalities in cancer. Whole genome sequencing,
which involves determining the entire sequence of both introns and exons, is not only the most comprehensive, but also the most laborious and
expensive approach. Exome sequencing uses baits to capture either the entire exome (roughly 20,000 genes [about 1% of the genome]) or else a
subset of genes of interest. Amplicon-based sequencing uses PCR or other amplification techniques to amplify targets of interest for sequencing.
Transcriptome sequencing, also known as RNAseq, is based on sequencing expressed RNA and can be used to detect not only mutations, but also
translocations, other structural abnormalities, as well as differences in expression levels. This can be combined with exome capture techniques for a
higher sensitivity analysis of genes of particular interest. (Reprinted by permission from Macmillan Publishers Limited: Nature Reviews Drug Discovery,
Simon, R. and Rowchodhury, S. 12:358–369, 2013, ©2013.)

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

PIK3CA, PI3K catalytic subunit-α; PIK3R1, PI3K regulatory subunit 1; PI3K, phosphoinositide 3-kinase; AKT, v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog;
PTEN, phosphatase and tensin homolog; mTOR, mechanistic target of rapamycin; TSC1, tuberous sclerosis 1 protein; RAS–MEK, rat sarcoma; MEK, MAPK/
ERK (mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase) kinase; RAF, v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog; ERBB2, also known as
HER2; SMO, smoothened homolog; PTCH1, patched homolog; MET, hepatocyte growth factor receptor; JAK, Janus kinase; THPO, thrombopoietin; STAT, signal
transducer and activator of transcription; RTK, receptor tyrosine kinase; CDKN2A, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A; ABL, Abelson murine leukemia viral
oncogene homolog 1; FLT3, FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3; HGF, hepatocyte growth factor; MDM2, mouse double minute 2; KIT, v-kit Hardy-Zuckerman 4 feline
sarcoma viral oncogene homolog; GIST, gastrointestinal stromal tumor; PDGFR, platelet-derived growth factor receptor; ROS1, v-ros avian UR2 sarcoma virus
oncogene homolog.
Reprinted by permission from Macmillan Publishers Limited: Nature Reviews Drug Discovery, Simon, R. and Rowchodhury, S. 12:358–369, 2013, ©2013.

48

Principles of Oncology

recognize that many nucleotide variations occur at any given allele
in populations. Formally, the term polymorphism is used to describe
genetic differences present in ≥1% of the human population,
whereas mutation describes less frequent differences. However, in
practice, polymorphism is often used to describe a nonpathogenic
genetic change, and mutation a deleterious change, regardless of
their frequencies.
Mutations can be classified according to their effect in the
structure of a gene. The most common of these disease-associated
alterations are single nucleotide substitutions (point mutations);
however, many deletions, insertions, gene rearrangements, gene
amplification, and copy number variations have been identified
that have clinical significance. Point mutations may affect promoters, splicing sites, or coding regions. Coding region mutations
can be classified into three kinds, depending on the impact on
the codon: missense mutation, a nucleotide change leads to the
substitution of an amino acid to another; nonsense mutation, a
nucleotide substitution causes premature termination of codons
with protein truncation; and silent mutation, a nucleotide change
does not change the coded amino acid.
Loss of function mutations, either through point mutations or
deletions in tumor suppression genes such as APC and TP53, are
the most common mutations in cancers. Tumor suppression genes
require two-hit (biallelic) mutations that inactivate both copies of
the gene in order to allow tumorigenesis to occur. The first hit is
usually an inherited or somatic point mutation, and the second hit
is assumed to be an acquired deletion mutation that deletes the
second copy of the tumor suppression gene. Promoter methylation
of tumor suppressor genes is an alternative route to tumorigenesis
that, to date, has not been commonly employed for molecular
diagnostics.
Oncogenes originate from the deregulation of genes that
normally encode for proteins associated with cell growth, differentiation, apoptosis, and signal transduction (proto-oncogenes,
[e.g., BRAF and KRAS]). Proto-oncogenes generally require
only one gain of function or activating mutation to become oncogenic. Common mutation types that result in proto-oncogene
activation include point mutations, gene amplifications, and
chromosomal translocations. One example is mutations in the
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) that occur in lung
cancer, which are almost exclusively seen in nonmucinous bronchoalveolar carcinomas. Somatic mutations of EGFR constitutively activate the receptor tyrosine kinase (TK). Importantly,
responsiveness of tumors harboring these mutations to the inhibitor gefitinib is highly coordinated with a mutation of the
EGFR TK domain.11,12
One of the challenges with using mutations as biomarkers is
that there can be many nucleotide alterations that affect a given
gene. For example, there are over 100 known different point mutations in EGFR reported in non–small-cell lung cancer. Many
of these mutations occur at low frequency and have an unknown
clinical significance.13,14 Another important concept is that the
same driver oncogene may be mutated in a variety of different
tumors. For example, lung cancers harbor a number of other different alterations that are common in other solid tumors, which
generally occur at lower frequencies than EGFR mutations such
as KRAS, BRAF, and HER2. Some lung cancers have translocations involving the ALK kinase gene. ALK, interestingly, is also
activated by point mutations in a neuroblastoma as by translocation in anaplastic large cell lymphoma (Fig. 3.2). Hence, a therapy
targeted to a genetic alteration in one cancer may demonstrate
efficacy in other cancers.
The detection of mutations is also important in the evaluation
of chemotherapy resistance. Roughly a third of CML patients are
resistant to the frontline ABL1 kinase inhibitor imatinib, either
at the time of initial treatment or, more commonly, secondarily.
In cases of primary failure or secondary failure, over 100 different ABL1 mutations have been identified, including particularly
common ones such as T315I and P loop mutations. While some

Neuroblastoma
Patient cohort
appropriate for
ALK-targeted
therapy

Non–small-cell
lung cancer

Anaplastic
large-cell
lymphoma

Genomically
activated ALK

Figure 3.2 Activating genomic alterations occur in a variety of tumor
types. ALK translocations, mutations, and amplifications occur in non–
small-cell lung cancer, neuroblastomas, and in anaplastic large cell
lymphomas. Such recurrent alterations in cancer, together with effective
inhibitors of these pathways, are transforming oncologic therapies from
organ-specific to pathway-specific interventions and are driving the use
of molecular diagnostics in a wider range of tumor types (Reprinted
with permission. © 2009 American Society of Clinical Oncology. All
rights reserved. From McDermott, U. and Settleman, J. J Clin Oncol
2009;27:5650–5659.)

mutations, such as Y253H, respond to second generation TK inhibitors (TKI), others, such as the T315I mutation, are noteworthy
because they confer resistance not only to imatinib, but also to
nilotinib and dasatinib.
Mutations are also used as important predictive biomarkers
(Table 3.1). Two of the most notable examples are the use of
the BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation analysis for women with a
strong family history of breast cancer. Over 200 mutations (loss
of function point mutations, small deletions, or insertions)
occur in BRCA genes, which are distributed across the genes
necessitating full sequencing for their detection. The overall
prevalence of these occur in about 0.1% of the general population.15,16 The lifetime risk of breast cancer for women carrying
BRCA1 mutations is in the range of 47% to 66%, whereas for
BRCA2 mutations, it is in the range of 40% to 57%.17,18 In addition, the risk of other tumors including ovarian, fallopian, and
pancreatic cancer is also increased. Detection of BRCA1 and
BRCA2 mutations is, therefore, important for cancer prevention
and risk reduction.

THE CLINICAL MOLECULAR DIAGNOSTICS
LABORATORY: RULES AND REGULATIONS
Laboratories in the United States that perform molecular diagnostic testing are categorized as high-complexity laboratories
under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of
1988 (CLIA).19 The CLIA program sets the minimum administrative and technical standards that must be met in order to
ensure quality laboratory testing. Most laboratories in the United
States that perform clinical testing in humans are regulated
under CLIA. CLIA-certified laboratories must be accredited by
professional organizations such as the Joint Commission, the
College of American Pathologists, or another agency officially
approved by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
(CMS), and must comply with CLIA standards and guidelines
for quality assurance. Although the regulation of laboratory
services is in the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA)
jurisdiction, the FDA has historically exercised enforcement
discretion. Therefore, FDA approval is not currently required
for clinical implementation of molecular tests as long as other
regulations are met.20,21

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 3 Molecular Methods in Cancer

Samples typically received for molecular oncology testing include
blood, bone marrow aspirates and biopsies, fluids, organ-specific
fresh tissues in saline or tissue culture media such as Roswell
Park Memorial Institute (RPMI), FFPE tissues, and cytology cell
blocks. Molecular tests can be ordered electronically or through
written requisition forms, but never through verbal requests only.
All samples submitted for molecular testing need to be appropriately identified. Sample type, quantity, and specimen handling
and transport requirements should conform to the laboratory’s
stated requirements in order to ensure valid test results.
Blood and bone marrow samples should be drawn into anticoagulated tubes. The preferred anticoagulant for most molecular
assays is ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA; lavender). Other
acceptable collection tubes include ACD (yellow) solutions A
and B. Heparinized tubes are not preferred for most molecular
tests because heparin inhibits the polymerase enzyme utilized
in PCR, which may lead to assay failure. Blood and bone marrow samples can be transported at ambient temperature. Blood
samples should never be frozen prior to separation of cellular elements because this causes hemolysis, which interferes with DNA
amplification. Fluids should be transported on ice. Tissues should
be frozen (preferred method) as soon as possible and sent on dry
ice to minimize degradation. Fresh tissues in RPMI should be sent
on ice or cold packs. Cells should be kept frozen and sent on dry
ice; DNA samples can be sent at ambient temperature or on ice.
For FFPE tissue blocks, typical collection and handling procedures include cutting 4 to 6 microtome sections of 10-micron
thickness each on uncoated slides, air-drying unstained sections at
room temperature, and staining one of the slides with hematoxylin
and eosin (H&E). A board-certified pathologist reviews the H&E
slides to ensure the tissue block contains a sufficient quantity of
neoplastic tumor cells, and circles an area on the H&E slide that
will be used as a template to guide macrodissection or microdissection of the adjacent, unstained slides. The pathologist also provides an estimate of the percentage of neoplastic cells in the area
that will be tested, which should exceed the established limit of
detection (LOD) of the assay.

MOLECULAR DIAGNOSTICS
TESTING PROCESS
The workflow of a molecular test begins with receipt and accessioning of the specimen in the clinical molecular diagnostics laboratory followed by extraction of the nucleic acid (DNA or RNA),
test setup, detection of analyte (e.g., PCR products), data analysis,
and result reporting to the patient medical record (Fig. 3.3).
An extraction of intact, moderately high-quality DNA is essential for molecular assays. For DNA extraction, the preferred age
for blood, bone marrow, and fluid samples is less than 5 days; for
frozen or fixed tissue, it is indefinite; and for fresh tissue, it is overnight. Although there is no age limit for the use of a fixed and
embedded tissue specimen for analysis, older specimens may yield
a lower quantity and quality of DNA. Because RNA is significantly
more labile than DNA, the preferred age for blood and bone marrow is less than 48 hours (from time of collection). Tissue samples
intended for an RNA analysis should be promptly processed in
fresh state, snap frozen, or preserved with RNA stabilizing agents
for transport.
Dedicated areas, equipment, and materials are designated for
various stages of DNA and RNA extraction procedures. DNA and
RNA isolation can be done by manual or automated methods.
Currently, most clinical laboratories employ commercial protocols based on liquid- or solid-phase extractions. Nucleated cells are
isolated from biological samples prior to nucleic acid extraction.

Specimen accession

Pathologist review for
specimen adequacy

Extraction of DNA or RNA

Assay setup

PCR amplification of target

Detection and data analysis

Report
Figure 3.3 Simplified workflow of clinical molecular diagnostic testing.

White blood cells (WBC) can be isolated from blood and bone
marrow samples by different methods. One method involves lysing
the red blood cells with an ammonium chloride solution, which
yields the total WBC population and other nucleated cells present. Another method involves a gradient preparation with a Ficoll
solution, which yields the mononuclear cell population only. Sections of FFPE tissue blocks are prepared for DNA extraction by
first removing the paraffin and disrupting the cell membranes with
proteinase K digestion. Fresh and frozen tissues also undergo proteinase K digestion prior to nucleic acid extraction. DNA isolation
protocols consist of several steps, including cell lysis, DNA purification by salting out the proteins and other debris (nonorganic
method), or by solvent extractions of the proteins with phenol and
chloroform solutions (organic method). The DNA is then precipitated out of the solution with isopropanol or ethanol. The pellet is
washed with 70% to 80% ethanol and then solubilized in buffer,
such as Tris-EDTA solution. Proteinase K can be added to assist in
the disruption and to prevent nonspecific degradation of the DNA.
RNase is sometimes added to eliminate contaminating RNA. The
DNA yield is quantitated spectrophotometrically, and the DNA
sample integrity is visually checked, if necessary, on an agarose
gel followed by ethidium bromide staining. Intact DNA appears
as a high–molecular-weight single band, whereas degraded DNA
is identified as a smear of variably sized fragments. After extraction, the DNA is stored at 4°C prior to use in a PCR assay, and is
then stored at –70°C after completion of the assay. Because the
DNA extracted from formalin-fixed tissue is degraded to a variable
extent, an analysis of the extraction product by gel electrophoresis
is not informative. Yield and integrity of the extracted DNA is best
assessed by an amplification control to ensure that the quality and
quantity of input DNA is adequate to yield a valid result.
RNA isolation steps are similar to the ones described previously
for DNA extraction. However, RNA is inherently less stable than
DNA due to its single-strand conformation and susceptibility to
degradation by RNase, which is ubiquitous in the environment.
To ensure preservation of target RNA, special precautions are required, including the use of diethylpyrocarbonate (DEPC) water in
all reagents used in RNA procedures, and special decontamination

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

SPECIMEN REQUIREMENTS FOR
MOLECULAR DIAGNOSTICS

49

50

Principles of Oncology

of work area and pipettes to prevent RNase contamination. The
extracted RNA is usually degraded to a variable extent so that the
analysis of the extraction product by gel electrophoresis is not informative. The quality of the RNA and its suitability for use in a reverse
transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)–based assay is
assessed most appropriately by the demonstration of a positive result
in an assay designed to detect the RNA transcripts for a “housekeeping gene,” such as ABL1 or GAPDH. Any RNA sample in which
the 260/280-nm absorption ratio is below 1.9 or greater than 2.0
may contain contaminants and must be cleaned prior to analysis.
Following nucleic acid extraction, the assay is set up according
to written procedures established during validation/verification of
the assay by qualified laboratory staff. Dedicated areas, equipment,
and materials are designated for various stages of the test (e.g., extraction, pre-PCR and post-PCR for amplification-based assays).
For each molecular oncology test, appropriated positive and negative control specimens are included to each run as a matter of routine quality assessment. A no template (blank) control, containing
the complete reaction mixture except for nucleic acids, is also
included in amplification-based assays to evaluate for amplicon
contamination in the assay reagents that may lead to inaccurate
results. The controls are processed in the same manner as patient
samples to ensure that established performance characteristics are
being met for each step of the assay (extraction, amplification, and
detection). All assay controls and overall performance of the run
must be examined prior to interpretation of sample results. Following acceptance of the controls, results are electronically entered
into reports. The final report is reviewed and signed by the laboratory director or a qualified designee who meets the same qualifications as the director, as defined by CLIA (see previous).

TECHNOLOGIES
Several traditional and emerging techniques are currently available
for mutation detection in cancer (Table 3.2). In the era of personalized medicine, molecular oncology assays are rapidly moving from
a mutational analysis of single genes toward a multigene panel
analysis. As the number of “actionable” mutations such as ALK,
EGFR, BRAF, and others increase, the use of next-generation sequencing platforms is expected to become much more widespread.
Both traditional and emerging testing approaches have advantages
and disadvantages that need to be balanced before a test platform
is implemented into practice.
An important consideration when adding a new oncology test
in the clinical laboratory menu is to define the intended use of
the assay (e.g., diagnosis, prognosis, prediction of therapy response).
The clinical utility of the assay, appropriate types of specimens, the
spectrum of possible mutations that can be found in the genomic
region of interest, and available methods for testing should also be
determined. The laboratory director and ordering physicians should
also discuss the estimated test volume, optimal reporting format,
and required turnaround time for the proposed new test.21–23

Polymerase Chain Reaction
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)24,25 is widely used in all molecular diagnostics laboratories for the rapid amplification of targeted
DNA sequences. The reaction includes the specimen template
DNA, forward and reverse primers (18 to 24 oligonucleotides
long), Taq DNA polymerase, and each of the four nucleotides bases
(dATP, dTTP, dCTP, dGTP). During PCR, selected genomic sequences undergo repetitive temperature cycling (sequential heat
and cooling) that allows for denaturation of double-stranded DNA
template, annealing of the primers to the targeted complementary sequences on the template, and extension of new strands of
DNA by Taq polymerase from nucleotides, using the primers as
the starting point. Each cycle doubles the copy number of PCR

templates for the next round of polymerase activity, resulting in
an exponential amplification of the selected target sequence. The
PCR products (amplicons) are detected by electrophoresis or in
real-time systems simultaneously to the amplification reaction (see
real-time PCR, which follows).
PCR is specifically designed to work on DNA templates because the Taq polymerase does not recognize RNA as a starting
material. Nonetheless, PCR can be adapted to RNA testing by including a reverse transcription step to convert a RNA sequence
into its cognate cDNA sequence before the PCR reaction is performed (see reverse-transcription PCR, which follows). Multiplex
PCR reactions can also be designed with multiple primers for
simultaneous amplification of multiple genomic targets. PCR is
a highly sensitive and specific technique that can be employed
in different capacities for the detection of point mutations, small
deletions, insertions and duplications, as well as gene rearrangements and clonality assessment. Limits of detection can reach
0.1% mutant allele or lower, which is important for the detection
of somatic mutations in oncology because tumor specimens are
usually composed of a mixture of tumor and normal cells. Reverse
transcription PCR can also be used for the relative quantification
of target RNA in minimal residual disease testing, such as BCRABL1 transcripts in CML. Another advantage of PCR is its ability
to amplify small amounts of low quality FFPE-derived DNA. However, applications of PCR can be limited because it cannot amplify
across large or highly repetitive genomic regions. Also, the PCR
reaction can be inhibited by heparin or melanin if present in the
extracted DNA, which may lead to assay failure. Finally, the risk
of false positives due to specimen or amplicon contamination is
an important issue when using PCR-based techniques; therefore,
stringent laboratory procedures, as described previously, are used
to minimize contamination. With the exception of hybridization
assays, such as fluorescence in situ hybridization and genomic microarrays, PCR is the necessary initial step in all current molecular
oncology assays.

Targeted Mutation Analysis Methods
Real-Time PCR (q-PCR)
In real-time PCR (q-PCR), the polymerase chain reaction is performed with a PCR reporter that is usually a fluorescent doublestranded DNA binding dye or a fluorescent reporter probe. The
intensity of the fluorescence produced at each amplification cycle
is monitored in real time, and both quantification and detection
of targeted sequences is accomplished in the reaction tube as the
PCR amplification proceeds.
The intensity of the fluorescent signal for a given DNA fragment (wild type or mutant) is correlated with its quantity, based
on the PCR cycle in which the fluorescence rises above the background (crossing threshold [Ct] or crossing point [Cp]).26 The Ct
value can be used for qualitative or quantitative analysis. Qualitative assays use the Ct as a cutoff for determining “presence” or
“absence” of a given target in the reaction. A qualitative analysis by
q-PCR is particularly useful for a targeted detection of point mutations that are located in mutational hotspots. Examples include
the JAK2 V617F mutation, which is located within exon 14, and is
found in several myeloproliferative neoplasms (polycythemia vera,
essential thrombocythemia, and primary myelofibrosis),27 and the
BRAF V600E,28 which is located within exon 15, and is found in
various cancer types including melanomas and thyroid and lung
cancers.
For a quantitative analysis, the Ct of standards with known template concentration is used to generate a standard curve to which
Ct values of unknown samples are compared. The concentration
of the unknown samples is then extrapolated from values from the
standard curve. The quantity of amplicons produced in a PCR
reaction is proportional to the prevalence of the targeted sequence;

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

51

Chapter 3 Molecular Methods in Cancer

TA B L E 3 . 2

Analytic
Sensitivity

Examples of Applications
in Oncology

Detects only specific
targeted mutations/
chromosomal
translocations
Not suitable for variable
mutations
May not determine the
exact change in nucleotide
sequence

Very high

KRAS, BRAF, and EGFR
mutations in solid tumors
JAK2 V617F and MPL mutations
in myeloproliferative
neoplasms
KIT D816V mutation in systemic
mastocytosis and AML
Quantitation of BCR-ABL1 and
PML-RARA transcripts for
residual disease monitoring in
CML and APL, respectively

Detects small to medium
insertions and deletions
Detects variable insertions
and deletions regardless of
specific alteration
Provides semiquantitative
information regarding
mutation level

Does not determine the
exact change in nucleotide
sequence
Does not detect single
nucleotide substitution
mutations
Limited multiplex capability

High

NPM1 insertion mutations in
AML
FLT3 internal tandem
duplications in AML
JAK2 exon 12 insertions and
deletions in PV
EGFR exon 19 deletions in
NSCLC

FISH

Detects chromosomal
translocation, gene
amplification, and deletion
Morphology of tumor is
preserved, allowing for a
more accurate interpretation
of heterogeneous samples

High cost
Unable to detect small
insertions and deletions
Limited multiplex capability
Does not determine the
exact breakpoint and
change in nucleotide
sequence

High

IGH/BCL2 translocation
detection in follicular
lymphoma and in a subset of
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma
ALK translocation in NSCLC
EWSR1 translocation in soft
tissue tumors
HER2 amplification in breast
cancer
1p/19q deletion in
oligodendroglioma

High-resolution
melting (HRM)
curve analysis

Qualitative detection of
variable single nucleotide
substitutions and small
insertions and deletions

Does not determine the
exact mutation
Result interpretation may
require testing via an
alternate technology
Limited multiplex capability

Medium

KRAS and BRAF mutations in
solid tumors
JAK2 exon 12 mutations in PV

Sanger sequencing

Detects variable single
nucleotide substitutions and
small insertions and deletions
Provides semiquantitative
information about mutation
level
Current gold standard for
mutation detection

Low throughput
Low analytic sensitivity limits
application in specimens
with low tumor burden
Does not detect copy
number changes or large
(>500 bp) insertions and
deletions

Low

KIT mutations in GIST and
melanoma
CEBPA mutations in AML
EGFR mutations in NSCLC

Pyrosequencing

Higher analytical sensitivity than
Sanger sequencing
Detects variable single
nucleotide substitutions and
small insertions and deletions
Provides quantitative
information about mutation
level

Short read lengths limit
analysis to mutational
hotspots
Low throughput

Medium

KRAS and BRAF mutations in
solid tumors

Single nucleotide
extension assay
(SNaPshot)

Simultaneous detection
of targeted nucleotide
substitution mutations
Multiplex capability

Detects only targeted
mutations

High

Small gene panels (3–10) for
melanoma, NSCLC, breast
cancer, and metastatic
colorectal cancer

Method

Advantages

Disadvantages

Real-time PCR
(q-PCR)
Allele-specific PCR
(AS-PCR)
Reverse
transcriptase PCR
(RT-PCR)

Flexible platforms that permit
detection of a variety of
conserved hotspot mutations
including nucleotide
substitutions, small length
mutations (deletions,
insertions), and translocations
High sensitivity is beneficial for
residual disease testing and
specimens with limited tumor
content
Adaptable to quantitative assays

Fragment analysis

(continued)

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

Molecular Methods in Oncology

52

Principles of Oncology

TA B L E 3 . 2
Molecular Methods in Oncology (continued)
Analytic
Sensitivity

Examples of Applications in
Oncology

Requires costly investment
in instrumentation and
bioinformatics
Technology is rapidly evolving
Higher error rates for
insertion and deletion
mutations
Limited ability to sequence
GC-rich regions

High

Small to large gene panels
(3–500) for solid tumor and
hematologic malignancies

Limited application to FFPE
tissue
Does not detect balanced
translocations
May not detect low-level
mutant allele burden

Medium

Analysis of recurrent copy
number variation and LOH in
chronic lymphocytic leukemia
and myeloproliferative
neoplasms

Method

Advantages

Disadvantages

Next-generation
sequencing (NGS)

Quantitative detection of
variable single nucleotide
substitutions, small insertions
and deletions, chromosomal
translocations, and gene copy
number variations
Highly multiplexed
High throughput

Genomic microarray

Simultaneous detection of copy
number variation and LOH
(SNP array)

AML, acute myelogenous leukemia; CML, chronic myelogenous leukemia; APL, acute promyelocytic leukemia; PV, polycythemia vera; NSCLC, non–small-cell
lung carcinoma; GIST, gastrointestinal stromal tumor; GC, guanine-cytosine; LOH, loss of heterozygosity; FFPE, formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded.

therefore, samples with a higher template concentration reaches
the Ct at earlier PCR cycles than one with a low concentration
of the amplified target. Quantitative q-PCR has high analytical
sensitivity for the detection of low mutant allele burden. For that
reason, this method has been widely utilized for monitoring minimal residual disease.

tive neoplasms (primary myelofibrosis, essential thrombocythemia, and/or polycythemia vera),29 the BRAF V600E mutation,30
and KIT D816V mutations in cases of systemic mastocytosis and in
acute myelogenous leukemia (AML).

Allele-Specific PCR

RT-PCR is utilized for the detection and quantification of RNA
transcripts. The first step for all amplification-based assays that
use RNA as a starting material is reverse transcription of RNA
into cDNA, because RNA is not a suitable substrate for Taq polymerase. In RT-PCR, RNA is isolated and reverse transcribed into
cDNA by using a reverse transcriptase enzyme and one of the following: (1) random hexamer primers, which anneal randomly to
RNA and reverse transcribe all RNA in the cell; (2) oligo dT primers, which anneal to the polyA tail of mRNA and reverse transcribe
only mRNA; or (3) gene-specific primers that reverse transcribe
only the target of interest. PCR is subsequently performed on the
cDNA with forward and reverse primers specific to the gene(s) of
interest. The RT-PCR products may then be analyzed by capillary electrophoresis or in real-time systems as in a standard PCR
reaction.
RT-PCR is commonly used for detecting gene fusions during translocation analysis because breakpoints frequently occur
within the intron of each partner gene and the precise intronic
breakpoint locations may be variable. This variability complicates
the design of primers used in DNA-based PCR assays. RT-PCR
tests are advantageous because mature mRNA has intronic sequence spliced out, allowing for simplified primer design within
the affected exon of each partner gene. In this setting, RT-PCR is
useful in tests where both translocation partners are recurrent and
only one or a few exons are involved in each partner gene. For
instance, 95% of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) cases harbor the reciprocal t(15;17) chromosomal translocation and these
breakpoints always occur within intron 2 of the RARA gene. By
contrast, three distinct chromosome 15 breakpoints are involved,
all occurring within the PML gene: intron 6, exon 6, and intron
3. Because the breakpoints in the two genes are recurrent, most
of the reported PML-RARA fusions can be detected by targeting
these three transcript isoforms.
RT-PCR is the method of choice when high sensitivity is required to detect gene translocations. For example, PML-RARA

Allele-specific PCR (AS-PCR) is a variant of conventional PCR.
The method is based on the principle that Taq polymerase is incapable of catalyzing chain elongation in the presence of a mismatch
between the 3′ end of the primer and the template DNA. Selective amplification by AS-PCR is achieved by designing a forward
primer that matches the mutant sequence at the 3′ end primer. A
second mismatch within the primer can be introduced at the adjacent -1 or -2 position to decrease the efficiency of mismatched amplification products. This will minimize the chance of amplifying
and, therefore, detecting the wild-type target. AS-PCR is usually
performed as two PCR reactions: one employing a forward primer
specific for the mutant sequence, the other using a forward primer
specific for the correspondent wild-type sequence. In this case,
a common reverse primer is used for both reactions. Following
amplification, the PCR products are detected by electrophoresis
(capillary or agarose gel) or in q-PCR systems. The detection of
adequate PCR product in the wild-type amplification reaction
is important to control for adequate specimen quality and quantity, particularly when the specimen is negative in the mutationspecific PCR reaction.
AS-PCR is particularly useful for the detection of targeted
point mutations. Multiplex AS-PCR reactions can be designed for
the simultaneous detection of multiple mutations by including
several mutation-specific primers. The method has high analytical sensitivity and specificity and can be easily deployed in most
clinical laboratories. However, an important limitation is that this
approach will not detect mutations other than those for which
specific primers are designed. Therefore, it is utilized for highly
recurrent mutations that occur at specific locations within genes,
rather than for the detection of variable mutations that may occur
throughout a gene.
Examples of AS-PCR applications in oncology include the
detection of JAK2 V617F and MPL mutations in myeloprolifera-

Reverse Transcriptase PCR

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 3 Molecular Methods in Cancer

Threshold

53

Relative fluorescence

50,000
5,000
500

Ct
50 copies
BCR-ABL1

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

40

PCR cycle number
Figure 3.4 Reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR) is a sensitive means to detect BCR-ABL1 fusion
transcripts in CML. RT-PCR can be combined with real-time PCR (q-PCR) to quantitate BCR-ABL1
transcripts across four to six log range levels. Amplification products are detected during each PCR cycle
using a fluorescent probe specific to the PCR product. The accumulated fluorescence in log(10) value
is plotted against the number of PCR cycles. For a given specimen, the PCR cycle number is measured
when the increase in fluorescence is exponential and exceeds a threshold. This point is called the Ct,
which is inversely proportional to the amount of PCR target in the specimen (i.e., lower Ct values indicate
a greater amount of target). Calibration standards of known quantity are used in standard curves to
calculate the amount of target in a tested specimen. These are shown in the chart as different colored
plots. Note that PCR increases the amount of amplification product by a factor of two with each PCR
cycle. Therefore, specimens that produce a Ct value that is one cycle lower are expected to have a
twofold higher concentration of target. Specimens that differ in target concentration by a factor of 10 (as
shown) are expected to have a Ct value 3.3 cycles apart (23.3 = 10).

transcript detection by RT-PCR can detect this fusion transcript
down to 1 tumor cell in the background of 100,000 normal cells.
Detecting low levels of fusion transcript can reveal relapse after
consolidation and guide further treatment.31 RT-PCR can also
be used to quantitate the amount of expression of a gene. One
major application of RT-PCR in this setting includes quantitative
detection of BCR-ABL1 fusion transcript for prognostication and
minimal residual disease testing in CML (Fig. 3.4). In this setting,
a three log decrease in BCR-ABL1 levels is associated with an improved outcome.32,33

Fragment Analysis
A fragment analysis is a PCR amplicon-sizing technique that is
relevant for the detection of small- to medium-length–affecting
mutations (deletions, insertions, and duplications). This is typically performed by capillary electrophoresis, which is capable of
resolving length mutations from approximately 1 to 500 base pairs
in size.
Fragment analysis represents a practical strategy because it enables comprehensive detection of a wide variety of possible length
mutations and has high analytic sensitivity. Further, it can provide
semiquantitative information regarding the relative amount of
mutated alleles. Limitations of this approach include the inability to objectively quantitate mutant allele burdens, the inability
to determine the exact change in nucleotide sequence, and the
inability to detect non–length-affecting mutations such as substitution mutations.

Examples of fragment analysis applications in oncology include the detection of NPM1 insertion mutations (Fig. 3.5),34
EGFR exon 19 deletions, FLT3 internal tandem duplications, and
JAK2 exon 12 mutations.35

High-Resolution Melting Curve Analysis
A high-resolution melting (HRM) curve analysis is a mutation
screening method that allows for the detection of DNA sequence
variations based on specific sequence-related melting profiles of
PCR products.36 Because the melting property of DNA duplexes
is dependent on the biophysical and chemical properties of the
nucleotide sequences, mutant and wild-type DNA sequences
can be differentiated from one another based on their melting
characteristics.
An HRM analysis is preceded by a PCR. The reaction employs
a pair of gene-specific forward and reverse primers, template DNA,
and a reporter that can either be a double-stranded DNA binding dye or a fluorescent reporter probe. Following the last cycle
of the PCR, the amplification products undergo a cooling step
that generates homoduplexes (double-stranded molecules with
perfect complementarity between alleles) and heteroduplexes
(double-stranded molecules with sequence mismatch between
alleles) followed by a heating step that denatures (i.e., melts) the
double-stranded products. Heteroduplexes (mutant DNA) produce a melting profile different from that of wild-type samples
(homoduplexes). In most cases, the reaction is performed in
a q-PCR system that allows for an analysis of amplification and

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

0

54

Principles of Oncology
160

170

Examples of HRM applications in oncology include a mutational analysis of KRAS codons 12, 13, and 6139; a mutation
screening of BRAF codon 60039; and the detection of JAK2 exon
12 mutations (Fig. 3.6).40

7000
6000
5000

NPM1 insertion
mutation

4000
3000
2000
1000
0

A

166 bp

160

170 bp

170

8000
7000
6000
5000
4000

Sanger Sequencing
Mutations in single gene assays are commonly analyzed by targeted
nucleic acid sequencing, most commonly by Sanger sequencing.41
This method, also known as dideoxy sequencing, is based on random incorporation of modified nucleotides (dideoxynucleotides
[ddNTP]) into a DNA sequence during rounds of template extension that result in termination of the chain reaction at various
fragment lengths. Because dideoxynucleotides lack a 3′ hydroxyl
group on the DNA pentose ring, which is required for the addition
of further nucleotides during extension of the new DNA strand,
the chain reaction is terminated at different lengths with the random incorporation of ddNTPs to the sequence. In addition to
the dideoxy modification, each ddNTP (ddATP, ddTTP, ddCTP,
ddGTP) is labeled with fluorescent tags of different fluorescence
wavelengths.
In this method, repetitive cycles of primer extension are performed using denatured PCR products (amplicons) as templates.
Unlike PCR, in which both forward and reverse primers are
added to the same reaction, in Sanger sequencing, the forward
and reverse reactions are performed separately. Bidirectional sequencing is performed to ensure that the entire region of interest

3000
2000
1000
166 bp

Figure 3.5 Fragment analysis. NPM1 mutations are important
prognostic markers in acute myeloid leukemia. Virtually all NPM1
mutations result in a four nucleotide insertion within exon 12. Detection
of these mutations can be accomplished by PCR utilizing primers that
flank the mutation region. The amplification products are sized using
capillary electrophoresis. A mutation is indicated by a PCR fragment that
is 4 bp larger than the wild-type fragment. Mutation positive (A) and
negative (B) cases are shown.

melting data in a close-tube format, thereby minimizing the risk of
amplicon contamination.
An HRM analysis is useful for the qualitative detection of variable point mutations and small length-affecting mutations that
occur within mutational hotspot regions. This method has high
analytical sensitivity and can detect mutations even in a small fraction of alleles in a background of wild-type DNA. However, this
assay does not characterize the specific sequence alteration in the
mutant allele and may be challenging to interpret, especially for
cases with mutation levels that approach the detection limit of the
assay. Samples with a lower abundance of mutant alleles, and consequently a decreased fraction of heteroduplexes that produced
fluorescence decay during the melting analysis, usually produce
a melting curve that may not differ significantly from that of wildtype samples. Likewise, the detection of duplication mutations
may be hampered by the similarity between the mutant and the
duplicated wild-type genome sequences, which may produce only
subtle differences in the melting behavior of the DNA duplexes,
especially for samples with low mutant allele burden. Therefore,
both the mutant sequence and the allelic burden play in the ability
of an HRM analysis to detect mutations.37 Poor quality and impurity of genomic DNA may also lower the sensitivity of an HRM
analysis.38 In instances of patients with a low mutant allelic burden, equivocal mutations identified by this approach may not be
confirmable by an alternate method such as Sanger sequencing.

Fluorescence (%)

B

100

A

JAK2 exon 12 wild type

80
60
40

JAK2 exon 12
mutation

20
0
66

68

70

72
74
76
78
Temperature (°C)

80

82

4
2
Difference

0

JAK2 exon 12 wild type

0
–2
–4

JAK2 exon 12 mutation

–6

B

66

68

70

72
74
76
78
Temperature (°C)

80

82

Figure 3.6 High resolution melting (HRM) curve analysis. An HRM
analysis can be an efficient screening method for detecting a variety
of mutations that may cluster in one or more hotspot regions, such
as occurs with JAK2 exon 12 mutations in polycythemia vera. PCR is
utilized to amplify the target region in the presence of a fluorescent
double-stranded DNA-binding dye. Following PCR, the product is
gradually melted, and the emitted fluorescence is measured. (A) Plotting
fluorescence versus temperature generates a melt curve characteristic
of each amplicon. The presence of a mutation alters the melt profile due
to mismatched double-stranded heteroduplexes of mutant and wild-type
fragments. (B) A difference plot in which sample curves are subtracted
from a wild-type control can accentuate the different melt profiles.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 3 Molecular Methods in Cancer

A

G

C

T

G

G

T

G

G

C

KRAS G12C mutation

A

B

G

C

T

G

Pyrosequencing, also known as sequencing by synthesis, is based
on the real-time detection of pyrophosphate release by nucleotide
incorporation during DNA synthesis.42 In the pyrosequencing reaction, as nucleotides are added to the nucleic acid chain by polymerase, pyrophosphate molecules are released and subsequently
converted to ATP by ATP sulfurylase. Light is produced by an ATPdriven luciferase reaction via oxidation of a luciferin molecule.
The amount of light produced is proportional to the number of
incorporated nucleotides in the sequence. When a nucleotide is not
incorporated into the reaction, no pyrophosphate is released and
the unused nucleotide is degraded by apyrase. Light is converted
into peaks in a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera. Individual
dNTP nucleotides are sequentially added to the reaction, and the
sequence of nucleotides that produce chemiluminescent signals
allow the template sequence to be determined. Mutations appear
as new peaks in the pyrogram sequence or variations of the expected
peak heights.43
Pyrosequencing is particularly useful for the detection of
point mutations and insertion/deletion mutations that occur at
short stretches in mutational hotspots. This method has higher
analytical sensitivity than Sanger sequencing and can provide
quantitative information about mutation levels in a sample. Pyrosequencing can also be used for the detection and quantification of gene-specific DNA methylation and gene copy number
assessments. A microfluidic pyrosequencing platform is available
for massive parallel sequencing. However, this method is not well
suited for detecting mutations that are scattered across the entire
gene because pyrosequencing read lengths are limited to ∼100 to
250 base pairs.43
Examples of pyrosequencing applications in oncology include
the mutational analysis of BRAF (codon 600),44,45 KRAS (codons
12, 13, 61),45 NRAS (codon 61),45 and the methylation analysis of
MGMT in glioblastoma multiforme.46,47

Single Nucleotide Extension Assay
(SNaPshot®)

T

A

Pyrosequencing

G

T

G

G

C

KRAS wild type

Figure 3.7 Sanger sequencing. KRAS mutation testing requires a
technology like Sanger sequencing, which can detect the diverse variety
of mutations that span multiple nucleotide sites. Overlapping peaks in
the DNA sequence chromatogram indicate the presence of a mutation.
The top panel (A) displays a G to T nucleotide substitution in codon
12. This results in a GGT to TGT codon change, leading to a glycine to
cysteine (G12C) amino acid substitution. Activating mutations in KRAS
such as G12C are associated with resistance to epidermal growth factor
receptor (EGFR) targeted therapies in colon cancer. The bottom panel (B)
displays a wild-type KRAS sequence.

The single nucleotide extension assay is a variant of dideoxy sequencing. This method consists of a single base extension of an
unlabeled primer that anneals one base upstream to the relevant
mutation with fluorophore-labeled dideoxynucleotides (ddNTP).
Multiplexed reactions can be designed with multiple primers of
differing lengths for simultaneous amplification of multiple genomic targets.48 Mutations are identified based on amplicon size
and fluorophore color via capillary electrophoresis. When a mutation is present, an alternative dideoxynucleotide triphosphate is
incorporated, resulting in a different colored peak with a different
amplicon length than the expected wild-type one.
The single nucleotide extension assay is particularly useful for
the simultaneous detection of recurrent point mutations. Clinically, it has been employed for analyses of mutational hotspots in
multiple genes involved in melanomas, non–small-cell lung cancers, breast cancers, and metastatic colorectal cancers.49 The assay
has higher analytical sensitivity than Sanger sequencing and can
detect low-level mutations in FFPE-derived DNA, making it advantageous for biopsy specimens with limited tumor involvement.
This assay, however, can only detect mutations that are immediately adjacent to the 3′ to the end of the primer.

Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization
FISH allows for the visualization of specific chromosome nucleic
acid sequences within a cellular preparation. This method involves the annealing of a large single-stranded fluorophore-labeled
oligonucleotide probe to complementary DNA target sequences
within a tissue or cell preparation. The hybridization of the probe
at the specific DNA region within a nucleus is visible by direct
detection using fluorescence microscopy.

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

for each analysis is visualized adequately to produce unequivocal
sequence readout. The sequencing products of increasing size are
resolved by capillary electrophoresis, and the DNA sequence is
determined by detection of the fluorescently labeled nucleotide
sequences.
Sanger sequencing has the ability to detect a wide variety of
nucleotide alterations in the DNA, including point mutations, deletions, insertions, and duplications. This technique is especially
useful when mutations are scattered across the entire gene, when
genes have not been sufficiently studied to determine mutational
hot spots, or when it is relevant to determine the exact change in
DNA sequence. Sanger sequencing can also provide semiquantitative information about mutation levels in a sample based on the
evaluation of average peak drop values from forward and reverse
mutant peaks on sequence chromatograms. Limitations of this
approach include low throughput and limited diagnostic sensitivity. In general, heterozygous mutations at allelic levels lower than
20% may be difficult to detect by Sanger sequencing. This may
be particularly problematic when testing for somatic mutations in
oncogenes, such as JAK2 exon 12 in polycythemia vera, which may
occur at low levels.35
Examples of Sanger sequencing applications in oncology include the detection of KIT mutations for gastrointestinal stromal
tumors (GIST) and melanomas that arise from mucosal membranes and acral skin, EGFR mutations for non–small-cell lung
cancers, and KRAS mutations for colorectal and lung carcinomas
(Fig. 3.7).

55

Principles of Oncology

A

B

Positive
(rearranged)

FISH can be used for the quantitative assessment of gene amplification or deletion and for the qualitative evaluation of gene
rearrangements. Many oncologic FISH assays employ two probe
types: locus specific probes, which are complementary to the gene
of interest, and centromeric probes, which hybridize to the alphasatellite regions near the centromere of a specific chromosome
and help in the enumeration of the number of copies of that
chromosome.
For the quantitative assessment of gene amplification, a locusspecific probe and a centromeric probe are labeled with two different fluorophores. The signals generated by each of these probes
are counted and a ratio of the targeted gene to the chromosome
copy number is calculated. The amount of signal produced by the
locus-specific probe is proportional to the number of copies of the
targeted gene in a cell. This type of gene amplification assay can
be used for the detection of HER2 gene amplification as an adjunct to existing clinical and pathologic information as an aid in
the assessment of stage II, node-positive breast cancer patients for
whom Herceptin treatment is being considered. It can also be used
for an assessment of MYCN amplification in neuroblastoma.
For the detection of deletion mutations, dual-probe hybridization is usually performed using locus-specific probes. For instance,
for the detection of 1p/19q codeletion in oligodendrogliomas, locusspecific probe sets for 1p36 and 19q13, and 1q25 and 19p13 (control) are used. The frequencies of signal patterns for each of these
loci are evaluated. A signal pattern with 1p and 19q signals that are
less than control signals is consistent with deletion of these loci.
Gene rearrangements/chromosomal translocations in hematologic or solid malignancies can be tested using locus-specific dualfusion or break-apart probes. Dual-color, dual-fusion translocation
assays employ two probes that are located in two separate genes
involved in a specific rearrangement. Each gene probe is labeled
in a different color. This design detects translocations by the juxtaposition of both probe signals. Dual-color, dual-fusion translocation assays are very specific for detecting a selected translocation.
But, it can only be used for detecting translocations that involve
consistent partners, where both partners are known. Alternate
translocations with different fusion partners are not detected by
this approach. Examples of application of dual-fusion probes in
oncology include for the detection of the IGH-BCL2 translocation
that occurs in most follicular lymphomas and a subset of diffuse
large B-cell lymphomas (Fig. 3.8) and for the detection of IGHCCND1 rearrangements in mantle cell lymphomas.
In break-apart FISH assays, both dual-colored probes flank the
breakpoint region in a single gene that represents the constant
partner in the translocation. By this approach, rearranged alleles
show two split signals, whereas normal alleles show fusion signals.
This design is particularly useful for genes that fuse with multiple
translocation partners (e.g., EWSR1 gene, which may undergo rearrangement with multiple partner genes, including FLI1, ERG,
ETV1, FEV, and E1AF in Ewing sarcoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumor [PNET]; WT1 in desmoplastic small round cell tumors;
CHN in extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma; and ATF1 in clear
cell sarcoma and angiomatoid fibrous histiocytoma).50 The disadvantage of this approach is that break-apart FISH does not allow for
the identification of the “unknown” partner in the translocation.
FISH has the advantage of being applicable to a variety of specimen types, including FFPE tissue. Because probes are hybridized
to tissue in situ, the tumor morphology is preserved, which allows
for an interpretation of the assay even in the context of heterogeneous samples. However, FISH is a targeted approach that will
only detect specific alterations. Because most probes are large
(e.g., >100 kb), small deletions or insertions will not be detected.
In addition, poor tissue fixation, fixation artifacts, nuclear truncation on tissue slides, and nuclear overlaps are potential pitfalls of
this technique that may hamper interpretation. Some intrachromosomal rearrangements (e.g., RET-PTC and EML4-ALK) may
be challenging to interpret by FISH due to subtle rearrangements
of the probe signals on the same chromosome arm.

Negative
(wild type)

56

IGH-BCL2
Dual-fusion probe

ALK
Break-apart probe

Figure 3.8 Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). (A) Recurrent
chromosomal translocations such as IGH-BCL2 (occurring in B-cell
lymphomas) can be effectively detected with a dual-fusion probe
strategy. This design utilizes a green probe specific to the IGH locus
and a red probe specific to the BCL2 gene, with each probe spanning
their respective breakpoint region. Individual green and red probe
signals indicate a lack of translocation. Colocalization of green and red
probes is observed when an IGH-BCL2 translocation is present. (B) ALK
rearrangements in non–small-cell lung cancers may involve a variety
of translocation partners, including EML4, TFG, and KIF5B. Therefore,
a break-apart FISH probe strategy is utilized that will detect any ALK
rearrangement, regardless of the partner gene. Fluorescently labeled
red and green probes are designed on opposite sides of the ALK gene
breakpoint region. With this design, a normal ALK gene is observed as
overlapping or adjacent red and green fluorescent signals, whereas a
rearranged ALK gene is indicated by split red and green signals. ALK
testing in lung cancer has become widespread in use because of the
significant therapeutic implications.

Methylation Analysis
Changes in the methylation status of cytosine in DNA regions
enriched for the sequence CpG (also known as CpG islands) are
early events in many cancers and permanent changes found in
many tumors. The detection of aberrant methylation of cancerrelated genes may aid in the diagnosis, prognosis, and/or determination of the metastatic potential of tumors.
The most common approaches for the detection of methylation are based on the conversion of unmethylated cytosine
bases into uracil after sodium bisulfite treatment, which is then
converted to thymidine during PCR. By this approach, bisulfite-treated methylated alleles have different DNA sequences as
compared with their corresponding unmethylated alleles. The differences between methylated and unmethylated DNA sequences
can be evaluated by several methods, including methylationsensitive restriction enzyme analysis, methylation-specific PCR,
semiquantitative q-PCR, Sanger sequencing, pyrosequencing,
and next-generation sequencing.
The methylation status of oncogenic genes can also be assessed
by methylation-sensitive multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MS-MLPA) assay.51,52 MS-MLPA is a variant of multiplex PCR in which oligonucleotide probes hybridized to the
targeted DNA samples are directly amplified using one pair of
universal primers. This method is not based on bisulfite conver-

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 3 Molecular Methods in Cancer

Microsatellite Instability Analysis
Microsatellites are short, tandem-repeated DNA sequences with
repeating units of one to six base pairs in length. Microsatellites
are distributed throughout the human genome, and individual
repeat loci often vary in length from one individual to another.
Microsatellite instability (MSI) is the change in length of a microsatellite allele due to either insertion or deletion of repeating
units and a failure of the DNA mismatch repair (MMR) system to
repair these replication errors. This genomic instability arises in a
variety of human neoplasms where tumor cells have a decreased
ability to faithfully replicate DNA. MSI is particularly associated
with colorectal cancer, where 15% to 20% of sporadic tumors show
MSI, in contrast to the more common chromosomal instability
(CIN) phenotype, with MSI status being an independent prognostic indicator. MSI analysis is also clinically useful in identifying
patients at increased risk of hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC)/Lynch syndrome, where a germline mutation of an
MMR gene causes a familial predisposition to colorectal cancer.
MSI analysis alone is not sufficient to make a diagnosis of a germline MMR mutation given the high rate of sporadic MSI-positive
colorectal tumors, but a positive result is an indication for followup genetic testing and counseling.
In an MSI analysis, DNA is extracted from tumor tissue and the
corresponding adjacent normal mucosa. The DNA is subjected to
multiplex PCR using fluorescent-labeled primers for coamplification of five mononucleotide repeat markers for MSI determination
and two pentanucleotide markers for confirming tumor/normal
sample identity. The resulting PCR fragments are separated and
detected using capillary electrophoresis. Allelic profiles of normal versus tumor tissues are compared, and MSI is scored as the
presence of novel microsatellite lengths in tumor DNA compared
to normal DNA. Instability in two or more out of five mononucleotide microsatellite markers in tumor DNA compared to normal DNA is defined as MSI-H (high). MSI-L (low) is defined as
instability in one out of five mononucleotide markers in tumor
DNA compared to normal DNA. Tumors with no instability (zero
out of five altered mononucleotide markers) are defined as microsatellite stable (MSS).54,55

Loss of Heterozygosity Analysis
Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) is a common event in cancer that usually occurs due to deletion of a chromosome segment and results
in a loss of one copy of an allele. LOH is a common occurrence
in tumor suppressor genes and may contribute to tumorigenesis
when the second allele is subsequently inactivated by a second
“hit” due to mutation or deletion.
LOH studies are used to identify genomic imbalance in tumors, indicating possible sites of tumor suppressor gene (TSG)
deletion. LOH studies can be done by multiplex PCR analysis of
microsatellites (short tandem repeats [STRs]), FISH, and genomic

microarrays). By PCR, microsatellites located in the vicinity of a
tumor suppressor gene are used as surrogate markers for the presence of the gene of interest. DNA is extracted from tumor tissue
and corresponding adjacent normal mucosa. The DNA is subjected to multiplex PCR using fluorescent-labeled STR primers.
Peak height ratio of informative (nonhomozygous) alleles at each
locus is calculated from both normal and tumor tissues. LOH is
defined as the decrease in peak height of one of the two alleles,
relative to the allele peak heights of the normal sample.
An example of applications of LOH studies in oncology include
an analysis of 1p/19q loss in oligodendrogliomas, and an analysis of
1p loss in parathyroid carcinomas.

Whole Genome Analysis Methods
Next-Generation Sequencing
Next-generation sequencing (NGS), also known as massive parallel sequencing or deep sequencing, is an emerging technology that has revolutionized the speed, throughput, and cost of
sequencing and has facilitated the discovery of clinically relevant
genetic biomarkers for diagnosis, prognosis, and personalized
therapeutics. By way of this technology, multiple genes or the
entire exome or genome can be interrogated simultaneously
in multiple parallel reactions instead of a single-gene basis as
in Sanger sequencing or pyrosequencing. Currently, the most
common NGS approach for cancer testing in the clinical setting employs targeted sequencing of specific genes and mutation
hotspot regions. This targeted approach increases sensitivity for
the detection of low-level mutations by increasing the depth of
sequence coverage.
Presently, there are numerous NGS platforms that employ
different sequencing technologies. A comprehensive review and
comparison of NGS platforms is beyond the scope of this chapter and has been reviewed elsewhere.56,57 A generalized clinical
workflow is shown (Fig. 3.9). Frequently, multiple DNA samples
are individually barcoded and pooled together to leverage platform throughput. Pooled libraries are prepared and enriched,
and single DNA molecules are arrayed in solid surfaces, glass
slides, or beads and sequenced in situ using reversible DNA
chain terminators or iterative cycles of oligonucleotide ligation.
NGS signal outputs are based on luminescence, fluorescence, or
changes in ion concentration. Robust bioinformatics pipelines
are required for an alignment of reads to a reference genome
sequence, variant calling, variant annotation, and to assist with
result reporting.58
NGS can be used for the detection of single nucleotide variants, small insertions and deletions, translocations, inversions,
alternative splicing, and copy number variations given sufficient
depth of genomic DNA sequence (Fig. 3.10). Technical limitations of this technique include difficulty in sequencing guanine-cytosine (GC)–rich genomic regions, and erroneous sequencing of
homologous DNA regions (e.g., pseudogenes) that may confound
interpretation.
Examples of applications of NGS in oncology include small
targeted panels (3 to 50 genes) for non–small-cell lung cancers,
melanomas, colon cancers, and acute myeloid leukemias.57,59–62
Larger panels (50 to 500 genes) are increasingly being utilized,
particularly in both clinical trials and research.
Massively parallel sequencing of RNA (RNA-Seq) can be used
for determining sequence variants, alternative splicing, gene rearrangements, and allelic expression of mutant transcripts. To date,
this technique has been used primarily for discovery rather than
clinical applications, but it is likely to play an increasing role
in clinical diagnostics as the technology improves. For transcriptome sequencing, the RNA must first be converted to cDNA,
which is then fragmented and entered into library construction.
After sequencing, reads are aligned to a reference genome, compared with known transcript sequences, or assembled de novo

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

sion of unmethylated cytosine bases into uracil. Instead, the target
sequences detected by MS-MLPA probes contain a restriction site
recognized by methylation-sensitive endonucleases. A probe amplification product will only be obtained if the CpG site is methylated because digested probes cannot be amplified during PCR.
The level of methylation is determined by resolving PCR products
by capillary electrophoresis and calculating the normalized ratio
of each target probe peak area in both digested and undigested
specimens. The ratio corresponds to the percentage of methylation
present in the specimen.
Examples of applications of methylation analysis in oncology
include an analysis of MLH1 promoter hypermethylation in microsatellite unstable sporadic colorectal carcinomas, an analysis of
MGMT promoter methylation status in glioblastoma multiforme
patients treated with alkylating chemotherapy, and SEPT9 promoter methylation in DNA derived from blood plasma in colorectal cancer patients.53

57

58

Principles of Oncology

1

2

3

4

PDGFRA
P
DGFRA
MET

Library
prep

Fragmentation

WT1

Enrichment

Limited
PCR

KIT
IDH2
FLT3

DNA

Enriched
library

BRAF
K-ras
Gene capture
probes

6

7

8
K-ras

Alignment

Paired-end
next generation
sequencing

9

Exon2

Tier 1 informatics
Exon3

BAM
File

Cleaned
BAM
File

SNV
Indel

Trans
lo

cation

Laser

ACT A G C T A G CCAG
ACT A G C G A G CCAG
GCT A G C
TAGCCG
GCT A G C T A G CTGTCTAGCCG
GCT A C T C A T GCATCCAGC
GCT A C T C A T GCATCCAGC

Alignment

10

Tier 2 informatics

Case sign out

11

Report generation

dbSNp

CGW

VCF file

Cosmic
db
Local
curated
db

Figure 3.9 Next-generation sequencing (NGS) workflow in a clinical laboratory. Targeted-panel sequencing offers tremendous promise for cancer
diagnostics due to the massive improvement in throughput, speed, and cost. NGS is a complex, multiday process that requires significant infrastructure
and expertise to deploy in a clinical setting. The process begins with genomic DNA extraction, which is fragmented and to which linkers are ligated.
In this targeted gene panel–based example, the sequencing libraries are enriched for the target genes, which are subjected to a limited PCR prior
to sequencing. Sequence reads are mapped to a reference genome and subjected to several bioinformatics tools to provide variant calling results
and variant annotation. Clinical interpretation and case sign out is performed by a physician with expertise in molecular pathology. BAM, Binary
Sequence Alignment/Map; SNV, Single Nucleotide Variant; VCF, Variant Call Format; CGW, Clinical Genomicist Workstation; dbSNP, The Single Nucleotide
Polymorphism Database. (Used with permission from Shashikant Kulkarni PhD and Eric Duncavage MD.)

to construct a genome-scale transcription map. Expression levels are determined from the total number of sequence reads that
map to the exons of a particular gene, normalized by the length
of exons that can be uniquely mapped.56 Compared with genomic microarrays, RNA-Seq has a greater ability to distinguish
RNA isoforms, determine allelic expression, and reveal sequence
variants.
Chromatin immunoprecipitation with sequencing (ChIP-Seq)
can be used to determine the genome-wide location of chromatinbinding transcription factors or specific epigenetic modifications
of histones. This has proved to be a very powerful research tool,
which to date has not been used for clinical diagnostics. Proteins
in contact with genomic DNA are chemically cross-linked (usually with formaldehyde treatment) to their binding sites, the DNA
is fragmented, and the proteins cross-linked with DNA are then
immunoprecipitated with antibodies specific for the proteins (or
specific epigenetic histone modification) of interest. The DNA
harvested from the immunoprecipitate is converted into a library
for NGS. The obtained reads are mapped to the reference genome
of interest to generate a genome-wide protein binding map.63,64
ChIP-Seq is rapidly replacing chromatin immunoprecipitation
and microarray hybridization (ChIP-on-chip) technology65 because of its higher sensitivity and resolution.66

Genomic Microarrays
High-density genomic microarrays are widely used for whole
genome assessment of copy number changes, LOH, and geno-

typing. In array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH),
cloned genomic probes are arrayed onto glass slides and serves
as targets for the competitive hybridization of normal and tumor
DNA. In the aCGH reaction, tumor DNA and DNA from a
normal control sample are labeled with different fluorophores.
These samples are denatured and hybridized together to the arrayed single-strand probes. Digital imaging systems are used to
quantify the relative fluorescence intensities of the labeled DNA
probes that have hybridized to each target probe. The fluorescence ratio of the tumor and control hybridization signals is
determined at different positions along the genome, which provides information on the relative copy number of sequences in
the tumor genome as compared to the normal genome.67 This
method is able to detect copy number variation, such as deletions, duplications, and gene amplification, but it cannot detect
polymorphic allele changes.
An SNP array has the ability to detect LOH profiles in addition to high-resolution detection of copy number aberrations, such
as amplifications and deletions. This method employs thousands
of unique fluorescent-labeled nucleotide probe sequences arrayed
on a chip to which a fragmented single-stranded specimen DNA
binds to their complementary partners. Each SNP site is interrogated by complementary sets of probes containing perfect matches
and mismatches to each SNP site. Each probe is associated with
one of the two alleles of an SNP (also known as A and B). Relative
fluorescence intensity depends on both the amount of target DNA
in the sample, as well as the affinity between target and probe. An
analysis of the raw fluorescence intensity is done by computational

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 3 Molecular Methods in Cancer

A

G
S

A

T

T
K

A

T

C

A
V

C

T

G
T

T

A

G
A

C

BRAF V600 mutation

59

algorithms that convert the set of probe intensities into genotypes.
Deleted genomic regions are identified as having an LOH associated with copy number reduction. A copy-neutral LOH is detected
when SNPs expected to be heterozygous in the normal sample
are detected as homozygous in the tumor sample without copy
number variation. A copy neutral LOH may arise from somatic
homologous recombination of a mutated tumor suppressor allele
and its surrounding DNA that replaces the other allele (uniparental disomy [UPD]). SNP microarrays are the only genomic microarrays that are able to identify UPD. Array technologies cannot
detect true balanced chromosome abnormalities and low-level
mosaicism.
Examples of genomic microarrays applications in oncology
include the detection of copy number variations and LOH in
chronic lymphocytic leukemia68 and recurrent cytogenetic abnormalities in MDS (e.g., 5q-, -7 or 7q-, +8, 20q-).69

A

B

G
S

A

T

T
K

T

C

A
V

C

T

G
T

T

A

G
A

C

BRAF wild type

Figure 3.10 Next-generation sequencing (NGS). Hundreds to thousands
of sequence reads are mapped and horizontally aligned to specific targeted
regions in the reference genome (sequence shown on bottom of each
panel). A software-assisted analysis assists in the detection of mutations,
displayed as colored bars in each read above the mutation site. A wildtype sequence within each read is displayed in gray. Mutation frequency
correlates to the number of times the mutant sequence is detected
compared to the total number of reads at that nucleotide position. Shown
are sequencing results from BRAF V600E mutation positive (A) and
negative (B) melanomas. The A to T base substitution that leads to the
V600E mutation is displayed in red. Patients with metastatic melanoma
that harbors the BRAF V600E mutation are candidates for targeted therapy.

Gene expression signatures of multiple cancer biomarkers are
starting to be incorporated into clinical practice as an adjunct to
clinical and pathologic information in diverse cancer management
settings. An example of a multigene expression–based test in current use includes Oncotype DX, which is a quantitative RT-PCR–
based assay that measures the expression of 21 genes in FFPE
breast tumors. The test is designed to predict the potential benefit
of chemotherapy and the likelihood of distant breast cancer recurrence in women with node negative or node positive, estrogen
receptor (ER)-positive, and HER2-negative invasive breast cancer.
This test has been in-corporated into current American Society of
Clinical Oncology (ASCO) and National Comprehensive Cancer
Network (NCCN) for breast cancer management.70 Prospective
trials are in progress to evaluate other multigene tests for early stage
breast cancer.
With the rapid advances in molecular diagnostic technologies,
it is likely that many mutation- and expression-based panels analyzing hundreds if not thousands of genes, or even the complete
genome or transcriptome, will enter widespread use. Some of the
many challenges to address will be to provide evidence-based,
actionable reports that guide the oncologist to more effective
therapies, to learn from the results of such testing to improve the
algorithms guiding therapy, to handle the incidental findings in
such testing in an ethically responsible way, and ultimately, with
the drugs available, to provide sufficient improvements in outcomes so that society will be willing to bear the costs.

R E F E R E N C E S
1. Lennard L, Cartwright CS, Wade R, et al. Thiopurine methyltransferase
genotype-phenotype discordance and thiopurine active metabolite formation in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. Br J Clin Pharmacol
2013;76(1):125–136.
2. Haber DA, Settleman J. Cancer: drivers and passengers. Nature
2007;446(7132):145–146.
3. Hayashi T, Sudo J. Relieving effect of saline on cephaloridine nephrotoxicity
in rats. Chem Pharm Bull (Tokyo) 1989;37(3):785–790.
4. Brodeur GM, Seeger RC, Schwab M, et al. Amplification of N-myc in
untreated human neuroblastomas correlates with advanced disease stage.
Science 1984;224(4653):1121–1124.
5. Seeger RC, Brodeur GM, Sather H, et al. Association of multiple copies of
the N-myc oncogene with rapid progression of neuroblastomas. N Engl J
Med 1985;313(18):1111–1116.
6. Weinstein JL, Katzenstein HM, Cohn SL. Advances in the diagnosis and
treatment of neuroblastoma. Oncologist 2003;8(3):278–292.
7. Pui CH, Crist WM, Look AT. Biology and clinical significance of cytogenetic abnormalities in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Blood
1990;76(8):1449–1463.
8. Lee JA, Lupski JR. Genomic rearrangements and gene copy-number alterations as a cause of nervous system disorders. Neuron 2006;52(1):103–121.
9. Kuiper RP, Ligtenberg MJ, Hoogerbrugge N, et al. Germline copy number
variation and cancer risk. Curr Opin Genet Dev 2010;20(3):282–289.

10. Shlien A, Malkin D. Copy number variations and cancer. Genome Med
2009;1(6):62.
11. Lynch TJ, Bell DW, Sordella R, et al. Activating mutations in the epidermal
growth factor receptor underlying responsiveness of non–small-cell lung cancer to gefitinib. N Engl J Med 2004;350(21):2129–2139.
12. Paez JG, Janne PA, Lee JC, et al. EGFR mutations in lung cancer: correlation with clinical response to gefitinib therapy. Science 2004;304(5676):
1497–1500.
13. Forbes SA, Bindal N, Bamford S, et al. COSMIC: mining complete cancer
genomes in the Catalogue of Somatic Mutations in Cancer. Nucleic Acids
Res 2011;39(Database issue):D945–950.
14. Van Allen EM, Wagle N, Levy MA. Clinical analysis and interpretation of
cancer genome data. J Clin Oncol 2013;31(15):1825–1833.
15. Newman B, Mu H, Butler LM, et al. Frequency of breast cancer attributable to BRCA1 in a population-based series of American women. JAMA
1998;279(12):915–921.
16. Ford D, Easton DF, Stratton M, et al. Genetic heterogeneity and penetrance
analysis of the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes in breast cancer families. The
Breast Cancer Linkage Consortium. Am J Hum Genet 1998;62(3):676–689.
17. Antoniou A, Pharoah PD, Narod S, et al. Average risks of breast and ovarian
cancer associated with BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations detected in case series
unselected for family history: a combined analysis of 22 studies. Am J Hum
Genet 2003;72(5):1117–1130.

PRINCIPLES OF ONCOLOGY

Expression Panels

60

Principles of Oncology

18. Chen S, Iversen ES, Friebel T, et al. Characterization of BRCA1 and BRCA2
mutations in a large United States sample. J Clin Oncol 2006;24(6):863–871.
19. Bachner P, Hamlin W. Federal regulation of clinical laboratories and the
Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988—Part II. Clin Lab
Med 1993;13(4):987–994.
20. Halling KC, Schrijver I, Persons DL. Test verification and validation for
molecular diagnostic assays. Arch Pathol Lab Med 2012;136(1):11–13.
21. Jennings L, Van Deerlin VM, Gulley ML, College of American Pathologists Molecular Pathology Resource C. Recommended principles and practices for validating clinical molecular pathology tests. Arch Pathol Lab Med
2009;133(5):743–755.
22. Jennings LJ, Smith FA, Halling KC, et al. Design and analytic validation
of BCR-ABL1 quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay for monitoring minimal residual disease. Arch Pathol Lab Med
2012;136(1):33–40.
23. Pont-Kingdon G, Gedge F, Wooderchak-Donahue W, et al. Design and analytical validation of clinical DNA sequencing assays. Arch Pathol Lab Med
2012;136(1):41–46.
24. Saiki RK, Gelfand DH, Stoffel S, et al. Primer-directed enzymatic amplification of DNA with a thermostable DNA polymerase. Science 1988;239(4839):
487–491.
25. Mullis KB. The unusual origin of the polymerase chain reaction. Sci Am
1990;262(4):56–61, 64–65.
26. Bernard PS, Wittwer CT. Real-time PCR technology for cancer diagnostics.
Clin Chem 2002;48(8):1178–1185.
27. Bench AJ, Baxter EJ, Green AR. Methods for detecting mutations in the
human JAK2 gene. Methods Mol Biol 2013;967:115–131.
28. Halait H, Demartin K, Shah S, et al. Analytical performance of a real-time
PCR-based assay for V600 mutations in the BRAF gene, used as the companion diagnostic test for the novel BRAF inhibitor vemurafenib in metastatic
melanoma. Diagn Mol Pathol 2012;21(1):1–8.
29. Furtado LV, Weigelin HC, Elenitoba-Johnson KS, et al. Detection of
MPL mutations by a novel allele-specific PCR-based strategy. J Mol Diagn
2013;15(6):810–818.
30. Lang AH, Drexel H, Geller-Rhomberg S, et al. Optimized allele-specific
real-time PCR assays for the detection of common mutations in KRAS and
BRAF. J Mol Diagn 2011;13(1):23–28.
31. Wang ZY, Chen Z. Acute promyelocytic leukemia: from highly fatal to highly
curable. Blood 2008;111(5):2505–2515.
32. O’Brien SG, Guilhot F, Larson RA, et al. Imatinib compared with interferon
and low-dose cytarabine for newly diagnosed chronic-phase chronic myeloid
leukemia. N Engl J Med 2003;348(11):994–1004.
33. Hughes TP, Kaeda J, Branford S, et al. Frequency of major molecular responses to imatinib or interferon alfa plus cytarabine in newly diagnosed
chronic myeloid leukemia. N Engl J Med 2003;349(15):1423–1432.
34. Szankasi P, Jama M, Bahler DW. A new DNA-based test for detection of
nucleophosmin exon 12 mutations by capillary electrophoresis. J Mol Diagn
2008;10(3):236–241.
35. Furtado LV, Weigelin HC, Elenitoba-Johnson KS, et al. A multiplexed fragment analysis-based assay for detection of JAK2 exon 12 mutations. J Mol
Diagn 2013;15(5):592–599.
36. Reed GH, Kent JO, Wittwer CT. High-resolution DNA melting analysis for
simple and efficient molecular diagnostics. Pharmacogenomics 2007;8(6):
597–608.
37. Palais RA, Liew MA, Wittwer CT. Quantitative heteroduplex analysis for single
nucleotide polymorphism genotyping. Anal Biochem 2005;346(1):167–175.
38. Carillo S, Henry L, Lippert E, et al. Nested high-resolution melting curve
analysis a highly sensitive, reliable, and simple method for detection of JAK2
exon 12 mutations—clinical relevance in the monitoring of polycythemia.
J Mol Diagn 2011;13(3):263–270.
39. Ney JT, Froehner S, Roesler A, et al. High-resolution melting analysis as a
sensitive prescreening diagnostic tool to detect KRAS, BRAF, PIK3CA, and
AKT1 mutations in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues. Arch Pathol
Lab Med 2012;136(9):983–992.
40. Jones AV, Cross NC, White HE, et al. Rapid identification of JAK2 exon
12 mutations using high resolution melting analysis. Haematologica Oct
2008;93(10):1560–1564.
41. Sanger F, Nicklen S, Coulson AR. DNA sequencing with chain-terminating
inhibitors. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1977;74(12):5463–5467.
42. Ronaghi M, Uhlén M, Nyrén P. A sequencing method based on real-time
pyrophosphate. Science 1998;281(5375):363, 365.
43. Ronaghi M, Shokralla S, Gharizadeh B. Pyrosequencing for discovery and analysis of DNA sequence variations. Pharmacogenomics 2007;8(10):1437–1441.
44. Shigaki H, Baba Y, Watanabe M, et al. KRAS and BRAF mutations in 203
esophageal squamous cell carcinomas: pyrosequencing technology and literature review. Ann Surg Oncol 2013;20:485–491.

45. Vaughn CP, Zobell SD, Furtado LV, et al. Frequency of KRAS, BRAF,
and NRAS mutations in colorectal cancer. Genes Chromosomes Cancer
2011;50(5):307–312.
46. Everhard S, Tost J, El Abdalaoui H, et al. Identification of regions correlating
MGMT promoter methylation and gene expression in glioblastomas. Neuro
Oncol 2009;11(4):348–356.
47. Mikeska T, Bock C, El-Maarri O, et al. Optimization of quantitative MGMT
promoter methylation analysis using pyrosequencing and combined bisulfite
restriction analysis. J Mol Diagn 2007;9(3):368–381.
48. Dias-Santagata D, Akhavanfard S, David SS, et al. Rapid targeted mutational
analysis of human tumours: a clinical platform to guide personalized cancer
medicine. EMBO Mol Med 2010;2(5):146–158.
49. Su Z, Dias-Santagata D, Duke M, et al. A platform for rapid detection of
multiple oncogenic mutations with relevance to targeted therapy in non–
small-cell lung cancer. J Mol Diagn 2011;13(1):74–84.
50. Lazar A, Abruzzo LV, Pollock RE, et al. Molecular diagnosis of sarcomas: chromosomal translocations in sarcomas. Arch Pathol Lab Med
2006;130(8):1199–1207.
51. Nygren AO, Ameziane N, Duarte HM, et al. Methylation-specific MLPA
(MS-MLPA): simultaneous detection of CpG methylation and copy number
changes of up to 40 sequences. Nucleic Acids Res 2005;33(14):e128.
52. Hömig-Hölzel C, Savola S. Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) in tumor diagnostics and prognostics. Diagn Mol Pathol
2012;21(4):189–206.
53. Warren JD, Xiong W, Bunker AM, et al. Septin 9 methylated DNA is a sensitive and specific blood test for colorectal cancer. BMC Med 2011;9:133.
54. Boland CR, Thibodeau SN, Hamilton SR, et al. A National Cancer Institute Workshop on Microsatellite Instability for cancer detection and familial
predisposition: development of international criteria for the determination
of microsatellite instability in colorectal cancer. Cancer Res 1998;58(22):
5248–5257.
55. Umar A, Boland CR, Terdiman JP, et al. Revised Bethesda Guidelines for
hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (Lynch syndrome) and microsatellite instability. J Natl Cancer Inst 2004;96(4):261–268.
56. Voelkerding KV, Dames SA, Durtschi JD. Next-generation sequencing: from
basic research to diagnostics. Clin Chem 2009;55(4):641–658.
57. Cronin M, Ross JS. Comprehensive next-generation cancer genome sequencing in the era of targeted therapy and personalized oncology. Biomarker
Med 2011;5(3):293–305.
58. Coonrod EM, Durtschi JD, Margraf RL, et al. Developing genome and
exome sequencing for candidate gene identification in inherited disorders:
an integrated technical and bioinformatics approach. Arch Pathol Lab Med
2013;137(3):415–433.
59. Grossmann V, Kohlmann A, Klein HU, et al. Targeted next-generation sequencing detects point mutations, insertions, deletions and balanced chromosomal rearrangements as well as identifies novel leukemia-specific fusion
genes in a single procedure. Leukemia 2011;25(4):671–680.
60. Marchetti A, Del Grammastro M, Filice G, et al. Complex mutations &
subpopulations of deletions at exon 19 of EGFR in NSCLC revealed by next
generation sequencing: potential clinical implications. PloS One 2012;7(7):
e42164.
61. McCourt CM, McArt DG, Mills K, et al. Validation of next generation sequencing technologies in comparison to current diagnostic gold standards for
BRAF, EGFR and KRAS mutational analysis. PloS One 2013;8(7):e69604.
62. Thol F, Kölking B, Damm F, et al. Next-generation sequencing for minimal
residual disease monitoring in acute myeloid leukemia patients with FLT3ITD or NPM1 mutations. Genes Chromosomes Cancer 2012;51(7):689–695.
63. Barski A, Cuddapah S, Cui K, et al. High-resolution profiling of histone
methylations in the human genome. Cell 2007;129(4):823–837.
64. Schones DE, Zhao K. Genome-wide approaches to studying chromatin
modifications. Nat Rev Genet 2008;9(3):179–191.
65. Ren B, Robert F, Wyrick JJ, et al. Genome-wide location and function of
DNA binding proteins. Science 2000;290(5500):2306–2309.
66. Robertson G, Hirst M, Bainbridge M, et al. Genome-wide profiles of STAT1
DNA association using chromatin immunoprecipitation and massively parallel sequencing. Nat Methods 2007;4(8):651–657.
67. Shinawi M, Cheung SW. The array CGH and its clinical applications. Drug
Discov Today 2008;13(17–18):760–770.
68. Iacobucci I, Lonetti A, Papayannidis C, Martinelli G. Use of single nucleotide polymorphism array technology to improve the identification of chromosomal lesions in leukemia. Curr Cancer Drug Targets 2013;13(7):791–810.
69. Ahmad A, Iqbal MA. Significance of genome-wide analysis of copy number
alterations and UPD in myelodysplastic syndromes using combined CGH SNP arrays. Curr Med Chem 2012;19(22):3739–3747.
70. Goncalves R, Bose R. Using multigene tests to select treatment for early-stage
breast cancer. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2013;11(2):174–182.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

P A R T

Etiology and
Epidemiology of
Cancer

I I

Section 1 Etiology of Cancer

4

Tobacco

Richard J. O’Connor

INTRODUCTION
Regrettably, tobacco use remains one of the leading causes of death
worldwide. It is projected to leave over 1 billion dead in the 21st century, after killing nearly 100 million during the course of the 20th
century.1 Data from the Global Adult Tobacco Survey (GATS),
which conducted representative household surveys in 14 low- and
middle-income countries (Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Egypt, India,
Mexico, Philippines, Poland, Russia, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine,
Uruguay, and Vietnam), suggest 41% of men and 5% of women
across these countries currently smoke.2 Compare this to approximately 24% of men and 16% of women in the United States.3 A
preponderance of the death and disease associated with tobacco use
is associated with its combusted forms, particularly the cigarette.
However, all forms of tobacco use have negative health consequences, the severity of which can vary among products. From the
introduction of the mass-manufactured, mass-marketed cigarette
(e.g., Camel in 1913), smoking rates grew, first among men then
among women, and peaked in Western countries in the 1960s to
1970s, before beginning a steady decline.4 The smoking rate among
US adults has dropped from its peak in 1965 of 42% to 19% in
2011.3 Per capita consumption has been dropping almost continuously since the 1960s, although the rate of decline has slowed since
the early 2000s.5 Among youth, smoking rates have been in decline
since the 1990s,6,7 although there is some evidence of growth in
use of other forms of tobacco (e.g., cigars, water pipes, electronic
cigarettes) in 2011 to 2012 that may be displacing cigarette use.8
Tobacco control policy interventions can impact both smoking prevalence and lung cancer incidence.9 For example, a recent
analysis suggests that implementation of graphic health warnings
in Canada in 1999 resulted in a significant reduction (up to 4.5
percentage points) in smoking prevalence over a decade.10 Increases in tobacco taxes have long been shown to reduce youth
smoking initiation and to prompt more attempts to quit smoking.11
Evidence from state comparisons in the United States suggests that
comprehensive tobacco control measures effectively implemented
(such as in California and Massachusetts) can reduce lung cancer
incidence.12 Indeed, Holford and colleagues13 have shown that
since the seminal 1964 Report of the Surgeon General, an estimated 157 million years of life (approximately 20 years per person)
have been saved by tobacco control activities in the United States
over 50 years. That is, tobacco control activities are estimated to
have averted 8 million premature deaths and extended mean life
span by 19 to 20 years.13 However, the marketing of cigarettes
has since shifted focus to the developing world, where smoking
rates are on the increase. In an attempt to head off an epidemic
of smoking and associated diseases, the World Health Organization initiated a public health treaty, the Framework Convention
on Tobacco Control (FCTC), to coordinate international efforts
to reduce tobacco use.14 The FCTC binds parties to enact measures to control the labeling and marketing of tobacco products,

create a framework for testing and regulating product contents
and emissions, combat smuggling and counterfeiting, and protect
nonsmokers from secondhand smoke.15 To date, the FCTC has
been ratified by more than 150 countries. The FCTC provides
governments the opportunity to regulate the marketing, labeling,
and contents/emissions of tobacco products, as well as control the
global trade in tobacco products. In the United States, which is
currently not a party to FCTC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has, since 2009, had authority to regulate tobacco
products and their marketing along similar lines.16

EPIDEMIOLOGY OF TOBACCO AND
CANCER
Linkages between tobacco use and cancers at various sites had
been noted for several decades. In the late 1800s, it was believed
that excessive cigar use created irritation that led to oral cancers.17
In the 1930s, German scientists began to establish links between
cigarette smoking and lung cancers.18 However, it was not until the
Doll and Hill19 and Wynder and Graham20 studies were published
that the association was demonstrated in large samples and welldesigned studies. Table 4.1 lists the cancers currently recognized
by the U.S. Surgeon General as caused by smoking, along with
their corresponding estimated mortality statistics.21–23 Of these, the
most well-publicized link is between smoking and lung cancer. In
a recent examination of National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) data, Jha24 showed a hazard ratio for lung
cancer in smokers versus nonsmokers of 17.8 in women and 14.6 in
men. However, smoking contributes substantially to overall cancer
burden across multiple sites, including the oropharynx, cervix, and
pancreas. Hazard ratios of 1.7 for women and 2.2 for men are seen
for cancers other than in the lung in smokers versus nonsmokers.24
Emerging evidence also links smoking with breast cancer, although
the data are as yet insufficient to make causal conclusions.23,25 Cancer risks associated with smoking, as well as outcomes and survival,
depend on a number of factors. A common index of cancer risk is
pack-years, or the number of packs of cigarettes smoked per day
multiplied by the number of years smoked in the lifetime. In general, the higher the number of pack-years, the greater the cancer
risk. Risks for lung cancer decline with smoking cessation, and the
longer a former smoker remains off of cigarettes, the more the risk
declines.26 However, excepting those smokers who quit with relatively few pack years accumulated (typically before age 40), cancer
risk rarely approaches that of a never smoker.24,27
A recent study using several large cohort studies examined
death rates and the relative risks associated with smoking and smoking cessation for 3 epochs (1959 to 1965, 1982 to 1988, and 2000
to 2010).27 Of most interest here is death from lung cancer. For
men, the age-adjusted death rate from lung cancer increased from
1959 through 1965 to 1982 through1988, but then fell for 2000

62
tahir99 - UnitedVRG

TA B L E 4 . 1
Level of Evidence for Smoking-Attributable Cancers
According to the United States Office of the
Surgeon General by Cancer Site and Yearly SmokingAttributable Mortality at Sites with Available
Estimates, United States, 2004

Cancer Site
Evidence Sufficient
to Infer Causal
Relationship

Evidence Suggestive
but Not Sufficient
to Infer Causal
Relationship

Bladder
Cervix
Colon and rectum
Esophagus
Kidney
Larynx
Leukemia (AML)
Liver
Lung
Oral cavity and
pharynx
Pancreas
Stomach

Yearly SmokingAttributable
Mortality
4,983
447
N/A
8,592
3,043
3,009
1,192
N/A
125,522
4,893
6,683
2,484

Breast

Inadequate to Infer
Ovary
Presence or Absence of
Causal Relationship
Evidence Sufficient
to Infer No Causal
Relationship

Prostate

N/A, not available; AML, acute myeloid leukemia.

through 2010; for women, the age-adjusted death rate continued
to rise over time, with the biggest increase between 1982 through
1988 to 2000 through 2010.27 In relative risk terms, the likelihood
of dying from lung cancer given current smoking has increased
from 2.73 to 12.65 to 25.66 among women, and 12.22 to 23.81 to
24.97 for men. Equivalent risks for former smokers increased from
1.3 to 3.85 to 6.7 among women, versus 3.48 to 7.41 to 6.75 for
men. These and other analyses suggest that the cancer risks from
smoking may have increased with time.27,28 The histologic subtypes of lung cancer seen in the US population have also shifted
with time. Into the early 1980s, squamous cell carcinomas (SCC)
were the most common manifestations of lung cancer. However, a
rapid rise in adenocarcinomas has been noted, and by the 1990s,
had overtaken SCC as the leading type of lung cancer.23

Tobacco Use Behaviors
The level of tobacco exposure is ultimately driven by use behaviors, including the number of cigarettes smoked, the patterns
of smoking on individual cigarettes, and the number of years
smoked. The primary driver of smoking behavior is nicotine—the
major addictive substance and primary reinforcer of continued
smoking.29–31 Over time, smokers learn an acceptable level of
nicotine intake that attains the beneficial effects they seek while
avoiding negative withdrawal symptoms. Smokers can affect the
amount of nicotine (and accompanying toxicants) they draw
from a cigarette by altering the number of puffs taken, puff size,

63

frequency, duration, and velocity (collectively referred to as smoking topography).32 Smokers tend to consume a relatively stable
number of cigarettes per day and to smoke those cigarettes in a
relatively consistent manner in order to maintain an acceptable
level of nicotine in their system across the day.33 The number of
cigarettes smoked per day and the smoking pattern of an individual may be influenced by the rate of nicotine metabolism.30
Nicotine is metabolized primarily to cotinine, which is further
metabolized to trans-3′-hydroxycotinine (3HC), catalyzed by the
liver cytochrome P450 2A6 enzyme.34 Functional polymorphisms
in the genes coding for these enzymes allow for the identification of fast metabolizers, who have more rapid nicotine clearance
and show greater cigarette intake and more intensive smoking
topography profiles relative to normal or slow metabolizers.35–37
The ratio of 3HC to cotinine in plasma or saliva can be used as a
reliable noninvasive phenotypic marker for CYP2A6 activity.38,39
CYP2A6 activity is known to vary across racial/ethnic groups, with
those of African or Asian descent showing slower metabolism
than those of Caucasian descent.40–42 Clinical trial data clearly
show that the metabolite ratio can be used to predict success in
quitting, and that the likelihood of quitting decreases as the ratio
increases, such that slower metabolizers are more successful at
achieving abstinence.37,41,43 Despite their addiction to nicotine,
most smokers in Western countries report that they regret ever
starting to smoke and want to quit smoking, and there is evidence
for similar regret in developing countries as well.44–46 However,
most smokers are unsuccessful in their attempts to quit smoking;
the most effective evidence-based treatments increase the odds
of quitting by 3 times, with 12-month cessation rates of approximately 40% relative to placebo.47

Evolution of Tobacco Products
Historically, tar was believed to be the main contributor to smoking-caused disease.48 It is important to note that tar is not a specific substance, but simply the collected particulate matter from
cigarette smoke, less water and nicotine (in technical reports, it
is often referred to as nicotine-free dry particulate matter). Soon
after the first studies were done showing that painting mice with
cigarette tar caused cancerous tumors, it was theorized that reducing tar yields of cigarettes might also reduce the disease burden
of smoking.48 Concurrently, cigarette manufacturers were seeking
to reassure their customers that their products were safe, that if
hazardous compounds were identified they would be removed,
and that product modifications could help to reduce risks.4,49–51
Indeed, in the United States and United Kingdom, average tar
levels of cigarettes dropped dramatically from the 1960s through
the 1990s, and have since leveled off.52,53 The European Union
took the tar reduction mentality to heart in crafting maximum
levels of tar in cigarettes that could be sold in member countries,
beginning at 15 mg in 1992, then dropping to 12 mg in 1998,
and 10 mg in 2005.54 Unfortunately, these reductions in tar yields
have not translated into changes in disease risks among smokers.55
Despite initial optimism about these products, both laboratorybased and epidemiologic studies indicate neither an individual,
nor a public health benefit from low-tar cigarettes as compared
to full-flavor varieties.56–58 The health consequences of mistakenly accepting the purported benefits of lower tar and nicotine
products have been significant. The increases in adenocarcinoma
of the lung observed in the United States over recent decades
may reflect changes made to the cigarette, such as filters, filter
ventilation, and tobacco-specific nitrosamines (TSNA) in smoke
produced by the relatively high amount of burley tobacco used
in the typical US cigarette blend.23,59 Tobacco manufacturers engineered cigarettes be elastic; that is, cigarettes allow smokers to
adjust their puffing patterns to regulate their intake of nicotine,
regardless of how the cigarette might perform under the standard

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chapter 4 Tobacco

64

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

testing conditions that drove the labeling and advertising of the
products.55 Researchers have since come to determine that filter
vents are the main design feature the industry relied on in creating elastic products.54,55,60,61 Vents facilitate taking larger puffs
and also contribute to sensory perceptions, because they dilute
the smoke with air. 62 So, even with a larger puff, the same mass
of toxins can seem less harsh and irritating because it is diluted
by a proportionate amount of air, which may in turn underscore
smokers’ beliefs that they are smoking safer cigarettes.62–64 Other
smoke components (e.g., acetaldehyde, ammonia, minor tobacco
alkaloids) and aspects of cigarette engineering (e.g., menthol,
flavor additives) may further contribute to the addictiveness of
cigarettes.65
Since the 1980s, manufacturers have introduced products that
make more explicit claims about reduced health risks. Examples
of modified cigarettelike products include Premier (RJ Reynolds),
Eclipse (RJ Reynolds), Accord/Heatbar (Philip Morris), Omni
(Vector Tobacco), and Advance (Brown and Williamson).66 In the
2000s, as evidence of reduced lung cancer incidence and coincident increases in snus use in Sweden appeared,67,68 manufacturers
began to promote smokeless tobacco products as reduced harm
alternatives. Most recently, electronic cigarettes, which vaporize
a nicotine solution, have gained increasing popularity and generated concern among public health practitioners, particularly with
regard to effects on youth.8,69,70 In the United States, the FDA has
authority to authorize marketing claims about reduced risk, which
an Institute of Medicine panel concluded should be based on extensive testing of abuse liability, likely health effects, and effects on
the whole population.71

CARCINOGENS IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS
AND PROCESSES OF CANCER
DEVELOPMENT
Cigarette smoke has been identified as carcinogenic since the
1950s, and efforts have continued to identify specific carcinogens in
smoke and smokeless tobacco products. The International Agency
for Research on Cancer (IARC) has classified both cigarette smoke
and smokeless tobacco as Group 1 carcinogens.72,73 IARC has also
identified 72 measurable carcinogens in cigarette smoke where
evidence is sufficient to classify them as Group 1 (carcinogenic to
humans), 2A (probably carcinogenic to humans), or 2B (possibly
carcinogenic to humans).72 The IARC list, in addition to data from
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the National
Toxicology Program, and the National Institute for Occupational
Safety and Health (NIOSH), informed the FDA’s development of
a list of Harmful and Potentially Harmful Constituents (HPHC) in
tobacco and tobacco smoke, which manufacturers will be required
to report.74 Table 4.2 illustrates the carcinogens listed as HPHC
alongside their carcinogenicity classifications by IARC or the EPA.

Compounds of Particular Concern
Research groups have listed components of cigarette smoke theorized to impact health risk, often relying on carcinogenic potency
indices and relative concentrations in smoke.75,76 In these analyses, the N-nitrosamines, benzene, 1,3-butadiene, aromatic amines,
and cadmium often rank highly. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH), many of which are carcinogenic, consist of three or
more fused aromatic rings resulting from incomplete combustion
of organic (carbonaceous) materials, and are often found in coal
tar, soot, broiled foods, and automobile engine exhaust.77 A compound of particular concern in cigarette smoke historically has
been benzo(a)pyrene (BaP), which has substantial carcinogenic
activity and is considered carcinogenic to humans by the IARC.77
In addition to PAH, other hydrocarbons found in significant quantities in cigarette smoke include benzene (a long-established cause

of leukemia), 1,3-butadiene (a potent multiorgan carcinogen),
naphthalene, and styrene. Carbonyl compounds, such as formaldehyde and acetaldehyde, are found in copious amounts in
cigarette smoke, primarily coming from the combustion of sugars
and cellulose.78 However, there are numerous other noncigarette
exposures to these compounds, including endogenous formation during metabolism. Smoke contains a number of aromatic
amines, such as known bladder carcinogens 2-aminonaphthalene
and 4-aminobiphenyl, heterocyclic amines, and furans. Toxic
metals, including beryllium, cadmium, lead, and polonium-210,
are also present in cigarette smoke in measurable quantities,79,80
levels of which may depend in part on the region of the world
where the tobacco was grown.81 Much attention has been focused
on the N-nitrosamines, primarily because they are well-established
carcinogens.82–85 Nitrosamines form through reactions of nitrite
with amino groups. In tobacco, two compounds of concern are
4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK), which is
derived from nitrosation of nicotine, and N′-nitrosonornicotine
(NNN), which is derived from nitrosation of nornicotine. Both of
these compounds are tobacco specific. NNN and NNK primarily form during the curing process for tobacco, where the leaves
are dried through contact with combustion gases from heat (flue)
curing or microbial activity in air curing.78 NNK is known to be
a potent lung carcinogen, but also shows tumor induction activity in the nasal cavity, the pancreas, and the liver, whereas NNN
has been shown to induce tumors along the respiratory tract and
esophagus in various animal models. Because they are produced
in the curing process and transfer into smoke, rather than being
formed by combustion, it is possible to reduce nitrosamines by
changing curing and storage practices.78,86,87
Smokeless tobacco products, although they are not burned,
nonetheless contain substantial levels of carcinogens, most prominently the N-nitrosamines.73 Here, product type and composition
has an enormous effect on nitrosamine levels. For example, US
moist snuff has substantially higher levels than that sold in Sweden
(snus), whereas smokeless products available in India are often far
higher in nitrosamines.88 US smokeless products also can contain
PAH and carbonyl compounds, likely derived from fire curing the
constituent tobacco.89 Similar to cigarettes, smokeless products
would also contain toxic metals.79,80
Although tobacco is an exceedingly complex mixture, it is possible to use animal model and epidemiologic evidence to postulate
relationships between specific components and known tobaccoinduced cancers.90–92 There is strong evidence from multiple studies to suggest that PAH and N-nitrosamines are involved in lung
carcinogenesis. For example, PAH–DNA adducts are observed in
lung tissues, and p53 tumor suppressor mutations in lung tumors
resemble the damage created by PAH diol epoxide metabolites
in vitro.93–96 NNK appears to preferentially induce lung tumors
in the rat, regardless of the route of administration, and DNA–
nitrosamine adducts are detectable in lung tissues.97,98 Most importantly, nitrosamine metabolite levels measured in smokers
were prospectively related to the risk of lung cancer in cohort
studies, even adjusting for other indices of smoking exposure
(e.g., cotinine, pack-years).98–102 PAH and nitrosamines are also
likely to be implicated in cancers along the respiratory tract and
the cervix.103,104 Considerable evidence exist that aromatic amines
such as 4-aminobiphenyl and 2-naphthylamine are potent bladder
carcinogens, and smokers are known to be at an elevated risk of
bladder cancer, so these are presumed to be the primary causative
agents.105–107 Similarly, as benzene is a known cause of leukemia,
it is presumed that this is the link to leukemia observed in smokers.
Important to examining the role of various smoke components in cancer is the ability to measure the exposure of smokers
to these components. Biomarkers of exposure may also be crucial
for examining products for their potential to reduce health risks
associated with tobacco use.71,108,109 Validation of tobacco exposure biomarkers is threefold: method validation, validation with
respect to product use, and validation with respect to disease risk.71

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

65

Chapter 4 Tobacco

TA B L E 4 . 2
Carcinogens in Tobacco and Tobacco Smoke Identified as Harmful and Potentially Harmful by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration, with International Agency for Research on Cancer Carcinogenecity (IARC) Classifications as
of 2013
CAS No.

1,3-Butadiene

106-99-0

1

100F

2012

2-Aminonaphthalene

91-59-8

1

100F

2012

64091-91-4

1

100E

2012

92-67-1

1

100F

2012

4-(Methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK)
4-Aminobiphenyl

IARC Group

IARC Volume

Year

Aflatoxin B1

1162-65-8

1

100F

2012

Arsenic

7440-38-2

1

100C

2012
2012

Benzene

71-43-2

1

100F

Benzo[a]pyrene

50-32-8

1

100F

2012

Beryllium

7440-41-7

1

100C

2012

Cadmium

7440-43-9

1

100C

2012

Chromium (Hexavalent compounds)

18540-29-9

1

100C

2012

Ethylene oxide

75-21-8

1

100F

2012

Formaldehyde

50-00-0

1

100F

2012

16543-55-8

1

100E

2012

1

100C

2012

N-Nitrosonornicotine (NNN)
Nickel (compounds)
o-Toluidine

95-53-4

1

100F

2012

Polonium-210

7440-08-6

1

100D

2012

Uranium (235, 238 Isotopes)

7440-61-1

1

100D

2012

Vinyl chloride

75-01-4

1

100F

2012

Acrylamide

79-06-1

2A

60

1994

Cyclopenta[c,d]pyrene

27208-37-3

2A

92

2010

Dibenz[a,h]anthracene

53-70-3

2A

92

2010

Dibenzo[a,l]pyrene

191-30-0

2A

92

2010

Ethyl carbamate (urethane)

51-79-6

2A

96

2010

IQ (2-Amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline)

76180-96-6

2A

56

1993

N-Nitrosodiethylamine

55-18-5

2A

SUP 7

1987

N-Nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA)

62-75-9

2A

SUP 7

1987

2-Nitropropane

79-46-9

2B

71

1999

2,6-Dimethylaniline

87-62-7

2B

57

1993

5-Methylchrysene

3697-24-3

2B

92

2010

A-α-C (2-Amino-9H-pyrido[2,3-b]indole)

26148-68-5

2B

SUP 7

1987

75-07-0

2B

71

1999

Acetaldehyde
Acetamide

60-35-5

2B

71

1999

Acrylonitrile

107-13-1

2B

71

1999

Benz[a]anthracene

56-55-3

2B

92

2010

Benz[j]aceanthrylene

202-33-5

2B

92

2012

Benzo[b]fluoranthene

205-99-2

2B

92

2010

Benzo[b]furan

271-89-6

2B

63

1995

Benzo[c]phenanthrene

195-19-7

2B

92

2010

Benzo[k]fluoranthene

207-08-9

2B

92

2010

Caffeic acid

331-39-5

2B

56

1993

Catechol

120-80-9

2B

71

1999

Chrysene

218-01-9

2B

92

2010

Cobalt

7440-48-4

2B

52

1991
(continued)

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Compound

66

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

TA B L E 4 . 2
Carcinogens in Tobacco and Tobacco Smoke Identified as Harmful and Potentially Harmful by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration, with International Agency for Research on Cancer Carcinogenecity (IARC) Classifications as
of 2013 (continued)
Compound

CAS No.

IARC Group

IARC Volume

Year

Dibenzo[a,h]pyrene

189-64-0

2B

92

2010

Dibenzo[a,i]pyrene

189-55-9

2B

92

2010

Ethylbenzene

100-41-4

2B

77

2000

Furan

110-00-9

2B

63

1995

Glu-P-1 (2-Amino-6-methyldipyrido[1,2-a:3′,2′-d]imidazole)

67730-11-4

2B

SUP 7

1987

Glu-P-2 (2-Aminodipyrido[1,2-a:3′,2′-d]imidazole)

67730-10-3

2B

SUP 7

1987

Hydrazine

302-01-2

2B

71

1999

Indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene

193-39-5

2B

92

2010

Isoprene

78-79-5

2B

71

1999

Lead

7439-92-1

2B

SUP 7

1987

MeA-α-C (2-Amino-3-methyl)-9H-pyrido[2,3-b]indole)

68006-83-7

2B

SUP 7

1987

N-Nitrosodiethanolamine (NDELA)

1116-54-7

2B

77

2000

N-Nitrosomethylethylamine

10595-95-6

2B

SUP 7

1987

N-Nitrosomorpholine (NMOR)

59-89-2

2B

SUP 7

1987

N-Nitrosopiperidine (NPIP)

100-75-4

2B

SUP 7

1987

N-Nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR)

930-55-2

2B

SUP 7

1987

N-Nitrososarcosine (NSAR)

13256-22-9

2B

SUP 7

1987

Naphthalene

91-20-3

2B

82

2002

Nickel

7440-02-0

2B

49

1990

Nitrobenzene

98-95-3

2B

65

1996

Nitromethane

75-52-5

2B

77

2000

90-04-0

2B

73

1999

105650-23-5

2B

56

1993

o-Anisidine
PhIP (2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine)
Propylene oxide

75-56-9

2B

60

1994

Styrene

100-42-5

2B

82

2002

Trp-P-1 (3-Amino-1,4-dimethyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole)

62450-06-0

2B

SUP 7

1987

Trp-P-2 (3-Amino-1-Methyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole )

62450-07-1

2B

SUP 7

1987

Vinyl acetate

108-05-4

2B

63

1995

1-Aminonaphthalene

134-32-7

3

SUP 7

1987

Chromium

7440-47-3

3

49

1990

Crotonaldehyde

4170-30-3

3

63

1995

Dibenzo[a,e]pyrene

192-65-4

3

92

2010

Mercury

7439-97-6

3

58

1993

Quinoline

91-22-5

EPA Group B2

Cresols (o-, m-, and p-cresol)

1319-77-3

EPA Group C

Notes: Most recently published IARC monograph for each compound is listed.
Quinoline and cresols have not been evaluated by IARC, but have been evaluated by U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
IARC Groups: 1, Carcinogenic to humans; 2A, Probably carcinogenic to humans; 2B, Possibly carcinogenic to humans; 3, Not classifiable as to its carcinogenicity
to humans; http://monographs.iarc.fr/ENG/Classification/ClassificationsAlphaOrder.pdf
EPA Groups: B2, Likely to be carcinogenic in humans; C, Possible human carcinogen.
CAS No., Chemical Abstracts Service registry number. CAS Registry Number is a Registered Trademark of the American Chemical Society. EPA, Environmental
Protection Agency.
Quinoline: http://www.epa.gov/iris/subst/1004.htm
Cresols: http://www.epa.gov/iris/subst/0300.htm; http://www.epa.gov/iris/subst/0301.htm; http://www.epa.gov/iris/subst/0302.htm

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

67

Chapter 4 Tobacco

TA B L E 4 . 3

Biomarker

Tobacco Smoke Source

Matrices

Monohydroxy-30butenyl mercapturic acid (MHBMA)

1,3-butadiene

Urine

4-Aminobiphenyl-globin

4-aminobiphenyl

Blood

N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide (HPMA)

Acrolein

Urine

Carbamoylethylvaline

Acrylamide

Blood

Cyanoethylvaline

Acrylonitrile

Blood

S-phenylmercapturic acid (SPMA)

Benzene

Urine

Cd

Cadmium

Urine

3-hydroxypropyl mercapturic acid (HBMA)

Crotonaldehyde

Urine

2-hydroxyethyl mercapturic acid (HEMA)

Ethylene oxide

Urine

Nicotine equivalents (nicotine, cotinine, trans-3′-hydroxycotinine, and their
respective glucuronides)

Nicotine

Urine

Total 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanol (NNAL)
(NNAL + NNAL glucuronide)

NNK

Urine

Total NNN (NNN + NNN glucuronide)

NNN

Urine

1-Hydroxypyrene

Pyrene (representative of other PAH)

Urine

Adapted from Hecht SS, Yuan JM, Hatsukami D. Applying tobacco carcinogen and toxicant biomarkers in product regulation and cancer prevention.
Chem Res Toxicol 2010;23:1001–1008.

Validation with respect to product use means that levels of a given
biomarker differ substantially between users and nonusers, and
that biomarker levels decrease substantially when product use is
stopped. Validation with respect to disease risk implies that variation in biomarker levels in product users are predictive of variations
in disease outcomes. Over the last decade, the development of
modern high-throughput, high-resolution mass spectrometry has
allowed for the measurement of multiple metabolites of tobacco
carcinogens.110–113 Commonly used biomarkers of tobacco exposure are listed in Table 4.3.

How Tobacco Use Leads to Cancer
A recent U.S. Surgeon General’s report provides extensive detail
on the current state of knowledge of how smoking causes cancer.65
Therefore, only a brief overview is provided here. Hecht101,113–116
has argued for a major pathway by which tobacco use leads to cancer: carcinogen exposure leads to the formation of carcinogen–
DNA adducts, which then cause mutations that, if not repaired
or removed by apoptosis, will eventually give rise to cancer. It is
important to keep perspective that, whereas each cigarette may
contain seemingly low levels of a given carcinogen, smoking is, for
most people, a long-term addiction. Thus, a mixture of numerous
carcinogens is administered multiple times per day over the course
of decades. Further, compounds taken in during smokers can be
metabolically activated, thus increasing their activity. Cigarette
smoke compounds appear to induce the cytochrome P450 system,
which facilitates the metabolic activation of carcinogens to electrophilic entities that are able to covalently bind DNA.117,118 DNA
adducts appear to be crucial to the cancer process, and numerous
studies show that smoker tissues contain higher levels of DNA adducts than nonsmokers, and that DNA adduct levels are associated
with cancer risk.119,120 At the same time, other systems are involved
in the detoxification and deactivation of smoke constituents, typically catalyzed by UDP-glucuronosyltransferases and glutathioneS-transferases, resulting in excretion of inactive compounds.121,122
An individual’s balance of activation and deactivation of toxicants

may be an important predictor of cancer risk, although evidence
for this is mixed in the literature.123,124 Similarly, DNA repair capacity is an important consideration, because, even if adducts are
formed, processes exist to remove such perturbations to normalize
DNA structure. Enzymatic processes of DNA repair include alkytransferases, nucleotide excision, and mismatch repair. Polymorphisms in genes coding for these enzymes may relate to individual
cancer susceptibility. Table 4.4 outlines the metabolic activation/
detoxification, DNA-adduct formation, and repair processes believed to be involved for four tobacco carcinogens (nitrosamines,
PAH, benzene, 4-aminobiphenyl).65,120
Those DNA adducts that persist can cause miscoding during
DNA replication. Smoke carcinogens are known to cause G:A and
G:T mutations, and mutations in the KRAS oncogene and the P53
tumor suppressor gene are strongly associated with tobacco-caused
cancers.93,114,125–127 Inactivation of P53, together with the activation of KRAS, appear to reduce survival in non–small-cell lung
cancer.65 Gene mutations that do not result in apoptosis may go
on to influence a number of downstream processes, which may
lead to genomic instability, proliferation, and eventually, malignancy.128–130 Some smoke constituents may also act in ways that
indirectly support the development of cancer. Nicotine, although
not a carcinogen in itself, is known to reduce apoptosis and increase angiogenesis and transformation processes via nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB).65,131 Activation of nicotinic acetylcholine
receptors (nAChR) in lung epithelium by nicotine or NNK is associated with survival and proliferation of malignant cells.65 Nitrosamines also appear to have similar activities via the activation of
protein kinases A and B.132 NNK may bind β-adrenergic receptors
to stimulate the release of arachidonic acid, which is converted to
prostaglandin E2 by cyclooxygenase (COX)-2. Smoke compounds
appear to activate epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and
COX-2, both of which are found to be elevated in many cancers.133
Ciliatoxic, inflammatory, and oxidizing compounds, such as acrolein and ethylene oxide in smoke, may also impact the likelihood
of cancer development. Epigenetic changes such as hypermethylation, particularly at P16, may also play a role in lung cancer
development.65

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Commonly Used Biomarkers of Exposure to Carcinogens in Tobacco Smoke

68

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

TA B L E 4 . 4
Key Pathways and Processes Where Selected Smoke Constituents Are Activated and
Detoxified
NNN, NNK

PAH

Benzene

4-ABP

Metabolic Activation

Alpha hydroxylation

Diol epoxide formation

Epoxide/oxepin formation

N-oxidation

Cytochrome P450 Enzymes
Involved

2A6, 2A13, 2E1

1A1, 1B1

2E1

1A2

Enzymes Involved in
Detoxification/ Activation

UGT

MEH, GST, UGT

MEH, GST

UGT, NAT

O6-POB-deoxyguanosine

BPDE-N2deoxyguanosine

DNA Adduct Formation Sites
Lung
Bladder
DNA Repair Pathways

C-8 deoxyguanosine
AGT, BER

NER, MMR

BER, NER, NIR

NER

UGT, uridine-5′-diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferases; MEH, microsomal epoxide hydrolases; NAT, N-Acetyltransferases; GST, glutathione-S-transferases;
AGT, O6-alkylguanine–DNA alkyltransferase; BER, base excision repair; NER, nucleotide excision repair; MMR, mismatch repair; NIR, nucleotide incision repair.

S E L E C T E D
The full reference list can be accessed at lwwhealthlibrary.com/oncology.
1. World Health Organization, Research for International Tobacco Control. WHO Report on the Global Tobacco Epidemic, 2008: the MPOWER
Package. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2008.
2. Giovino GA, Mirza SA, Samet JM, et al. Tobacco use in 3 billion individuals from 16 countries: an analysis of nationally representative cross-sectional
household surveys. Lancet 2012;380:668–679.
9. Cummings KM, Fong GT, Borland R. Environmental influences on tobacco
use: evidence from societal and community influences on tobacco use and
dependence. Annu Rev Clin Psychol 2009;5:433–458.
10. Huang J, Chaloupka FJ, Fong GT. Cigarette graphic warning labels and
smoking prevalence in Canada: a critical examination and reformulation of
the FDA regulatory impact analysis. Tob Control 2014;1:i7–i12.
15. Liberman J. Four COPs and counting: achievements, underachievements
and looming challenges in the early life of the WHO FCTC Conference of
the Parties. Tob Control 2012;21:215–220.
21. US Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences
of Smoking: A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta: Department of Health
and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National
Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on
Smoking and Health; 2004.
23. US Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences
of Smoking—50 Years of Progress. A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta:
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and
Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health; 2014.
24. Jha P, Ramasundarahettige C, Landsman V, et al. 21st-century hazards
of smoking and benefits of cessation in the United States. N Engl J Med
2013;368:341–350.
26. Peto R, Darby S, Deo H, et al. Smoking, smoking cessation, and lung cancer
in the UK since 1950: combination of national statistics with two case-control
studies. BMJ 2000;321:323–329.
27. Thun MJ, Carter BD, Feskanich D, et al. 50-year trends in smoking-related
mortality in the United States. N Engl J Med 2013;368:351–364.
30. Benowitz NL. Pharmacology of nicotine: addiction, smoking-induced disease, and therapeutics. Annu Rev Pharmacol Toxicol 2009;49:57–71.
34. Benowitz NL, Hukkanen J, Jacob P. Nicotine chemistry, metabolism, kinetics and biomarkers. Handb Exp Pharmacol 2009:29–60.
40. Benowitz NL, Dains KM, Dempsey D, et al. Racial differences in the relationship between number of cigarettes smoked and nicotine and carcinogen
exposure. Nicotine Tob Res 2011;13:772–783.
41. Dempsey DA, St Helen G, Jacob P, et al. Genetic and pharmacokinetic determinants of response to transdermal nicotine in white, black, and asian
nonsmokers. Clin Pharmacol Ther 2013;94:687–694.
42. Zhu AZ, Renner CC, Hatsukami DK, et al. The ability of plasma cotinine
to predict nicotine and carcinogen exposure is altered by differences in CYP2A6: the influence of genetics, race, and sex. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers
Prev 2013;22:708–718.
44. Fong GT, Hammond D, Laux FL, et al. The near-universal experience
of regret among smokers in four countries: findings from the International Tobacco Control Policy Evaluation Survey. Nicotine Tob Res 2004;
6:S341–S351.

R E F E R E N C E S
47. Tobacco Use and Dependence Guideline Panel. Treating Tobacco Use and
Dependence: 2008 Update. Rockville, MD: U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services; 2008.
55. National Cancer Institute. Risks Associated with Smoking Cigarettes with Low
Machine-Measured Yields of Tar and Nicotine. Bethesda, MD: The Institute; 2001.
56. Harris JE, Thun MJ, Mondul AM, et al. Cigarette tar yields in relation to
mortality from lung cancer in the cancer prevention study II prospective
cohort, 1982-8. BMJ 2004;328:72.
59. Burns DM, Anderson CM, Gray N. Do changes in cigarette design influence
the rise in adenocarcinoma of the lung? Cancer Causes Control 2011;22:13–22.
62. Kozlowski LT, O’Connor RJ. Cigarette filter ventilation is a defective design
because of misleading taste, bigger puffs, and blocked vents. Tob Control
2002;11:I40–I50.
65. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health.
How Tobacco Smoke Causes Disease: The Biology and Behavioral Basis for
Smoking-Attributable Disease: A Report of the Surgeon General. Rockville,
MD: Centers for Disease Control and Prevetion; 2010.
66. Stratton KR. Clearing the Smoke: Assessing the Science Base for Tobacco
Harm Reduction. Washington, DC: Institute of Medicine, National Academy
Press; 2001.
70. Schaller K, Ruppert L, Kahnert S, et al. Electronic Cigarettes – An Overview.
Heidelberg: German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ); 2013. http://www
.dkfz.de/en/presse/download/RS-Vol19-E-Cigarettes-EN.pdf
71. Institute of Medicine. Scientific Standards for Studies on Modified Risk
Tobacco Products. Washington, DC: National Academies Press; 2012.
72. International Agency for Research on Cancer. Tobacco Smoke and
Involuntary Smoking. Vol 83. Lyon: International Agency for Research on
Cancer, World Health Organization; 2004.
74. Center for Tobacco Products. Reporting Harmful and Potentially Harmful
Constituents in Tobacco Products and Tobacco Smoke Under Section 904(a)
(3) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Rockville, MD: Department
of Health and Human Services; 2012.
83. Hecht SS. Biochemistry, biology, and carcinogenicity of tobacco-specific
N-nitrosamines. Chem Res Toxicol 1998;11:559–603.
84. Hoffmann D, Rivenson A, Hecht SS. The biological significance of tobaccospecific N-nitrosamines: smoking and adenocarcinoma of the lung. Crit Rev
Toxicol 1996;26:199–211.
91. Hoffmann D, Stepanov I, Hecht SS, et al. Tobacco Carcinogenesis. New
York: Academic Press; 1978.
93. Pfeiffer GP, Denissenko MF, Olivier M, et al. Tobacco smoke carcinogens,
DNA damage and p53 mutations in smoking-associated cancers. Oncogene
2002;21:7435–7451.
113. Hecht SS, Yuan JM, Hatsukami D. Applying tobacco carcinogen and toxicant biomarkers in product regulation and cancer prevention. Chem Res
Toxicol 2010;23:1001–1008.
116. Hecht SS. Lung carcinogenesis by tobacco smoke. Int J Cancer 2012;131:
2724–2732.
120. Hang B. Formation and repair of tobacco carcinogen-derived bulky DNA
adducts. J Nucleic Acids 2010;2010:709521.
125. Ahrendt SA, Decker PA, Alawi EA, et al. Cigarette smoking is strongly associated with mutation of the K-ras gene in patients with primary adenocarcinoma of the lung. Cancer 2001;92:1525–1530.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

5

Oncogenic Viruses

PRINCIPLES OF TUMOR VIROLOGY
Viral infections are estimated to play a causal role in at least 11%
of all new cancer diagnoses worldwide.1 A vast majority of cases
(>85%) occur in developing countries, where poor sanitation,
high rates of cocarcinogenic factors such as HIV/AIDS, and lack of
access to vaccines and cancer screening all contribute to increased
rates of virally induced cancers. Even in developed countries,
where effective countermeasures are widely available, cancers attributable to viral infection account for at least 4% of new cases.2,3
Viruses thought to cause various forms of human cancer come
from six distinct viral families with a range of physical characteristics (Table 5.1). All known human cancer viruses are capable of
establishing durable, long-term infections and cause cancer only
in a minority of persistently infected individuals. The low penetrance of cancer induction is consistent with the idea that a virus
capable of establishing a durable productive infection would not
benefit from inducing a disease that kills the host.4 The slow course
of cancer induction (typically over a course of many years after the
initial infection) suggests that viral infection alone is rarely sufficient to cause human malignancy and that virally induced cancers
arise only after additional oncogenic “hits” have had time to accumulate stochastically.
In broad terms, viruses can cause cancer through either
(or both) of two broad mechanisms: direct or indirect. Direct
mechanisms, in which the virus-infected cell ultimately becomes
malignant, are typically driven by the effects of viral oncogene
expression or through direct genotoxic effects of viral gene products. In most established examples of direct viral oncogenesis, the
cancerous cell remains “addicted” to viral oncogene expression for
ongoing growth and viability.
A common feature of DNA viruses that depend on host cell
DNA polymerases for replication (e.g., papillomaviruses, herpesviruses, and polyomaviruses) is the expression of viral gene products
that promote progression into the cell cycle. A typical mechanism
of direct oncogenic effects is through the inactivation of tumor
suppressor proteins, such as the guardian of the genome, p53,
and retinoblastoma protein (pRB). This effectively primes the cell
to express the host machinery necessary for replicating the viral
DNA. The study of tumor viruses has been instrumental in uncovering the existence and function of key tumor suppressor proteins,
as well as key cellular proto-oncogenes, such as Src and Myc.
In theory, viruses could cause cancer via direct hit-and-run
effects. In this model, viral gene products may serve to preserve
cellular viability and promote cell growth in the face of otherwise
proapoptotic genetic damage during the early phases of tumor
development. In principle, the precancerous cell might eventually accumulate enough additional genetic hits to allow for cell
growth and survival independent of viral oncogene expression.
This would allow for stochastic loss of viral nucleic acids from the
nascent tumor, perhaps giving a growth advantage due to the loss
of “foreign” viral antigens that might otherwise serve as targets
for immune-mediated clearance of the nascent tumor. Although
hit-and-run effects have been observed in animal models of virally

induced cancer,5 these effects are extremely difficult to address in
humans. Currently, there are no clearly established examples of
hit-and-run effects in human cancer.
In indirect oncogenic mechanisms, the cells that give rise to the
malignant tumor have never been infected by the virus. Instead,
the viral infection is thought to lead to cancer by attracting inflammatory immune responses that, in turn, lead to accelerated cycles
of tissue damage and regeneration of noninfected cells. In some
instances, virally infected cells may secrete paracrine signals that
drive the proliferation of uninfected cells. At a theoretical level,
it may be difficult to distinguish between indirect carcinogenesis
and hit-and-run direct carcinogenesis, because, in both cases, the
metastatic tumor may not contain any viral nucleic acids.
A variety of hunting approaches have been used to uncover
etiologic roles for viruses in human cancer. The first clues that
high-risk human papillomaviruses (HPVs), Epstein-Barr virus
(EBV), Kaposi’s sarcoma–associated herpesvirus (KSHV), and
Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV) might be carcinogenic were
based on the detection of virions, viral DNA, or viral RNA in the
tumors these viruses cause. A common feature of known virally
induced cancers is that they are more prevalent in immunosuppressed individuals, such as individuals suffering from HIV/AIDS
or patients on immunosuppressive therapy after organ transplantation. This is thought to reflect the lack of immunologic control
over the cancer-causing virus. Studies focused on AIDS-associated
cancers provided the first evidence for the carcinogenic potential
of KSHV and MCPyV. A theoretical limitation of this approach is
that some virally induced cancers may not occur at dramatically
elevated rates in all types of immunosuppressed subjects, particularly if the virus causes only a fraction of cases (e.g., HPV-induced
head and neck cancers). Fortunately, the unbiased analysis of
nucleic acid sequences found in tumors has become substantially
more tractable as deep-sequencing methods have continued to
fall in price. In the coming years, it should be increasingly possible to search for viral sequences without making the starting
assumption that all virally induced tumors are associated with immunosuppression.6
One limitation of tumor sequencing approaches is that they
might miss undiscovered divergent viral species within viral families known to have extensive sequence diversity7 and could miss
viral families that have not yet been discovered.8 Tumor-sequencing approaches might also miss viruses that cause cancer by hitand-run or indirect mechanisms. It is conceivable that this caveat
could be addressed by focusing on sequencing early precancerous
lesions thought to ultimately give rise to metastatic cancer.
An additional successful approach to hunting cancer viruses
involves showing that individuals who are infected with a particular virus have an increased long-term risk of developing particular
forms of cancer. This approach was successful for identifying and
validating the carcinogenic roles of high-risk HPV types, hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), KSHV, and human
T-lymphotropic virus 1 (HTLV-1). Although viruses that are
extremely prevalent, such as EBV and MCPyV, are not amenable
to this approach per se, it may still be possible to draw connections

69

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Christopher B. Buck and Lee Ratner

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Orthopolyomavirus

Deltaretrovirus

Merkel cell polyomavirus
(MCPyV, MCV)

Human T-cell leukemia
virus (HTLV-1)
9 kb +RNA
(RT)

5 kb circular
dsDNA

170 kb
linear DNA

170 kb
linear DNA

10 kb
+RNA

3 kb ss/
dsDNA

8 kb circular
dsDNA

Viral
Genome

Enveloped

Nonenveloped

Enveloped

Enveloped

Enveloped

Enveloped

Nonenveloped

Virion

0.01%–6%

75%

2%–60%

90%

∼3%

2%–8%

>70%

Infection
Rate

T and B cells

Skin
(lymphocytes?)

Oral mucosa,
endothelium,
B cells

B cells,
pharyngeal
mucosa

Hepatocytes

Hepatocytes

Anogential
mucosa, oral
mucosa

Site of
Persistance

Same diseases, increased
incidence with AIDS

Increased incidence of same
diseases

Diseases in
Immunocompromised Hosts

Adult T-cell leukemia/
lymphoma, tropical spastic
paraparesis, myelopathy,
uveitis, dermatitis

Merkel cell carcinoma
(MCC)

Kaposi’s sarcoma (KS),
multicentric Castleman
disease (MCD)

Mononucleosis, Burkitt
lymphoma, other nonHodgkin lymphoma,
nasopharyngeal carcinoma

Unknown

Increased MCC incidence

Increased KS, MCD incidence,
primary effusion lymphoma

Increased incidence of same
diseases, lymphoproliferative
disease, other lymphomas, oral
hairy leukoplakia, leiomyosarcoma

Cirrhosis, hepatocellular
Same diseases, increased
carcinoma, splenic marginal incidence with AIDS
zone lymphoma

Cirrhosis, hepatocellular
carcinoma

Carcinomas of the cervix,
penis, anus, vagina, vulva,
tonsils, base of tongue

Diseases in Normal Hosts

2,100

1,500 (US)

43,000

110,000

220,000

380,000

610,000

Associated
Cancers

Note: Ranges for infection rates imply major variations in prevalence among populations in different world regions. Associated cancers indicates the annual number of new cases clearly attributable to viral infection.
An estimate for the worldwide incidence of Merkel cell carcinoma is not currently available and an estimate of the annual new cases in the United States alone is given instead.
ds, double-stranded; ss, single-stranded; HHV, human herpesvirus; RT, reverse transcriptase.
Adapted from de Martel C, Ferlay J, Franceschi S, et al. Global burden of cancers attributable to infections in 2008: a review and synthetic analysis. Lancet Oncol 2012;13(6):607–615; Schiller JT, Lowy DR. Virus infection
and human cancer: an overview. Recent Results Cancer Res 2014;193:1–10; Chen CJ, Hsu WL, Yang HI, et al. Epidemiology of virus infection and human cancer. Recent Results Cancer Res 2014;193:11–32; and Virgin HW,
Wherry EJ, Ahmed R. Redefining chronic viral infection. Cell 2009;138(1):30–50.

Gammaherpesvirinae

Flaviviridae

Hepatitis C virus (HCV)

Kaposi’s sarcoma
herpesvirus
(KSHV, HHV-8)

Hepadnaviridae

Hepatitis B virus (HBV)

Gammaherpesvirinae

Alphapapillomavirus

High-risk human
papillomavirus types
(e.g., HPV16)

Epstein-Barr virus
(EBV, HHV-4)

Taxon

Virus

Oncogenic Viruses

TA B L E 5 . 1

70
Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

Chapter 5 Oncogenic Viruses

PAPILLOMAVIRUSES
History
The idea that cancer of the uterine cervix might be linked to sexual
behavior was first proposed in the mid 19th century by Dominico
Rigoni-Stern, who observed that nuns rarely contracted cervical
cancer, whereas prostitutes suffered from cervical cancer more
often than the general populace.12 Another major milestone in
cervical cancer research was Georgios Papanikolaou’s development of the so-called Pap smear for early cytologic diagnosis of
precancerous cervical lesions.13 This form of screening, which allows for surgical intervention to remove precancerous lesions, has
saved many millions of lives in developed countries, where public
health campaigns have made testing widely available.
Although observations in the early 1980s suggested the possibility of a hit-and-run carcinogenic role for herpes simplex viruses
in cervical cancer,14 this hypothesis was abandoned in light of
studies led by Harald zur Hausen. Low-stringency hybridization
approaches revealed the presence of two previously unknown papillomavirus types, HPV16 and HPV18, in various cervical cancer
cell lines, including the famous HeLa cell line.15,16 There is now

overwhelming evidence that a group of more than a dozen sexually transmitted HPV types, including HPV16 and HPV18, play a
causal role in essentially all cases of cervical cancer. HPVs associated with a high risk of cancer also cause about half of all penile
cancers, 88% of anal cancers, 43% of vulvar cancers, 70% of vaginal cancers,2 and an increasing fraction of head and neck cancers
(see the following). In 2008, zur Hausen was awarded the Nobel
Prize for his groundbreaking work establishing the link between
HPVs and human cancer.
The viral family Papillomaviridae is named for the benign skin
warts (papillomas) that some members of the family cause. In the
early 1930s, Richard Edwin Shope and colleagues demonstrated
viral transmission of papillomas in a rabbit model system.17 Using
this system, Peyton Rous and others showed that cottontail rabbit papillomavirus-induced lesions can progress to malignant skin
cancer.18,19 This was the first demonstration of a cancer-causing
virus in mammals, building on Rous’ prior work demonstrating
a virus capable of causing cancer in chickens (the Rous sarcoma
retrovirus).

Tissue Tropism and Gene Functions
Although papillomaviruses can achieve infectious entry into a
wide variety of cell types in vitro and in vivo, the late phase of the
viral life cycle, during which the viral genome undergoes vegetative replication and the L1 and L2 capsid proteins are expressed, is
strictly dependent on host cell factors found only in differentiating
keratinocytes near the surface of the skin or mucosa. Interestingly,
a majority of HPV-induced cancers appear to arise primarily at
zones of transition between stratified squamous epithelia and the
single-layer (columnar) epithelia of the endocervix, the inner surface of the anus, and tonsillar crypts. It is thought that the mixed
phenotypic milieu in cells at squamocolumnar transition zones
may cause dysregulation of the normal coupling of the HPV life
cycle to keratinocyte differentiation.
There are nearly 200 known HPV types.20 In general, each papillomavirus type is a functionally distinct serotype, meaning that
serum antibodies that neutralize one HPV type do not robustly
neutralize other HPV types. Various HPV types preferentially
infect different skin or mucosal surfaces. Different types tend to
establish either transient infections that may be cleared over the
course of months, or stable infections where virions are chronically
shed from the infected skin surface for the lifetime of the host.
HPV infections may or may not be associated with the formation
of visible warts or other lesions. High-risk HPV types, with clearly
established causal links to human cancer, are preferentially tropic
for the anogenital mucosa and the oral mucosa, are usually transmitted by sexual contact, rarely cause visible warts, and usually
establish only transient infections in a great majority of exposed
individuals. The lifetime risk of sexual exposure to a high-risk HPV
type has been estimated to be >70%. Individuals who fail to clear
their infection with a high-risk HPV type and remain persistently
infected are at much greater risk of developing cancer. Polymerase
chain reaction (PCR)-based screening for the presence of high-risk
HPV types thus serves as a useful adjunct to, or even a replacement
for, the traditional Pap test.21
A consequence of the strict tissue-differentiation specificity of
the papillomavirus life cycle is that HPVs do not replicate in standard monolayer cell cultures. Papillomaviruses also seem to be
highly species restricted, and there are no known examples of an
HPV type capable of infecting animals.22 Thus, the investigation
of key details of papillomavirus biology has relied almost entirely
on modern recombinant DNA and molecular biologic analyses.
Papillomavirus genomes are roughly 8 kb, double-stranded,
closed-circular DNA molecules (essentially reminiscent of a plasmid). During the normal viral life cycle, the genome does not adopt
a linear form, does not integrate into the host cell chromosome, and
remains as an extrachromosomal episome or minichromosome.

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

between cancer risk and either unusually high serum antibody
titers against viral antigens or unusually high viral load. Relatively
high serologic titers reflect either comparatively poor control of the
viral infection in at-risk individuals or expression of viral antigens
in tumors or tumor precursor cells.9,10
The finding that a virus causes cancer is good news, in the
sense that it can suggest possible paths to clinical intervention.
These can include the development of vaccines or antiviral agents
that prevent, attenuate, or eradicate the viral infection and thereby
prevent cancer; the development of methods for early detection or
diagnosis of cancer based on assays for viral nucleic acids or gene
products; or the development of drugs or immunotherapeutics that
treat cancer by targeting viral gene products. Unfortunately, establishing the carcinogenicity of a given viral species is an arduous
process that must inevitably integrate multiple lines of evidence.11
The demonstration that the virus can transform cells in culture
and/or cause cancer in animal models provides circumstantial
evidence of the oncogenic potential of a virus. All known human
cancer viruses meet this criterion. However, it is important to recognize that viruses can theoretically coevolve to be noncarcinogenic in their native host (e.g., humans) and cause cancer only
in the dysregulated environment of a nonnative host animal. This
caveat may apply to human adenoviruses.
Finding that viral DNA is clonally integrated in a primary
tumor and its metastatic lesions helps address the caveat that the
virus might merely be a hitchhiker that finds the tumor cell a conducive environment in which to replicate (as opposed to playing
a causal carcinogenic role). This caveat is also addressed by the
observation that, in most instances, viruses found in tumors have
lost the ability to exit viral latency and are functionally unable to
produce new progeny virions. An unfortunate consequence of
this is that vaccines or antiviral agents that target virion proteins
(e.g., vaccines against high-risk HPVs or HBV) or gene products
expressed late in the viral life cycle (e.g., herpesvirus thymidine
kinase, which is the target of drugs such as ganciclovir) are rarely
effective for treating existing virally induced tumors.
Demonstrating that a vaccine or antiviral agent targeting the
virus either prevents or treats human cancer is by far the strongest
form of evidence that a given virus causes human cancer. This type
of proof has fully validated the causal role of HBV in human liver
cancer. Compelling clinical trial data also show that antiherpesvirus therapeutics can prevent KSHV- or EBV-associated lymphoproliferative disorders, and that vaccination against HPV can prevent
the development of precancerous lesions on the uterine cervix.

71

72

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

All the viral protein-coding sequences are arranged on one strand
of the genome. The expression of various proteins is regulated by
differential transcription and polyadenylation, as well as effects at
the level of RNA splicing, export from the nucleus, and translation.
In addition to the late half of the viral genome, which encodes
the L1 and L2 capsid proteins, all papillomaviruses encode six key
early region genes: E1, E2, E4, E5, E6, and E7.
The master transcriptional regulator E2 serves as a transcriptional repressor, and loss of E2 expression (typically through integration of the viral episome into the host cell DNA) results in the
upregulation of early gene expression. The most extensively studied early region proteins are the E6 and E7 oncogenes of HPV16
and HPV18. The E6 protein of high-risk HPV types triggers the
destruction of p53 by recruiting a host cell ubiquitin–protein ligase,
E6AP.23–25 Another important oncogenic function of E6 is the activation of cellular telomerase.26 A wide variety of additional high-risk
E6 activities that do not involve p53 have been identified.27
Most E7 proteins, including those of many low-risk HPV types,
contain a conserved LXCXE motif that mediates interaction with
pRB and the related “pocket” proteins p107 and p130.28 Interestingly, the LXCXE motif is present in a wide variety of other
oncogenes, most notably the T antigens of polyomaviruses and the
E1A oncogenes of adenoviruses. The interaction of E7 with pRB
disrupts the formation of a complex between pRB and E2F transcription factors, thereby blocking the ability of pRB to trigger cell
cycle arrest.29 The E7 proteins of high-risk HPVs can also contribute to chromosomal mis-segregation and aneuploidy, which may
in turn contribute to malignant progression.30 Like E6, E7 interacts with a wide variety of additional cellular targets, the spectrum
of which seems to vary with different HPV types.27
Some papillomavirus types express an E5 oncogene, which
functions as an agonist for cell surface growth factor receptors such
as platelet-derived growth factor beta (PDGF-β) and epidermal
growth factor (EGF) receptor.31 Because E5 expression is uncommon in cervical tumors, it is uncertain whether the protein plays a
key role in human cancer.

Human Papilloma Virus Vaccines
Two preventive vaccines against cancer-causing HPVs, trade
named Gardasil (Merck) and Cervarix (GSK), are currently marketed worldwide for the prevention of cervical cancer. Both vaccines contain recombinant L1 capsid proteins based on HPV16
and HPV18 that are assembled in vitro into virus-like particles
(VLPs). Together, HPV16 and HPV18 cause about 70% of all
cases of cervical cancer worldwide. Gardasil also includes VLPs
based on HPV types 6 and 11, which rarely cause cervical cancer but together cause about 90% of all genital warts. The VLPs
contained in the vaccines are highly immunogenic in humans,
eliciting high-titer serum antibody responses against L1 that are
capable of neutralizing the infectivity of the cognate HPV types
represented in the vaccine. It appears that the current HPV vaccines may confer lifelong immunity against new infection with the
HPV types represented in the vaccine.32 The vaccines elicit lower
titer cross-neutralizing responses against a subset of cancer-causing HPV types that are closely related to HPV16 and HPV18.33
Although these cross-neutralizing responses can at least partially
protect vaccinees against a new infection with additional high-risk
types, such as HPV31 and HPV45, it remains unclear how durable
the lower level cross-protection will be.33
Because L1 is not expressed in latently infected keratinocyte stem
cells residing on the epithelial basement membrane, current HPV
vaccines are very unlikely to eradicate existing infections.34,35 Like
keratinocyte stem cells, cervical cancers and precursor lesions rarely
or never express L1. Thus, the existing L1-based vaccines seem unlikely to serve as therapeutic agents for treating cervical cancer.
Three types of next-generation HPV vaccines are currently in
human clinical trials. Merck has recently announced that a newer

version of Gardasil, which contains VLPs based on a total of nine
different HPV types, remained highly effective against HPV16 and
HPV18 and also prevented 97% of precancerous cervical lesions
caused by a wider variety of high-risk HPV types.36 Another class
of second-generation vaccines targets the papillomavirus minor
capsid protein L2. An N-terminal portion of L2 appears to represent a highly conserved “Achilles’ heel”, which contains conserved
protein motifs required for key steps of the infectious entry process.37 Anti-L2 antibodies can neutralize a broad range of different
human and animal HPV types, and thus, L2 vaccines are hoped
to offer protection against all HPVs that cause cervical cancer,
all low-risk HPV types that cause abnormal Pap smear results, as
well as the full range of HPV types that cause skin warts. Finally,
a wide variety of vaccines that seek to elicit cell-mediated immune
responses against the E6 and E7 oncoproteins are aimed at a therapeutic intervention for the treatment of cervical cancer.38

Oropharyngeal Cancer
It is well established that tobacco products and alcohol cause head
and neck cancer. In the late 1990s, Maura Gillison and colleagues
noted a surprising number of new cases of tonsillar cancer in nonsmokers.39 Many of the tumors found in nonsmokers were found
to have wild-type p53 genes, raising the possibility that the tumor
might be dependent on a p53-suppressing viral oncogene (as seen
in cervical cancer). Gillison and colleagues went on to show that
nearly half of all tonsillar cancers contain HPV DNA, most commonly HPV16. Interestingly, HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancers tend to be less lethal than tobacco-associated HPV-negative
tumors. This finding has important implications for treatment of
HPV-positive head and neck cancers.40
Although the incidence of tobacco-associated head and neck
cancer has been declining in recent decades due to decreased
tobacco use, recent studies suggest an ongoing increase in the incidence of HPV-associated cancers of the tonsils and the base of
the tongue. By 2025, the number of new HPV-induced head and
neck cancer cases in the United States is expected to roughly equal
the number of new cervical cancer cases.39 Based in part on these
observations, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
recommends that boys, in addition to girls, should be vaccinated
against high-risk HPVs.

Nonmelanoma Skin Cancer
Epidermodysplasia verruciformis (EV) is a rare immunodeficiency that is characterized by the appearance of numerous flat,
wartlike lesions across wide areas of skin. The lesions typically
contain genus betapapillomaviruses, such as HPV5 or HPV8.
EV patients frequently develop squamous cell carcinomas (SCC)
in sun-exposed skin areas (suggesting that ultraviolet [UV] light
exposure is a cofactor). It is also well established that other immunosuppressed individuals, such as organ transplant recipients
and HIV-infected individuals, are at increased risk of developing
SCC.41,42 Although the E6 and E7 proteins of betapapillomaviruses appear to exert a different spectrum of effects than the E6
and E7 proteins of HPV types associated with cervical cancer,43–45
Betapapillomavirus oncogenes can transform cells in vitro.46 Although these circumstantial lines of evidence suggest that infectious agents, such as Betapapillomaviruses, might play a causal
role in SCC, recent deep sequencing studies have observed few or
no viral sequences in SCC tumors.47 Although the results argue
against durable direct oncogenic effects of any known viral species in SCC, an animal model system using bovine papillomavirus
type 4 strongly suggests that papillomaviruses can cause cancer
by hit and run mechanisms.5 Thus, the question of whether hitand-run or indirect oncogenic effects of HPVs may be at play in
human SCC remains open.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 5 Oncogenic Viruses

History
In the early 1950s, Ludwik Gross showed that a filterable infectious agent could cause salivary gland cancer in laboratory
mice.48 Later work by Bernice Eddy and Sarah Stewart showed
that the murine polyoma (Greek for “many tumors”) virus
caused many different types of cancer in experimentally infected
mice.49 The discovery that murine polyomavirus could be grown
in cell culture helped rekindle research interest in tumor virology and interest in the question of whether viruses might cause
human cancer.
Like papillomaviruses, polyomaviruses have a nonenveloped
capsid assembled from 72 pentamers of a single major capsid protein (VP1). Both viral families also carry circular dsDNA genomes.
These physical similarities initially led to the classification of both
groups into a single family, Papovaviridae. When sequencing studies ultimately revealed that polyomaviruses have a unique genome
organization (with early and late genes being arranged on opposing strands of the genome) and almost no sequence homology to
papillomaviruses, the two groups of viruses were divided into separate families.
In the early 1960s, Bernice Eddy, Maurice Hilleman, and Benjamin Sweet reported the discovery of simian vacuolating virus 40
(SV40), a previously unknown polyomavirus that was found as a
contaminant in vaccines against poliovirus.50,51 SV40 was derived
from the rhesus monkey kidney cells used to amplify poliovirus virions in culture.52 SV40 rapidly became an important model polyomavirus, and studies of its major and minor tumor antigens (large
T [LT]and small t [ST], respectively) have played an important
role in understanding various aspects of carcinogenesis. Despite
significant alarm about the possible risk SV40 might pose to exposed individuals, a comprehensive, decades long series of studies
have failed to uncover compelling evidence that SV40 exposure is
causally associated with human cancer.53
Two naturally human-tropic polyomaviruses, BK virus (BKV)
and John Cunningham virus (JCV), were first reported in backto-back publications in 1971.54,55 BKV and JCV are known to cause
kidney disease and a lethal brain disease called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, respectively, in immunosuppressed individuals. Although both viruses can cause cancer in experimentally
exposed animals, it remains unclear whether either virus plays a
causal role in human cancer. Although BKV LT expression can
frequently be observed in the inflammatory precursor lesions that

are thought to give rise to prostate cancer,56 there is no evidence
for the persistence of BKV DNA in malignant prostate tumors.57
There have been case studies finding BKV T-antigen expression
in bladder cancer,58 and some reports have indicated the presence
of JCV DNA in colorectal tumors. The long history of conflicting evidence concerning possible roles for BKV or JCV in human
cancer is reviewed elsewhere.59,60

Merkel Cell Polyomavirus
In 2008, Yuan Chang and Patrick Moore reported their lab’s discovery of the fifth known human polyomavirus species, which they
named Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCV or MCPyV) based on its
presence in Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC).61 The discovery used
an RNA deep sequencing approach called digital transcriptome
subtraction. Using classic Southern blotting, this report demonstrated the clonal integration of MCPyV in an MCC tumor and
its distant metastases. Many other labs worldwide have independently confirmed the presence of MCPyV DNA in about 80% of
MCC tumors.11
MCC is a rare but highly lethal form of cancer that typically
presents as a fast-growing lesion on sun-exposed skin surfaces
(Fig. 5.1).62 The risk of MCC is dramatically higher in HIV/AIDS
patients, offering an initial clue that MCC might be a virally induced cancer.63 Although MCC tumors express neuroendocrine
markers associated with sensory Merkel cells of the epidermis,
one recent report has shown that some MCC tumors also express
B-cell markers, including rearranged antibody loci.64 Currently,
there is no clear evidence for the involvement of MCPyV in other
tumors with neuroendocrine features.
In 2012, the International Agency for Research on Cancer
(IARC) concluded that MCPyV is a class 2A carcinogen (probably carcinogenic to humans).10,53 It should be noted that IARC
evaluations rely heavily on animal carcinogenicity studies, and
the 2A designation was assigned prior to a recent report showing that MCV-positive MCC lines are tumorigenic in a mouse
model system.65
A great majority of healthy adults have serum antibodies specific for the MCPyV major capsid protein VP1. A majority also
shed MCPyV virions from apparently healthy skin surfaces, and
there is a strong correlation between individual subjects’ serologic
titer against VP1 and the amount of MCPyV DNA they shed.66–68
Interestingly, MCC patients tend to have exceptionally strong
serologic titers against VP1.69 MCC tumors do not express detectable amounts of VP1, so this is unlikely to reflect direct exposure to

Figure 5.1 Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC). The left panel shows an MCC tumor on the calf. The right panel shows an MCC tumor on the finger.
Photographs provided with permission by Dr. Paul Nghiem (University of Washington, www.merkelcell.org).

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

POLYOMAVIRUSES

73

74

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

the tumor and instead likely represents a history of a high MCPyV
load in MCC patients. A recent study of archived serum samples
shows that unusually high serologic titers against MCPyV VP1
often precede the development of MCC by many years.70
Like the LT protein of SV40 (and the E7 proteins of high-risk
HPVs), an N-terminal portion of the MCPyV LT protein contains
an LXCXE motif that mediates inactivation of pRB function. In
contrast to SV40 LT, which carries a p53-inactivation domain
that overlaps the C-terminal helicase domain, MCPyV LT does
not appear to inactivate p53 function.71 Instead, the MCPyV LT
helicase domain activates DNA damage responses and induces
cell cycle arrest in cultured cell lines.72 This may explain why the
LT genes found in MCC tumors essentially always carry mutations that truncate LT upstream of the helicase domain. siRNA
experiments indicate that most (although possibly not all) MCC
tumors are “addicted” to the expression of MCPyV T antigens.73–75
Interestingly, patients with higher levels of MCPyV DNA in their
tumors, stronger T-antigen expression, and tumors that have been
infiltrated by CD8+ T cells appear to have better prognoses.76
This is consistent with the idea that cell-mediated immunity can
help clear MCC tumors that express MCPyV antigens.
Recent work has shown that the pRB interacting domain of
LT mediates increased expression of the cellular gene survivin.
The knockdown of survivin using siRNAs results in MCC tumor
cell death and YM155, a small molecule inhibitor of survivin
expression, protects mice from MCC tumors in a xenograft challenge system.77,78
In contrast to SV40, where LT appears to be the dominant
oncogene, the MCPyV ST protein appears to play a key role in
cell transformation. In addition to modifying the signaling functions of the cellular proto-oncogene PP2A, ST triggers the phosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding
protein 1.79 This results in dysregulation of cap-dependent translation and cellular transformation.
Although there is an intriguing epidemiologic correlation
between MCC and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL),80 there
are conflicting reports concerning the presence of MCPyV in
CLL and other lymphocytic cancers.81–83

Other Human Polyomaviruses
In recent years, the number of known human polyomaviruses has
expanded dramatically. Of the 12 currently known HPyV species,
only MCPyV has been clearly linked to human cancer. One new
HPyV, trichodysplasia spinulosa polyomavirus (TSV or TSPyV)
has been found in association with abnormal spiny growths on the
facial skin of a small number of immunocompromised individuals.

EPSTEIN-BARR VIRUS
History
In 1958, Denis Burkitt provided the first clear clinical description of an unusual B-cell–derived tumor that frequently affects
the jawbones of children in equatorial Africa.84 After hearing
Burkitt give a 1961 lecture entitled “The Commonest Children’s
Cancer in Tropical Africa – A Hitherto Unrecognized Syndrome,”
Michael Epstein became interested in the idea that an insect
vector-borne infection might account for the high incidence of
Burkitt lymphoma in tropical Africa. Epstein, together with then
PhD candidate Yvonne Barr, began examining tumor samples sent
to them by Burkitt. Electron micrographs of lymphoid cells that
grew out of the tumors in culture revealed viral particles with a
morphology strikingly similar to herpes simplex viruses.85 It was
soon shown that Epstein-Barr herpesvirus (EBV, later designated
human herpesvirus 4 [HHV-4]) can transform cultured B cells and
is the agent responsible for infectious mononucleosis.86–88

Although the initial conjecture that tropically endemic Burkitt
lymphoma depends on a geographically restricted infectious
agent ultimately proved correct, it was quickly established that the
EBV infection is not restricted to the tropics. It instead appears
likely that the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum is a key
geographically restricted cocarcinogen responsible for endemic
Burkitt lymphoma.53 In areas where children suffer repeated malaria infections, it appears that the parasite triggers abnormal B-cell
responses, as well as weakened cell-mediated immune function,
and these effects of recurring malaria infection in turn promote or
allow the development of EBV-induced Burkitt tumors.11

Epstein-Barr Virus Life Cycle
EBV chronically infects nearly all humans. In a great majority
of individuals, the infection is initially established in early childhood and is never associated with any noticeable symptoms. The
infection is typically transmitted when virions, shed in the saliva
of a chronically infected individual, come in contact with the oropharyngeal epithelium of a naïve individual. Although infected
epithelial cells, such as keratinocytes, might serve to amplify the
virus in some circumstances,89 the establishment of chronic infection is ultimately dependent on mature B cells, as subjects with
X-linked agammaglobulinemia (who lack mature B cells) appear
to be immune to stable EBV infection.90 Individuals who escape
infection during childhood and instead first become infected
during adolescence or adulthood often develop mononucleosis,
which is associated with fevers and extreme fatigue lasting for
weeks or sometimes months. Interestingly, late-infected individuals who experience mononucleosis and high EBV viral load are at
increased risk of developing EBV-positive Hodgkin lymphoma.91
EBV-infected B cells can either go on to produce new virions,
which are typically associated with cell lysis, or the virus can enter
a nonproductive state known as latency. Viral latency is defined as
a condition in which the virus expresses few (or possibly no) gene
products but can, under some conditions, “reawaken” to express the
full range of viral gene products and produce new progeny virions.
Latently infected cells are highly resistant to immune clearance.
There are three recognized forms of EBV latency. In latency I,
EBV nuclear antigen-1 (EBNA1), which is required for the stable
maintenance of the circularized viral DNA minichromosome, is
the only viral protein expressed. EBV-derived microRNAs (miRs)
may also be expressed. At the other end of the spectrum, latency
III is characterized by the expression of EBNA1–6, several latent
membrane proteins (LMP1, 2A, and 2B), two noncoding RNAs
(EBER1 and 2), the BCL-2 homolog BHRF1, BARF0, and multiple miRs. Although the initial discovery of EBV involved the visualization of virions, indicating that the virus had exited latency
and entered the productive lytic phase of the life cycle, viral gene
expression in EBV-induced cancers generally follows one of the
three latent patterns. The oncogenic activities of various EBV gene
products have recently been reviewed.87,88
In a great majority of healthy individuals, EBV exists almost
exclusively in a latent state, with the occasional asymptomatic
shedding of virions in the saliva. The infection is controlled, at
least in part, by CD8+ T cells specific for various latency proteins. EBV, like other herpesviruses, expresses a variety of proteins
that interfere with cell-mediated immune responses. Intriguingly,
results from mouse model systems suggest that the chronic immunostimulatory effects of persistent gammaherpesvirus emergence
(or abortive emergence) from latency in healthy hosts can nonspecifically boost immunity to other infections.92

Lymphomas
In addition to endemic Burkitt lymphoma, EBV is often present
in sporadic cases of Burkitt lymphoma in individuals who have
not been exposed to malaria. Although nearly all cases of endemic

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 5 Oncogenic Viruses

Carcinomas
In Southern China, NPC affects 25 out of 100,000 people, accounting for 18% of all cancers in China as a whole.94 Most other
world regions have a 25- to 100-fold lower rate of NPC. EBV is
present in nearly all cases of NPC, both in endemic and nonendemic regions. Although there is support for the idea that dietary
intake of salted fish and other preserved foods is a factor in endemic NPC, it remains possible that genetic traits or as yet unidentified environmental cocarcinogenic factors may play a role
as well. Individuals with rising or relatively high IgA antibody responses to EBNA1, DNase, and/or EBV capsid antigens have a
dramatically increased risk of developing NPC, offering an early
detection method for at-risk individuals.87
EBV is also present in a small percentage (5% to 15%) of gastric
adenocarcinomas and over 90% of gastric lymphoepithelioma-like
carcinomas. In contrast to NPC, the prevalence of EBV-associated
gastric cancer is similar in all world regions. As with NPC, elevated
antibody responsiveness to EBV antigens may offer a method for
identifying individuals at greater risk of gastric cancer.

lymphoproliferative disorders.95 However, it is important to note
that thymidine kinase is only expressed in the lytic phase of the
viral life cycle, and drugs of this class are not generally effective for
treating existing tumors, presumably due to the fact that EBV gene
expression in tumors is typically of a latent type.
Although a recently developed vaccine targeting the EBV
gp350 virion surface antigen did not provide sterilizing immunity
to EBV infection, vaccinees did experience lower peak EBV viral
loads upon infection.96 Given the strong correlation between high
EBV loads and the development of EBV diseases, it is hoped that
the vaccine’s ability to merely blunt the acute infection may offer
significant protection against disease.
Most forms of EBV-associated lymphoid cancers express the
B-cell marker CD20, making rituximab (an anti-CD20 mAb) a
potentially effective adjunct therapy.97,98 An emerging treatment
approach that has recently entered clinical trials involves stimulating T cells ex vivo against peptides based on EBV antigens or
against autologous EBV-transformed B cells.

KAPOSI’S SARCOMA HERPESVIRUS
History and Epidemiology
In the late 19th century, Hungarian dermatologist Moritz Kaposi’s
described a relatively rare type of indolent pigmented skin sarcoma
affecting older men.99 Kaposi’s sarcoma (KS) was later found to
be more prevalent in the Mediterranean region and in eastern
portions of sub-Saharan Africa.100 An early clue to the emergence
of the HIV/AIDS pandemic in the early 1980s was a dramatic
increase in the incidence of highly aggressive forms of KS, particularly in gay men who were much younger than typical KS patients.
After the discovery of HIV, it was briefly hypothesized that HIV
might be a direct cause of KS. However, this hypothesis failed to
explain the existence of KS long prior to the HIV pandemic and
the low incidence of KS in individuals who became infected with
HIV via blood products. This latter observation was more easily
explained by the existence of a sexually transmitted cofactor other
than HIV.101
Using a subtractive DNA hybridization approach known as
representational difference analysis, Yuan Chang, Patrick Moore,
and colleagues discovered the presence of a previously unknown
herpesvirus in KS tumors.102 The newly founded field of research
rapidly established key lines of evidence supporting the conclusion that KSHV (later designated human herpesvirus-8 [HHV-8])
is a causal factor in KS.11
It is now clear that the rate of KSHV infection varies greatly
in different world regions.11,103 In North America and Western
Europe, KSHV seroprevalence in the general population ranges
from 1% to 7%. Seroprevalence among gay men in these regions
is substantially higher (25% to 60%), suggesting a possible link
to sexual transmission. KSHV infection is much more prevalent
in the general population in central and eastern Africa, where
seroprevalence ranges from 23% to 70%. In endemic areas, up to
15% of children are seropositive, suggesting either vertical transmission or transmission via nonsexual casual contact (presumably
via saliva). In endemic regions, KS is estimated to be the third most
common cancer among adults.104

Prevention and Treatment
The reduction of immunosuppression in response to increasing
EBV loads is a standard approach to preventing EBV diseases in
T-cell immunosuppressed individuals. Another approach to the
prevention of EBV disease relies on ganciclovir (or related antiherpesvirus drugs), which can trigger the death of cells that express
the EBV thymidine kinase gene. Pretreating at-risk individuals,
such as organ transplant recipients, with ganciclovir has been
shown to effectively prevent the development of EBV-induced

Kaposi’s Sarcoma-Associated Herpesvirus in
Kaposi’s Sarcoma
KS tumors are complex on a number of levels. In contrast to most
other forms of cancer, where it is often clear that a single cell
type has proliferated out of control, KS tumors are composed of
cells from multiple lineages (Fig. 5.2). KSHV-infected cells in
the tumor often have a spindle-shaped morphology. Interestingly,

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Burkitt’s lymphoma contain EBV DNA in the tumor (typically in
a latency I–like state), only about 20% of sporadic cases arising
in immunocompetent individuals contain EBV. Rates of Burkitt
lymphoma are elevated in HIV-infected individuals, and HIVassociated Burkitt lymphomas contain EBV in about 30% of cases.
A common hallmark of all types of Burkitt’s lymphomas is deregulation of the cellular Myc proto-oncogene. A classic mutation
involves chromosomal translocation of the Myc gene to the antibody heavy chain locus. Burkitt’s lymphoma tumors that lack
detectable EBV DNA tend to carry multiple additional mutations
in host cell genes, raising the possibility that an originally EBVpositive precursor cell ultimately accumulated mutations that
rendered it independent of viral genes.88,93
In addition to Burkitt lymphoma, EBV is associated, to varying extents, with a histologically diverse range of other lymphoid
cancers, including Hodgkin lymphoma, natural killer (NK)/T-cell
lymphoma, primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma,
and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. The incidence of these various
forms of lymphoma is significantly increased both in AIDS patients
as well as in iatrogenically and congenitally immunosuppressed individuals.88 In particular, the essentially universal presence of EBV
in CNS lymphomas in AIDS patients makes it possible to diagnose
the disease with a PCR test for EBV that, together with radiologic
findings, can obviate the need for a brain biopsy.
EBV is almost invariably associated with lymphoproliferative
disorders, such as plasmacytic hyperplasia and polymorphic B cell
hyperplasia, which are often observed in organ transplant recipients. These polyclonal lymphoproliferative responses can, in some
instances, progress to oligoclonal or monoclonal lymphomas of
various types. The occurrence of EBV-associated lymphoproliferative disease in immunosuppressed patients is generally heralded
by the increased detection of EBV DNA in the peripheral blood
and the oral cavity. This presumably reflects the failure of cellular
immune responses to drive the virus into full latency and perhaps
also a failure of cell-mediated immune responses targeting latencyassociated EBV gene products present in the nascent tumor.

75

76

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

A

B

C

D

Figure 5.2 Kaposi’s sarcoma (KS). (A) Photograph of the lower leg of an individual with severe, diffuse KS involving the lower leg. (B) Histology of the
skin. (C) Lung shows a mixture of spindle to epithelioid cells, with slitlike vascular spaces intermixed with red blood cells and red blood cell fragments.
(D) Immunohistochemical detection of KSHV LANA in the cutaneous tumor. Photographs provided with permission by Drs. Odey Ukpo and Ethel
Cesarman.

spindle cells do not exhibit a highly transformed phenotype and
tend to show relatively little chromosomal instability. In a culture, the cells are highly dependent on exogenous cytokines and
other factors present in the tumor microenvironment in vivo.
Although spindle cells express a number of markers of the endothelial lineage, it is uncertain whether they are derived from
mature endothelial cells, the early precursor cells that give rise
to smooth muscle and vascular endothelial cells, or cells of the
lymphatic endothelial lineage. KS tumors also contain infiltrating lymphocytes and monocytes, as well as aberrant neovascular
spaces lined with infected and uninfected endothelial cells. The
aberrant blood vessels in KS lesion vessels rupture easily and leak
red blood cells, giving KS tumors their classic dark red, brown, or
purple color.
The latency status of KSHV in KS tumors is also complex, with
the expression of gene products typical of latency (e.g., LANA) as
well as lytic-phase genes (e.g., RTA/ORF50). Some of these gene
products, such as the viral interleukin (IL)-6 homolog (vIL-6), trigger proliferation and secondary cytokine signaling in noninfected
cells within the tumor. The tumorigenic effects of individual
KSHV gene products have recently been reviewed.88,103 In contrast
to EBV, where tumorigenesis is driven by latency gene expression,
it appears that KS pathogenesis is often dependent on lytic phase
gene expression. This may explain why ganciclovir, which is not a
particularly effective treatment for EBV tumors, was found to prevent the formation of new KS lesions in HIV-positive patients.105
However, it should be noted that this outcome has more recently
proven difficult to reproduce.106 At present, there are no recommended preventive therapies for individuals at risk of KS, but this
is an area of active investigation.
There are a variety of possible explanations for the need for
lytic-phase KSHV gene expression during tumor development.
For example, infected spindle cells may lose the viral DNA during
cell division and require reinfection for ongoing tumorigenicity.
Alternatively, factors secreted by a small fraction of tumor cells
that enter the lytic phase may be required for tumorigenesis. An

important area of current research focus is the role of KSHV gene
products in the regulation of angiogenesis in KS lesions107 and several current trials are investigating inhibitors of angiogenic pathways for the treatment of KS.

Lymphoproliferative Disorders
KSHV causes two forms of B-cell proliferative disorder: multicentric Castleman disease (MCD) and primary effusion lymphoma
(PEL). Both diseases are most commonly found in association
with HIV infection. In HIV-infected individuals, MCD tumors
contain KSHV in nearly all cases, whereas in HIV-negative individuals, the tumor contains KSHV in only about 50% of cases.108
KSHV in MCD tumors exhibits periodic activation of lytic replication and the expression of lytic phase genes.109 The expression
of vIL-6 during disease flare-ups appears to play a role in MCD
pathogenesis, raising the possibility that tocilizumab (a mAb
therapeutic that targets the IL-6 receptor) may be of therapeutic
benefit.
PEL comprises about 4% of all HIV-associated non-Hodgkin
lymphomas.110 Typically, PEL tumors express markers of both
plasma cells (akin to multiple myeloma tumors) and immunoblasts (similar to some EBV-induced tumors). In AIDS patients,
essentially all PEL tumors are infected with KSHV and a great
majority are also coinfected with EBV.88 Although PEL is rare in
HIV-negative individuals, PEL tumors in such individuals contain
KSHV in about 50% of cases.
A common approach to the treatment of all KSHV-associated
diseases is the restoration of immune function, either through
antiretroviral therapy of HIV/AIDS or through a reduction of
immunosuppressive therapy. The general success of immune
reconstitution in many KSHV-associated diseases presumably involves an immune-mediated attack of cells expressing KSHV gene
products, particularly the many lytic-phase gene products the virus
can produce in various disease states.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 5 Oncogenic Viruses

The first oncogenic retroviruses were discovered by Ellerman
and Bang in 1908 and by Rous in 1911, but it was many years
before the significance of these findings was appreciated.111 One
reason the field was stymied was the failure to identify RNA forms
of the viral genome in infected cells. This led to the discovery of
the reverse transcriptase independently by Baltimore and Temin
in 1970. Another major development was the finding in 1976 of
viral oncogenes derived from cellular genes, with the identification by Varmus and Bishop of the first dominant oncogene, src.
With the discovery of IL-2 by Gallo in 1976, it became possible to
culture the first human retrovirus, HTLV-1, from a form of adult
T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL) that was first recognized by
Takatsuki and coworkers.112 These advances opened the door for
Montagnier and colleagues’ isolation of HIV-1 in 1983, a discovery
confirmed independently by Gallo and Levy. This breakthrough
led to the first licensed HIV test in 1985.
Retroviruses are positive single-strand RNA viruses that utilize
transcription of their RNA genome into a DNA intermediate
during virus replication.111 This accounts for their name, retroviruses, because this is opposite to the normal flow of eukaryotic
genetic information. They infect a wide range of vertebrate animal species and are distantly related to repetitive elements in the
human genome, known as retrotransposons. Retroviruses are also
related to hepadnaviruses, double-stranded DNA viruses, such as
hepatitis B virus, which also undergo a reverse transcription step
in their replication.
Retroviruses may be classified as endogenous or exogenous
depending on whether they appear in the genome of the host species. There are approximately 100,000 endogenous retroviral elements in the human genome, making up nearly 8% of the genetic
information, but their potential roles in disease are unclear.113
Retroviruses may also be classified as ecotropic, xenotropic, or polytropic depending on whether they infect cells of the same animal
species from which they are derived, infect cells of a different species, or both. Amphotropic retroviruses infect cells of the species of
origin without producing disease, but infect cells of other species
and may produce disease.
Retroviruses that produce disease after a long incubation period
are termed lentiviruses and include human, simian, feline, ovine,
caprine, and bovine immunodeficiency viruses. Another group of
retroviruses that are not clearly associated with disease are known
as spumaviruses and include human and simian foamy viruses.
HTLV-1, which is classified in the genus Delta, is the only retrovirus known to be oncogenic in humans. A member of the retroviral
genus Gamma identified in 2008, designated xenotropic murine
leukemia virus-related virus (XMRV), was thought to be associated
with human prostate cancer; however, more recent studies showed
XMRV to be a lab-derived artifact.114 A genus betaretrovirus related to the mouse mammary tumor virus has been suggested to be
associated with biliary cirrhosis, but this finding requires independent validation.115
Retroviruses producing tumors in animals or birds are designated transforming viruses and may be classified as acute or
chronic transforming retroviruses. Acute transforming retroviruses
have acquired a mutated cellular gene, termed oncogene, and induce cancer in an animal within a few weeks. Many dominant
acting proto-oncogenes in humans (e.g., ras, myc, and erbB), were
first identified as retroviral oncogenes.
Chronic transforming retroviruses integrate almost randomly
in the genome, but when integrated in the vicinity of specific
genes disrupt their regulation and induce cell proliferation or resistance to apoptosis. Chronic transforming retroviruses induce malignancy only after many weeks to months of infection. The use of
a murine leukemia virus vector for gene therapy in children with
a form of severe combined immune deficiency syndrome characterized by defective expression of the common gamma chain of
the IL-2 receptor resulted in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

This was found to be the result of persistent expression of the LIM
domain only 2 (LMO2) gene triggered by the nearby integration
of the retroviral vector.116
In addition to acute or chronic transformation mechanisms,
retroviruses can transform cells through direct effects on cell physiology mediated by structural or nonstructural viral proteins. Transforming genes of HTLV-1 are nonstructural viral proteins that
activate host cell signaling pathways.117 Because the oncogenic
effects of HTLV-1 transforming genes generally take many years to
cause cancer, the virus does not fit the precise definition of having
either an acute or a chronic oncogenic mechanism.
HIV-1 infection is also associated with a variety of malignancies, but only by indirect effects of suppressing immunity to oncogenic virus infections, such as gammaherpesviruses, high-risk
human papillomaviruses, and hepatitis viruses.

Human T-Cell Leukemia Virus Epidemiology
Four species of human T-cell leukemia virus have been identified.
HTLV-1 was identified in 1980 as the first human retrovirus associated with cancer, and it is the focus of the remainder of this section.118 HTLV-2 was discovered in 1982 and shares 70% genomic
homology with HTLV-1.119 HTLV-3 and -4 were sporadically isolated from individuals who had contact with monkeys.120 HTLV-2,
-3, and -4 do not appear to be associated with disease in humans.
HTLV-1 is present in 15 to 20 million individuals worldwide,
most commonly in the Caribbean Islands, South America, southern Japan, and parts of Australia, Melanesia, Africa, and Iran.121 In
the United States, Canada, and Europe, 0.01% to 0.03% of blood
donors are infected with HTLV-1. It is most commonly found in
individuals who emigrated from endemic regions or among African
Americans. HTLV-1 is transmitted sexually, by contaminated cellassociated blood products, or by breast-feeding.122 Only 2% to 5%
of HTLV-1–infected individuals develop disease, and ATLL only
occurs in individuals who acquired HTLV-1 by breast-feeding.

Human T-Cell Leukemia Virus
Molecular Biology
HTLV-1, like other retroviruses, encodes Gag, Protease, Pol, and
Envelope proteins.123 Gag proteins compose the inner nucleocapsid core of the virus. The Pol proteins include the reverse
transcriptase and integrase. The reverse transcriptase copies the
single-stranded viral RNA into double-stranded DNA, and it is inhibited by several nucleoside analogs, but not by the nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors approved for HIV-1.124 The
integrase is responsible for inserting the linear double-stranded
DNA product of reverse transcription into the host chromosomal
DNA. At least one integrase inhibitor, raltegravir, now approved
for HIV-1, is active against HTLV-1.125 Integration occurs throughout the human genome, but there is preference for integration into
transcriptionally active genomic regions.126 The viral protease proteolytically processes Gag, Protease, and Pol precursor proteins to
the mature individual proteins, but it is not affected by inhibitors
of HIV-1 protease. The envelope proteins include the transmembrane protein, which anchors the surface envelope protein on the
virion, which mediates binding to the viral receptor.127
The viral genome also encodes regulatory proteins, including
Tax and HTLV-1 bZIP factor (HBZ).117 Tax is a transcriptional
transactivator protein that functions as a coactivator to induce
members of the cAMP response element-binding protein/activating
transcription factor (CREB/ATF) family, nuclear factor kappa B
(NF-κB), and serum response factor (SRF) pathways. Tax activation of the CREB/ATF pathway is responsible for upregulation of
the viral promoter. Tax induction of NF-κB promotes cell proliferation and resistance to apoptosis. Tax also binds and activates cyclindependent kinases and inhibits cell cycle checkpoint proteins. Tax

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

ANIMAL AND HUMAN RETROVIRUSES

77

78

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

is important for tumor initiation, whereas HBZ may be important
in tumor maintenance.128
HTLV-1 preferentially immortalizes CD4+ T lymphocytes
and induces tumors in mice.129 Tax also promotes the leukemiainitiating activity of ATLL cells in mouse models.130 In immunodeficient mice reconstituted with human hematopoietic cells,
HTLV-1 causes CD4+ lymphomas.131

Clinical Characteristics and Treatment of
HTLV-Associated Malignancies
The diagnosis of HTLV-1 is based on serologic assays.132 HTLV-1 is
associated with various inflammatory disorders, including uveitis, polymyositits, pneumonitis, Sjögren syndrome, and myelopathy. Infected
patients are susceptible to certain infectious disorders (e.g. staphylococcal dermatitis) and opportunistic infections such as pneumocystis
pneumonia, disseminated cryptococcosis, strongyloidiasis, or toxoplasmosis.133 Vaccines have not been developed for HTLV infections.
T-lymphocyte proliferative disorders develop in 1% to 5% of
infected individuals and are generally CD2+, CD3+, CD4+,
CD5+, CD25+, CD29+, CD45RO+, CD52+, HLA-DR+,
T-cell receptor αβ+, and variably CD30+, and lack CD7, CD8,
and CD26 expression. The virus is clonally integrated in the malignant cells. Complex karyotypes are often found, and cytogenetic
analysis is rarely useful. The histologic features of lymph nodes in
ATLL may be indistinguishable from those of other peripheral Tcell lymphomas.134 Circulating tumor “flower cells” are helpful in
the diagnosis (Fig. 5.3).

ATLL is categorized in four subtypes.135 (1) Smoldering ATLL
is defined as 5% or more abnormal T lymphocytes and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels up to 1.5× the upper limit of normal,
with normal lymphocyte count, calcium, and no lymph node or
visceral disease other than skin or pulmonary disease. (2) Chronic
ATLL is characterized by lymphocytosis, LDH up to 2× the upper
limit of normal, no hypercalcemia, and no CNS, bone, pleural,
peritoneal, or gastrointestinal involvement, although the lymph
nodes, liver, spleen, skin, or lungs may be involved. The mean
survival of these forms of ATLL is 2 to 5 years.136 No intervention in these subtypes of ATLL has been defined that prevents progression to the more aggressive forms of ATLL. Although chronic
or smoldering ATLL may respond to zidovudine and interferon,
randomized studies have not been conducted.137 (3) Lymphomatype ATLL is characterized by ≤1% abnormal T lymphocytes
and features of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. (4) Acute-type ATLL
includes the remaining patients. Even with optimal therapy, the
median survival of lymphoma and acute-type ATLL is less than
1 year.138 Lymphoma and acute types of ATLL are the most common presenting subtypes. Other major prognostic factors include
performance status, age, the presence of more than three involved
lesions, and hypercalcemia.139
Combination chemotherapy for lymphoma or acute-type
ATLL with the infusional etoposide, prednisone, vincristine, and
doxorubicin (EPOCH) regimen or the LSG-15 regimen results
in complete remission rates of 15% to 40%.140,141 However, responses are short lived, with <10% of patients free of disease at
4 years. The addition of anti-CCR4 antibody, mogamulizumab,
may improve response rates, but studies are still underway.142

A

C

B

D

Figure 5.3 Clinical manifestation of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma. (A–B) Infiltration of malignant T lymphocytes into the skin. (C) Lytic bone lesions
seen on lateral skull x-ray. (D) “Flower cells” in the blood.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

The combination of interferon and zidovudine with or without
arsenic may result in the remission of acute, but not lymphoma
subtypes.143 Allogenic transplantation may result in long-term,
disease-free survival for patients with complete or near complete
remission of disease, although infectious complications have been
notable in these studies.144

HEPATITIS VIRUSES
The earliest record of an epidemic caused by a hepatitis virus was
in 1885, occurring in individuals vaccinated for smallpox with
lymph from other people.145 The cause of the epidemic, HBV,
was not identified until 1966, when Blumberg discovered the
Australian antigen now known to be the hepatitis B surface antigen
(HBsAg). This was followed by the discovery of the virus particle
by Dane in 1970. In the early 1980s, the HBV genome was sequenced and the first vaccines were tested. In the mid 1970s, Alter
described cases of hepatitis not due to hepatitis A or B viruses, and
the suspected agent was designated non-A, non-B hepatitis virus,
now known as HCV.146 In 1987, Houghton used molecular cloning to identify the HCV genome and develop a diagnostic test,
which was licensed in 1990.
Approximately 240 million people are chronically infected
with HBV and 150 to 200 million people are infected with HCV
worldwide, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).
About 1 million deaths per year are attributed to the chronic diseases such as liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)
that result from viral hepatitis infections. HBV and HCV are the
leading cause of liver cancer in the world, accounting for almost
80% of the cases. In the United States, Europe, Egypt, and Japan,
more than 60% of HCC cases are associated with HCV, and 20%
are related to HBV and chronic alcoholism.147 In Africa and Asia,
60% of HCC is associated with HBV, 20% related to HCV, and
the remainder related to other risk factors, such as alcohol and
aflatoxin. HCC is the sixth most common cancer worldwide and is
the third most common cause of cancer death.148
In Asia and Africa, up to 70% of individuals have serologic evidence of current or prior HBV infection, and 8% to 15% of these
subjects have a chronic active infection. Rates of HCV infection
of >3.5% occur in Central and East Asia, North Africa, and the
Middle East. In the United States, 0.8 to 1.4 million individuals
are infected with HBV, and 3.2 million with HCV. The incidence
of HCC in the United States tripled between 1975 and 2005,
particularly in African American and Hispanic males.149
HBV is transmitted primarily through exposure to infected
blood, semen, and other body fluids, whereas HCV is transmitted
primarily by contact with contaminated blood. Acute HCV infection causes mild and vague symptoms in about 15% of individuals
and resolves spontaneously in 10% to 50% of cases.150 Liver enzymes are normal in 5% to 50% of individuals with chronic HCV
infection.151 After 20 years of an HCV infection, the likelihood of
cirrhosis is 10% to 15% for men, and 1.5% for women.152 Cofactors
that increase the likelihood of cirrhosis are coinfection with both
hepatitis viruses, persistently high levels of HBV or HCV viremia,
HBeAg, certain viral genotypes, schistosoma, HIV, alcoholism,
male gender, advanced age at the time of infection, diabetes, and
obesity.153,154

Hepatitis B Virus
HBV is an enveloped DNA virus that is a member of the Hepadnaviridae family.155 HBV has a strong preference for infecting hepatocytes, but small amounts of viral DNA can also be found in
kidney, pancreas, and mononuclear cells, although it is not linked
to extrahepatic disease. The viral genome is a relaxed circular,
partially double-stranded (ds) DNA of 3.2 kb. The genome exists as an episomal covalently closed circular dsDNA (cccDNA)

79

molecule in the nucleus of infected cells, although chromosomal
integration of viral genomic sequences can occur during cycles
of hepatocyte regeneration and proliferation. In addition to 40
to 42 nm virions, HBV-infected cells also produce noninfectious
20-nm spherical and filamentous particles. The viral genome encodes four open reading frames. The presurface–surface (preS-S)
region encodes three proteins from different translational initiation
sites; these include the S (HBsAg), M (or pre-S2), and L (or preS1) proteins. The L protein is responsible for receptor binding and
virion assembly. The precore–core (preC-C) region encodes the
HBcAg and HBeAg. The P region encodes the viral polymerase,
and the X (HBx) protein modulates host-signal transduction.
After infection, the viral genome is transcribed by host RNA
polymerase II, and viral proteins are translated. Nucleocapsids assemble in the cytosol, incorporating a molecule of pregenomic
RNA into the viral core, where reverse transcription occurs to
produce the dsDNA viral genome. Viral cores are enveloped with
intracellular membranes and viral L, M, and S surface antigens,
which are exported from the cells.
HBV replication is not cytotoxic. Instead, liver injury is due
to the host immune response, primarily T-cell and proinflammatory cytokine responses. Chronic HBV carriers exhibit an attenuated virus-specific T-cells response, although a vigorous humoral
response is still evident. About 5% of infections in adults and up
to 90% of infections in neonates result in a persistent infection,
which may or may not be associated with symptoms and elevated
serum aminotransferase levels. About 20% of such individuals develop cirrhosis. Immunosuppressed individuals also have a higher
likelihood of a persistent infection.
With acute infection, viral titers of 109 to 1010 virions per mililiter are present, whereas levels of 107 to 109 virions per mililiter
and HBsAg, and in some cases, HBeAg are present in the blood of
individuals with a persistent infection. The resolution of infection,
which is associated with declining viral DNA titers, is observed at
a rate of 5% to 10% per year in persistently infected individuals.
However, even subjects who have resolved the infection continue
to have very low levels of viral DNA (103 to 105 copies per mililiter)
for most of their lives.
HBV infection can be managed with alpha interferon or
nucleos(t)ide analogs that inhibit the viral polymerase, such as
lamivudine, telbivudine, entecavir, adefovir, and tenofovir.156
Entecavir and tenofovir are both effective at inducing viral suppression, and may be used in combination in patients with high
HBV DNA load or multidrug resistance. Because these agents are
all associated with some toxicity, current guidelines recommend
therapy only when liver disease is clinically apparent, with continued treatment for 6 to 12 months after clearance of HBeAg or
HBsAg. Although these drugs effectively control HBV, they typically fail to cure the infection due to the long-term persistence
of the cccDNA form of the viral genome. Other nucleos(t)ide
analogs are currently in clinical trials, as well as a novel form of
interferon (IFN-λ) and an inhibitor of virus release.157
Hepatitis D virus (HDV) occurs only in individuals coinfected
with HBV. HDV is composed a single-stranded circular viral RNA
genome of 1,679 nucleotides, a central core of HDAg, and an
outer coat with all three HBV envelope proteins. HDV infection
results in more severe complications than infection with HBV
alone, with a higher likelihood and more rapid progression to cirrhosis and HCC.

Hepatits C Virus
HCV is an enveloped RNA virus associated with cancer, primarily
HCC and, rarely, splenic marginal zone lymphoma.158 HCV is a
positive-sense, single-stranded RNA virus of the Flaviviridae family.159 There are seven genotypes of HCV; in the United States,
about 70% of infections are caused by genotype 1.160 HCV replicates in the cytoplasm and does not integrate into the host cell

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chapter 5 Oncogenic Viruses

80

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

genome. The viral RNA is 9.6 kb and encodes a single polyprotein
of 3,010 amino acids that is proteolytically processed into structural and nonstructural proteins. In addition to the structural roles
of the core (C) protein, it has also been reported to affect various
host cell functions. The envelope glycoproteins E1 and E2 mediate infectious entry through tetraspanin CD81 and other receptors
on hepatocytes and B lymphocytes.
HCV non structural proteins NS2, NS3, NS4A, NS4B, NS5A,
NS5B, and p7 are required for virus replication and assembly. NS2
is a membrane-associated cysteine protease. NS3 is a helicase and
NTPase that unwinds RNA and DNA substrates. The complex of
NS3 with NS4A forms a serine protease. NS4B induces the formation of a membranous web associated with the viral RNA replicase.
NS5A is an RNA-binding phosphoprotein, whereas NS5B is the
RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. The p7 protein forms a cation
channel in infected cells that has a role in particle maturation
and release.
Treating an HCV infection typically utilizes 24 to 48 weeks of
pegylated IFN-α and ribavirin.161 Treatment with IFN and ribavirin alone produces sustained virologic responses in 70% to 80%
of subjects with genotype 2 or 3 infections. Recently approved
inhibitors of the NS3-4A protease (e.g., telaprevir, boceprevir, or
simeprevir) may be included in IFN-based regimens, particularly
if the patient has failed prior therapy. Protease inhibitors are currently approved for use in IFN/ribavirin combination therapy for
HCV genotype 1 or 4 infection. Sofosbuvir, a nucleoside analog
inhibitor of the viral NS5B polymerase, has recently been approved for use in combination with ribavirin alone for genotypes 2
or 3, or in triple therapy for genotypes 1 and 4. Recently, IFN-free
regimens have also been approved. Additional protease and polymerase inhibitors are currently in development. A recent metaanalysis of eight randomized controlled trials comparing antiviral
therapy with placebo suggested that antiviral therapy resulted in a
50% reduced risk of HCC.162

Hepatitis Virus Pathogenesis
HBV and HCV depress innate immune responses by inhibiting
Toll-like receptor signaling through effects of HBx and NS3-4A.147
In addition, HCV C inhibits the Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling, and NS5A
and E2 inhibit IFN signaling. Through an undefined mechanism,
HBV can inhibit JAK-STAT signaling as well.
HBV and HCV induce HCC by direct and indirect mechanisms.147 Both HBV and HCV encode proteins that have pro- and
antiapoptotic properties. High levels of HBx block activation of the
NF-κB pathway, whereas HCV C and NS5A block apoptosis by
the activation of AKT and NF-κB, respectively. The C and NS5A
proteins may also induce epithelial–mesenchymal transition
(EMT), which is important for liver fibrosis, through effects on
transforming growth factor β and Src signaling. Mice transgenic
for NS5A develop steatosis and HCC.
HBx and HCV C are associated with mitochondria, where they
trigger oxidative stress that induces apoptosis. In addition, HBs and
HBx and NS3-4A alter calcium signaling and increase reactive oxygen species, which trigger endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, an
unfolded protein response, and the production of proinflammatory
cytokines that induce collagen synthesis, which drives the development of fibrosis. Autophagy is triggered by both viruses to restore
ER integrity, which promotes cell survival and viral persistence.
HBV and HCV also disrupt tumor suppressor proteins. HCV
NS5B recruits an ubiquitin ligase protein to modify pRB and
induce its degradation, whereas HBx and HCV C proteins both
inhibit p16INK4a and p21 cell cycle inhibitors, which leads to
the inactivating phosphorylation of pRB. The HBx and HCV C,
NS3, and NS5A proteins deregulate p53 tumor suppressor activity,
by compromising p53-mediated DNA repair. HBV and HCV also
induce alterations in micro-RNAs that are partially responsible for
cell cycle effects.

Although not part of the normal virus replication cycle, the
tendency of HBV genomic DNA sequences to integrate within
the host cell chromosomes also contributes to the pathogenesis of
HBV-associated HCC. In most hepatoma cells, HBV replication is
extinguished, and integration at certain sites provides a growth or
survival advantage, leading to tumors that are clonal with respect
to viral integration. Whole-genome sequencing studies have identified a number of cellular loci, including TERT and MLL, where
HBV integration is associated with HCC.163,164
Both HBV and HCV promote characteristics of cancer stem
cells. HBx promotes the expression of Nanog, Kruppel-like factor
4, octamer-binding transcription factor 4, and Myc. These markers
are also induced by HBV and HCV-induced hypoxia and hypoxiainduced factors.

Clinical Characteristics and Treatment of
Hepatitis Virus-Associated Malignancies
HBV and HCV infections are diagnosed by serologic assays, and/
or antigen assays in the case of HBV.153 Quantitative HBV DNA
and HCV RNA polymerase chain reactions are utilized to measure
virus load. No vaccine has been identified that protects against
HCV because infections consist of a genetically heterogenous
“swarm” of virus particles, some of which escape neutralization.
However, a vaccine, which now utilizes a recombinant HBsAg
produced in yeast cells, has been available for HBV prevention
for more than 30 years. The HBV vaccine reduces the risk of infection by more than 70%.157 Factors associated with HBV vaccination failure in adults include increased age, obesity, smoking,
diabetes, end-stage renal disease, HIV infection, alcoholism, or recipients of liver or kidney transplantation. There have been recent
suggestions that emerging HBV strains may be evolving to escape
neutralizing antibodies elicited by the current vaccine.165 Novel
vaccine adjuvants are currently in clinical trials, as well as studies
of a therapeutic HBV vaccine.
Because an early diagnosis of HCC is key to a successful treatment, there has been extensive research on surveillance techniques
in HBV- and HCV-infected individuals.166 The U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention has recently recommended that
all individuals born between 1945 and 1965 be tested for HCV infection. The American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases,
as well as the European and Asian Pacific Associations for the
Study of the Liver, endorse surveillance in HCV-infected individuals with cirrhosis using ultrasound every 6 months. Viral eradication does not fully eliminate the risk of HCC, and thus, continued
surveillance is still recommended in cirrhotic patients.
Therapeutic options for HCC are determined not only by the
number and size of HCC nodules as well as the presence or absence of vascular invasion and metastases, but also by liver function
and the presence or absence of portal hypertension.167 HCC amenable to liver transplantation is usually defined as either one tumor
measuring ≤50 mm in diameter or two to three tumors measuring ≤30 mm in diameter without vascular extension or metastasis
(Milan criteria).168 Up to 30% of all cases of HCC present with
multiple nodules of HCC, suggesting a field carcinogenesis effect
of HBV and HCV.169 HBV- and HCV-infected patients may have
a lower survival than noninfected patients after liver transplantation.170 Hepatitis B immune globulin and nucleos(t)ide analogs
are recommended for reinfection prophylaxis in the posttransplant
period for HBV-infected individuals.171 Studies are underway to
examine the appropriate use of antiviral therapy for HCV-infected
patients undergoing liver transplantation.
Reactivation of HCV can occur with chemotherapy or monoclonal antibody-based immunosuppressive therapies, but is less
frequent as compared to HBV infection.172 Individuals who appear
to have cleared an HBV infection and who have an undetectable
viral load can experience HBV reactivation on rituximab therapy.
Monitoring hepatic function and virus load is indicated during

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 5 Oncogenic Viruses

S E L E C T E D
The full reference list can be accessed at lwwhealthlibrary.com/oncology.
1. de Martel C, Ferlay J, Franceschi S, et al. Global burden of cancers attributable to infections in 2008: a review and synthetic analysis. Lancet Oncol
2012;13(6):607–615.
2. Schiller JT, Lowy DR. Virus infection and human cancer: an overview.
Recent Results Cancer Res 2014;193:1–10.
3. Chen CJ, Hsu WL, Yang HI, et al. Epidemiology of virus infection and
human cancer. Recent Results Cancer Res 2014;193:11–32.
4. Virgin HW, Wherry EJ, Ahmed R. Redefining chronic viral infection. Cell
2009;138(1):30–50.
5. Campo MS, O’Neil BW, Barron RJ, et al. Experimental reproduction
of the papilloma-carcinoma complex of the alimentary canal in cattle.
Carcinogenesis 1994;15(8):1597–1601.
6. Khoury JD, Tannir NM, Williams MD, et al. Landscape of DNA virus associations across human malignant cancers: analysis of 3,775 cases using RNASeq. J Virol 2013;87(16):8916–8926.
8. Mizutani T, Sayama Y, Nakanishi A, et al. Novel DNA virus isolated from
samples showing endothelial cell necrosis in the Japanese eel, Anguilla
japonica. Virology 2011;412(1):179–187.
9. Paulson KG, Carter JJ, Johnson LG, et al. Antibodies to merkel cell polyomavirus T antigen oncoproteins reflect tumor burden in merkel cell carcinoma
patients. Cancer Res 2010;70:8388–8397.
10. International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) Working Group. IARC
Monographs on the Evalation of Carcinogenic Risks to Humans. Malaria
and Some Polyomaviruses (SV40, BK, JC, and Merkel Cell Viruses), Vol. 104.
Lyon, France: IARC; 2013.
11. Moore PS, Chang Y. The conundrum of causality in tumor virology: the
cases of KSHV and MCV. Semin Cancer Biol 2013;26C:4–12.
21. Bosch FX, Broker TR, Forman D, et al. Comprehensive control of human
papillomavirus infections and related diseases. Vaccine 2013;31 Suppl 8:
I1–I31.
27. White EA, Howley PM. Proteomic approaches to the study of papillomavirus-host interactions. Virology 2013;435(1):57–69.
32. Schiller JT, Lowy DR. Understanding and learning from the success
of prophylactic human papillomavirus vaccines. Nat Rev Microbiol
2012;10(10):681–692.
37. Wang JW, Roden RB. L2, the minor capsid protein of papillomavirus. Virology 2013;445(1–2):175–186.
38. Ma B, Maraj B, Tran NP, et al. Emerging human papillomavirus vaccines.
Expert Opin Emerg Drugs 2012;17(4):469–492.
39. Scudellari M. HPV: sex, cancer and a virus. Nature 2013;503(7476):330–332.
40. Gillison ML, Alemany L, Snijders PJ, et al. Human papillomavirus and
diseases of the upper airway: head and neck cancer and respiratory papillomatosis. Vaccine 2012;30 Suppl 5:F34–54.
44. White EA, Kramer RE, Tan MJ, et al. Comprehensive analysis of host
cellular interactions with human papillomavirus E6 proteins identifies
new E6 binding partners and reflects viral diversity. J Virol 2012;86(24):
13174–13186.
45. White EA, Sowa ME, Tan MJ, et al. Systematic identification of interactions
between host cell proteins and E7 oncoproteins from diverse human papillomaviruses. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2012;109(5):E260–267.
47. Arron ST, Ruby JG, Dybbro E, et al. Transcriptome sequencing demonstrates that human papillomavirus is not active in cutaneous squamous cell
carcinoma. J Invest Dermatol 2011;131(8):1745–1753.
56. Das D, Wojno K, Imperiale MJ. BK virus as a cofactor in the etiology of
prostate cancer in its early stages. J Virol 2008;82(6):2705–2714.
59. Abend JR, Jiang M, Imperiale MJ. BK virus and human cancer: innocent
until proven guilty. Semin Cancer Biol 2009;19(4):252–260.
60. Maginnis MS, Atwood WJ. JC virus: an oncogenic virus in animals and
humans? Semin Cancer Biol 2009;19(4):261–269.

of HCV-infected patients with indolent lymphoma, but rarely in
individuals with aggressive lymphomas.

CONCLUSION
Oncogenic viruses are important causes of cancer, especially in
less industrialized countries and in immunosuppressed individuals. They are common causes of anogenital cancers, lymphomas,
oral and hepatocellular carcinomas and are associated with a
variety of other malignancies. Vaccines and antiviral agents play an
important role in the prevention of virus-induced cancers. Studies
of virus pathogenesis will continue to establish paradigms that are
critical to our understanding of cancer etiology in general.

R E F E R E N C E S
61. Feng H, Shuda M, Chang Y, et al. Clonal integration of a polyomavirus in
human Merkel cell carcinoma. Science 2008;319(5866):1096–1100.
66. Schowalter RM, Pastrana DV, Pumphrey KA, et al. Merkel cell polyomavirus and two previously unknown polyomaviruses are chronically shed from
human skin. Cell Host Microbe 2010;7(6):509–515.
70. Faust H, Andersson K, Ekstrom J, et al. Prospective study of Merkel cell polyomavirus and risk of Merkel cell carcinoma. Int J Cancer 2014;134(4):844–848.
71. Cheng J, Rozenblatt-Rosen O, Paulson KG, et al. Merkel cell polyomavirus large T antigen has growth-promoting and inhibitory activities. J Virol
2013;87(11):6118–6126.
72. Li J, Wang X, Diaz J, et al. Merkel cell polyomavirus large T antigen
disrupts host genomic integrity and inhibits cellular proliferation. J Virol
2013;87(16):9173–9188.
76. Paulson KG, Iyer JG, Tegeder AR, et al. Transcriptome-wide studies of merkel
cell carcinoma and validation of intratumoral CD8+ lymphocyte invasion as
an independent predictor of survival. J Clin Oncol 2011;29(12):1539–1546.
77. Arora R, Shuda M, Guastafierro A, et al. Survivin is a therapeutic target in
Merkel cell carcinoma. Sci Transl Med 2012;4(133):133ra56.
79. Shuda M, Kwun HJ, Feng H, et al. Human Merkel cell polyomavirus small
T antigen is an oncoprotein targeting the 4E-BP1 translation regulator. J Clin
Invest 2011;121(9):3623–3634.
88. Cesarman E. Gammaherpesviruses and lymphoproliferative disorders. Annu
Rev Pathol 2014;9:349–372.
89. Shannon-Lowe C, Rowe M. Epstein-Barr virus infection of polarized
epithelial cells via the basolateral surface by memory B cell-mediated transfer
infection. PLoS Pathog 2011;7(5):e1001338.
92. Barton ES, White DW, Cathelyn JS, et al. Herpesvirus latency confers symbiotic protection from bacterial infection. Nature 2007;447(7142):326–329.
93. Giulino-Roth L, Cesarman E. Molecular biology of Burkitt lymphoma. In:
Robertson E, ed. Burkitt’s Lymphoma. New York, NY: Springer; 2013: 211–226.
94. Chang ET, Adami HO. The enigmatic epidemiology of nasopharyngeal
carcinoma. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 2006;15(10):1765–1777.
96. Cohen JI, Mocarski ES, Raab-Traub N, et al. The need and challenges for development of an Epstein-Barr virus vaccine. Vaccine 2013;31(Suppl 2):B194–196.
106. Krown SE, Dittmer DP, Cesarman E. Pilot study of oral valganciclovir therapy
in patients with classic Kaposi’s sarcoma. J Infect Dis 2011;203(8):1082–1086.
107. Sakakibara S, Tosato G. Regulation of angiogenesis in malignancies associated with Epstein-Barr virus and Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpes virus.
Future Microbiol 2009;4(7):903–917.
109. Polizzotto MN, Uldrick TS, Wang V, et al. Human and viral interleukin-6
and other cytokines in Kaposi’s sarcoma herpesvirus-associated multicentric
Castleman disease. Blood 2013;122(26):4189–4198.
111. Coffin JM, Hughes SH, Varmus HE, eds. The interactions of retroviruses
and their hosts. Retroviruses. Cold Spring Harbor, NY: Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory Press; 1997.
112. Gallo RC. History of the discovery of the first human retroviruses: HTLV-1
and HTLV-2. Oncogene 2005;24:5926–5930.
116. Hacein-Bey-Abina S, VonKalle C, Schmidt M, et al. LMO2-associated clonal
T cell proliferation in two patients after gene therapy for SCID-X1. Science
2003;302:415–419.
117. Matsuoka M, Jeang K-T. Human T-cell leukaemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1)
infectivity and cellular transformation. Nat Rev Cancer 2007;7:270–280.
118. Poiesz BJ, Ruscetti FW, Mier JW, et al. T-cell lines established from human
T-lymphocytic neoplasias by direct response to T-cell growth factor. Proc Natl
Acad Sci U S A 1980;77:6815–6819.
120. Wolfe ND, Heneine W, Carr JK, et al. Emergence of unique primate
T-lymphotropic viruses among central African bushmeat hunters. Proc Natl
Acad Sci U S A 2005;102:7994–7999.
121. Goncalves DU, Prioietti FA, Ribas JGR, et al. Epidemiology, treatment, and
prevention of human T-cell leukemia virus type 1-associated diseases. Clin
Microbiol Rev 2010;23:577–589.

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

chemoimmunotherapy of HBV- or HCV-positive patients.173
Although there is controversy regarding the role of virus screening for patients undergoing chemotherapy, antiviral therapy is
recommended for high-risk HBV-infected patients undergoing
chemoimmunotherapy, such as rituximab-based chemotherapy
regimens.174
An association between HCV and B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) has also been demonstrated in highly endemic geographic areas.175 Lymphoproliferation has been linked to type II
mixed cryoglobulinemia in many of these individuals. In addition
to diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, marginal zone lymphomas and
lymphoplasmacytic lymphomas are the histologic subtypes most
frequently associated with HCV infection. Antiviral treatment with
IFNα with or without ribavirin has been effective in the treatment

81

82

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

122. Hino S, Sugiyama H, Doi H, et al. Breaking the cycle of HTLV-1 transmission via carrier mothers’ milk. Lancet Oncol 1987;2:158–159.
123. Kannian P, Green PL. Human T lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1):
molecular biology and oncogenesis. Viruses 2010;2:2037–2077.
124. Hill SA, Lloyd PA, McDonald S, et al. Susceptibility of human T cell leukemia virus type I to nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. J Infec Dis
2003;188:424–427.
125. Seegulam ME, Ratner L. Integrase inhibitors effective against human T-cell
leukemia virus type 1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2011;55:2011–2017.
128. Matsuoka M, Green PL. The HBZ gene, a key player in HTLV-1 pathogenesis. Retrovirology 2009;6:71.
129. Grossman WJ, Kimata JT, Wong FH, et al. Development of leukemia in
mice transgenic for the tax gene of human T-cell leukemia virus type I. Proc
Natl Acad Sci U S A 1995;92:1057–1061.
135. Shimoyama M. Diagnostic criteria and classification of clinical subtypes
of adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma: a report from the Lymphoma Study
Group. Br J Hematol 1991;79:426–437.
137. Bazarbachi A, Plumelle Y, Ramos JC, et al. Meta-analysis on the use of zidovudine and interferon-alfa in adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma showing improved survival in the leukemic subtypes. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:4177–4183.
138. Katsuya H, Yamanka T, Ishitsuka K, et al. Prognostic index for acute- and
lymphoma-type adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:
1635–1640.
139. Tsukasaki K, Hermine O, Bazarbachi A, et al. Definition, prognostic factors, treatment, and reponse criteria of adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma: a
proposal from an international consensus meeting. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:
453–459.
140. Yamada Y, Tomonaga M, Fukuda H, et al. A new G-CSF supported combination chemotherapy, LSG15, for adult T-cell leukaemia-lymphoma: Japan
Clinical Oncology Group Study 9303. Br J Hematol 2001;113:375–382.
141. Ratner L, Harrington W, Feng X, et al. Human T cell leukemia virus reactivation with progression of adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma. AIDS Malignancy
Consortium. PLoS One 2009;4:e4420.
143. Bazarbachi A, Suarez F, Fields P, et al. How I treat adult T-cell leukemia/
lymphoma. Blood 2011;118:1736–1745.

145. Blumberg BS. The discovery of the hepatitis B virus and the intervention of the vaccine: a scientific memoir. J Gastroenterol Hepatol 2002;
17(Supplement s4):S502–S503.
146. Houghton M. Discovery of the hepatitis C virus. Liver Int 2009;29
(Supplement 1):82–88.
147. Arzumanyan A, Reis HM, Feitelson MA. Pathogenic mechanisms in HBVand HCV-associated hepatocellular carcinoma. Nat Rev Cancer 2013;13:
123–135.
148. Soerjomataram I, Lortet-Tieulent J, Parkin DM, et al. Global burden of
cancer in 2008: a systematic analysis of disability-adjusted life-years in
12 world regions. Lancet 2012;380:1840–1850.
149. Altekruse SF, McGlynn KA, Reichman ME. Hepatocellular carcinoma incidence, mortality, and survival trends in the United States from 1975 to 2005.
J Clin Oncol 2009;27:1485–1491.
158. Wang WK, Levy S. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) and lymphomagenesis. Leuk
Lymphoma 2003;44:1113–1120.
159. Fernandez-Garcia MD, Mazzon M, Jacobs M, et al. Pathogenesis of flavivirus infections: using and abusing the host cell. Cell Host Microbe 2009;318:
318–328.
160. Moradpour D, Penin F, Rice CM. Replication of hepatitis c virus. Nat Rev
Microbiol 2007;5:453–463.
161. Liang TJ, Ghany MG. Current and future therapies for hepatitis C virus
infection. N Engl J Med 2013;368:1907–1917.
162. Kimer N, Dahl EK, Gluud LL, et al. Antiviral therapy for prevention of
hepatocellular carcinoma in chronic hepatitis C: systematic review and
meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. BMJ Open 2012;2:e001313.
165. Devi U, Locarnini S. Hepatitis B antivirals and resistance. Curr Opin Virol
2013;3:495–500.
167. Bruix J, Sherman M. Management of hepatocellular carcinoma: an update.
Hepatology 2011;53:1020–1022.
171. Beckebaum S, Kabar I, Cicinnati VR. Hepatitis B and C in liver transplantation: new strategies to combat the enemies. Rev Med Virol 2012;23:172–193.
173. Huang Y-H, Hsaio L-T, Hong Y-C, et al. Randomized controlled trial of entecavir prophylaxis for rituximab-associated hepatitis B virus reactivation in patients with lymhoma and resolved hepatitis. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:2765–2772.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

6

Inflammation

INTRODUCTION

MOLECULAR BASIS OF INFLAMMATION

Extensive research over the last half a century indicates that inflammation plays an important role in cancer. Although acute
inflammation can play a therapeutic role, low-level chronic
inflammation can promote cancer. Different inflammatory
cells, the various cell signaling pathways that lead to inflammation, and biomarkers of inflammation have now been well
defined. These inflammatory pathways, which are primarily
mediated through the transcription factors nuclear factor kappa
B (NF-κB) and signal transducer and activator of transcription
3 (STAT3), have been linked to cellular transformation, tumor
survival, proliferation, invasion, angiogenesis, and metastasis of
cancer. These pathways have also now been linked with chemoresistance and radioresistance. This chapter considers the role of
inflammation in cancer and its potential for cancer prevention
and treatment.
Inflammation is the complex biologic responses of the body
to irritation, injury, or infection. The recognition of inflammation dates back to antiquity. As documented by Aulus Cornelius
Celsus, a Roman of the 1st century AD, inflammation is characterized by the tissue response to injury that results in rubor (redness, due to hyperemia), tumor (swelling, caused by increased
permeability of the microvasculature and leakage of protein
into the interstitial space), calor (heat, associated with increased
blood flow and the metabolic activity of the cellular mediators
of inflammation), and dolor (pain, in part due to changes in the
perivasculature and associated nerve endings). Rudolf Virchow
subsequently added functio laesa (dysfunction of the organs involved) in the 1850s. The process includes increased blood flow
with an influx of white blood cells and other chemical substances
that facilitate healing. Inflammation is also considered the body’s
self-protective attempt to remove harmful stimuli, including
damaged cells, irritants, or pathogens, and to begin the healing
process.
The word inflammation is derived from the Latin inflammo
(meaning “I set alight, I ignite”). Because inflammation is a stereotyped response, it is considered a mechanism of innate immunity, as compared with adaptive immunity. On the basis of
longevity, inflammation is classified as acute or chronic. When inflammation is short term, usually appearing within a few minutes
or hours and ceasing upon the removal of the injurious stimulus,
it is called acute. However, if it persists longer, it is called chronic
inflammation, which leads to simultaneous destruction from the
inflammatory process. Inflammation is beneficial when it is acute;
however, chronic inflammation leads to several diseases, including cancer. Cancer is primarily a disease of lifestyle, with 30%
of all cancers having been linked to smoking, 35% to diet, 14%
to 20% to obesity, 18% to infection, and 7% to environmental
pollution and radiation (Fig. 6.1).1 Smoking, obesity, infections,
pollution, and radiation are all known to activate proinflammatory
pathways.2 Therefore, understanding how inflammation contributes to cancer etiology is important for both cancer prevention
and treatment.3

Although it is clear that inflammation and cancer are closely related,
the mechanisms underlying persistent and chronic inflammation
in chronic diseases remain unclear. Numerous cytokines have
been linked with inflammation, including tumor necrosis factor
(TNF), interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6, IL-8, IL-17, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Among various cytokines that have been
linked with inflammation, TNF is a primary mediator of inflammation linked to cancer.4 However, it has been shown that proinflammatory transcriptional factors (activator protein [AP]-1, STAT3,
NF-κB, hypoxia-inducible factor [HIF]-1, and β-catenin/Wnt) are
ubiquitously expressed and control numerous physiologic processes,
including development, differentiation, immunity, and metabolism
in chronic diseases. Although these transcription factors are regulated
by completely different signaling mechanisms, they are activated in
response to various stimuli, including stresses and cytokines, and are
involved in inflammation-induced tumor development and its metastasis.5 Interestingly, inflammation plays a role at all stages of tumor
development: initiation, progression, and metastasis.2 In initiation,
inflammation induces the release of a variety of cytokines and chemokines that promote the release of inflammatory cells and associated factors. This further causes oxidative damage, DNA mutations,
and other changes in the tissue microenvironment, making it more
conducive to cell transformation, increased survival, and proliferation. Inflammation also contributes to tissue injury, remodeling of
the extracellular matrix, angiogenesis, and fibrosis in diverse target
tissues. Among all the inflammatory cell signaling pathways, NF-κB
has been shown to play a major role in cancer,6,7 and TNF is one of
the most potent activators of NF-κB.8,9

ROLE OF INFLAMMATION IN
TRANSFORMATION
Transformation is the process by which the cellular and molecular
makeup of a cell is altered as it becomes malignant. Numerous
factors are involved in the process of cell transformation, including inflammation. A clinical study has shown that chronic inflammation due to heavy metal deposition in lymph nodes leads to
malignant transformation and, finally, to patient death.10 More recently, chronic exposure to cigarette smoke extract11 and arsenite12
has been shown to induce inflammation followed by epithelial–
mesenchymal transition and transformation of human bronchial
epithelial (HBE) cells. Furthermore, activation of NF-κB and
HIF-2α increased the levels of the proinflammatory IL-6, IL-8,
and IL-1β, which are essential for the malignant progression of
transformed HBE cells. Sox2, another important molecular factor,
cooperates with inflammation-mediated STAT3 activation, which
precedes the malignant transformation of foregut basal progenitor
cells.13 A clinical study reported that the p53 mutation is a critical
event for the malignant transformation of sinonasal inverted papilloma. This p53 mutation resulted in cyclooxygenase (COX)-2–
mediated inflammatory signals that contribute to the proliferation

83

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Sahdeo Prasad and Bharat B. Aggarwal

84

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

Hepatitis
B and C virus

Helicobacter
pylori

Tobacco
smoke

High-fat diet

Radiation

Uropathogens

Alcohol

Inflammation

Bronchitis

Hepatitis

Cervicitis

Colitis

Pancreatitis

Gastritis

Prostatitis

Cystitis

Cholecystitis

Lung
cancer

Liver
cancer

Cervical
cancer

Colon
cancer

Pancreatic
cancer

Stomach
cancer

Prostate
cancer

Bladder
cancer

Gallbladder
cancer

Figure 6.1 Origin of inflammation and its role in various cancers.

of advanced sinonasal inverted papilloma.14 In another study in
patients, the YKL-40 protein was found to be involved in chronic
inflammation and oncogenic transformation of human breast tissues.15 Inflammation-mediated transformation was also found to
be regulated by MyD88 in a mouse model through Ras signaling.16
In addition, inflammation contributed to the activation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and its subsequent interaction with PKCδ, which leads to the transformation of normal
esophageal epithelia to squamous cell carcinoma.17 Activation
of Src oncoprotein triggers an inflammatory response mediated
by NF-κB that directly activates Lin28 transcription and rapidly
reduces let-7 microRNA levels. The inflammatory cytokine IL-6
mediates the activation of STAT3 transcription factor, which results in the transformation of cells.18

ROLE OF INFLAMMATION IN SURVIVAL
Numerous findings across different cancer populations have suggested that inflammation has an important role in carcinogenesis
and disease progression.19,20 The important markers of systemic
inflammatory response in both in vitro findings and clinical outcomes include plasma C-reactive protein (CRP) concentration,21,22
hypoalbuminemia,23 and the Glasgow Prognostic Score (GPS),
which combines CRP and albumin.24,25 In addition to these, hematologic markers of systemic inflammatory response such as absolute
white-cell count or its components (neutrophils, neutrophil-tolymphocyte ratio [NLR]),26–28 platelets, and a platelet-to-lymphocyte
ratio29,30 are also prognostic indicators for cancer clinical outcomes.
Whether these inflammatory biomarkers influence the survival of
cancer patients is discussed in this section.
In a study of 416 patients with renal cell carcinoma, with
362 patients included in the analysis, elevated neutrophil count,
elevated platelet counts, and a high NLR were found. This inflammatory response was predictive for shorter overall patient survival.31
Another study in unresectable malignant biliary obstruction
(UMBO) found that patients with low GPS (0 and 1) had better
postoperative survivals than did patients with a higher GPS. The
6-month and 1-year survival rates were 58.1% to 27.3%, respectively, for patients with low GPS and 25% to 6.2%, respectively, for
patients with a higher GPS.32 It has been also shown that prostate

cancer patients with aggressive, clinically significant disease and
an elevated GPS2 had a higher risk of death overall as well as highgrade disease.33 Other than GPS, age and gastrectomy have also
been shown to independently influence the disease-specific and
progression-free survival of gastric cancer patients.34 A biomarker
of systemic inflammation, the blood NLR, predicted patient survival with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after transarterial chemoembolization. Patients in whom the NLR remained stable or
became normalized after transarterial chemoembolization showed
improved overall survival compared with patients showing a persistently abnormal index of NLR.35
A further study found that inflammatory transcription factors
and cytokines contribute to the overall survival of patients. One
study found that 97% of patients with epithelial tumors of malignant pleural mesothelioma and 95% of patients with nonepithelial
tumors expressed IL-4Rα protein, and this strong IL-4Rα expression was correlated with a worse survival. In response to IL-4,
human malignant pleural mesothelioma cells showed increased
STAT6 phosphorylation and increased production of IL-6, IL-8,
and VEGF without any effect on proliferation or apoptosis. This
finding indicates that high expression of STAT6 as well as STAT3
and cytokines is inversely correlated with survival in patients.36,37
NF-κB, along with IL-6, contributes to the survival of mammospheres in culture, because NF-κB and IL-6 were hyperactive in
breast cancer–derived mammospheres.38 In addition, elevated
CRP and serum amyloid A (SAA) were associated with reduced
disease-free survival of breast cancer patients.39 In gastroesophageal
cancer, proinflammatory cytokines IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α
and acute phase protein concentrations (CRP) were found to be
elevated, and these levels were associated with reduced survival of
patients.40 Additionally, the Bcl-2 family protein COX-2, which is
regulated by inflammatory transcription factors, is also involved in
the survival of cancer cells.41,42 Thus, we conclude that inflammation in general contributes to poor survival of patients.
In contrast to these findings, an in vivo study of dogs with osteosarcoma showed that survival improvement was apparent with
inflammation or lymphocyte-infiltration scores >1, as well as in
dogs that had apoptosis scores in the top 50th percentile.43 Also, in
patients with epithelioid malignant pleural mesothelioma, a high
degree of chronic inflammatory cell infiltration in the stromal
component was associated with improved overall survival.44

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

85

ROLE OF INFLAMMATION IN
PROLIFERATION

ROLE OF INFLAMMATION IN
ANGIOGENESIS

Several studies have shown that cell proliferation is affected by
inflammation.45 More significantly, proliferation in the setting of
chronic inflammation predisposes humans to carcinoma in the
esophagus, stomach, colon, liver, and urinary bladder.46 In postgastrectomy patients, Helicobacter pylori induced inflammation and
was associated with increased epithelial cell proliferation.47 Even
in the mouse model, chronic infection with Helicobacter hepaticus induced hepatic inflammation, which further led to hepatic
cell proliferation.48 Other reports found an increased expression
of the cell proliferative markers PCNA and Ki-67 in the linings of
inflamed odontogenic keratocysts compared with noninflamed lesions.49,50 These findings suggest the existence of greater proliferative activity in the cells with inflammation. Wang et al.51 showed
an increased expression of cell proliferative markers PCNA and
Ki-67 in a sample of 45 patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia.
The inflammatory biomarker COX-2 was also associated with the
proliferation of cells. The highest proliferation index was found in
COX-2–positive epithelium.51 The association of COX-2 and proliferation was also reported in a rat model. The carcinogen dimethylhydrazine (DMH) induces an increase in epithelial cell proliferation
and in the expression of COX-2 in the colon of rats.52 Erbb2, a kinase,
regulates inflammation through the induction of NF-κB, Comp1,
IL-1β, COX-2, and multiple chemokines in the skin by ultraviolet
(UV) exposure. This inflammation has been shown to increase the
proliferation of skin tissue after UV irradiation.53

Angiogenesis—the formation of new blood vessels from existing
vessels—is tightly linked to chronic inflammation and cancer.
Angiogenesis is one of the molecular events that bridges the gap
between inflammation and cancer. Angiogenesis results from multiple signals acting on endothelial cells. Mature vessels control
exchanges of hematopoietic cells and solutes between blood and
surrounding tissues by responding to microenvironmental cues,
including inflammation. Although inflammation is essential to
defend the body against pathogens, it has adverse effects on the
surrounding tissue, and some of these effects induce angiogenesis.
Inflammation and angiogenesis are thereby linked processes, but
exactly how they are related has not been well understood. Both
inflammation and angiogenesis are exacerbated by an increased
production of chemokines/cytokines, growth factors, proteolytic
enzymes, proteoglycans, lipid mediators, and prostaglandins.
A close relationship has been reported between inflammation
and angiogenesis in breast cancer. Tissue section staining showed
increased vascularity with the intensity of diffuse inflammation.66
Offersen et al.67 found that inflammation was significantly correlated in bladder carcinoma with microvessel density, which is a
marker of angiogenesis. Leukocytes have been described as mediators of inflammation-associated angiogenesis. In addition, the stable expression of TNF-α in endothelial cells increased angiogenic
sprout formation independently of angiogenic growth factors. Furthermore, in work using the Matrigel plug assay in vivo, increased
angiogenesis was observed in endothelial TNF-α–expressing
mice. Thus, chronic inflammatory changes mediated by TNF-α
can induce angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo, suggesting a direct
link between inflammation and angiogenesis.68 TNF-α–induced
inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa kinase (IKK)-β activation also
activates the angiogenic process. IKK-β activates the mammalian
target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway and enhances angiogenesis
through VEGF production.66 In addition to TNF-α, proinflammatory cytokines IL-1 (mainly IL-1β) and IL-8 were also found to be
major proangiogenic stimuli of both physiologic and pathologic
angiogenesis.69,70 Recently, another cytokine macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) was found to play a role in neoangiogenesis/vasculogenesis by endothelial cell activation along with
inflammation.71
Benest et al.72 found that a well-known regulator of angiogenesis, angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2), can upregulate inflammatory responses, indicating a common signaling pathway for inflammation
and angiogenesis. TGF-β induction was also reported in head and
neck epithelia and human head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC), with severe inflammation that leads to angiogenesis.73 The tumor-derived cytokine endothelial monocyte-activating
polypeptide II (EMAP-II) has been shown to have profound effects
on inflammation as well as on the processes involved in angiogenesis.74 NF-κB plays an important role in inflammation as well
as in angiogenesis, because the suppression of NF-κB and IkB-2A
blocks basic fibroblast growth factor–induced angiogenesis in vivo.
NF-κB regulates the angiogenic protein VEGF promoted by α5β1
integrin, which coordinately regulates angiogenesis and inflammation.75 It has been also reported that a coculture of cancer cells
with macrophages synergistically increased the production of various angiogenesis-related factors when stimulated by the inflammatory cytokine. This inflammatory angiogenesis was mediated by
the activation of NF-κB and activator protein 1 (Jun/Fos), because
the administration of either NF-κB–targeting drugs or COX-2 inhibitors or the depletion of macrophages blocked inflammatory
angiogenesis.76
In a mouse model, cigarette smoke induced the inflammatory protein 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX), and this induction activated
matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP-2) and VEGF to induce the
angiogenic process.77 A cellular enzyme, Tank-binding kinase 1

ROLE OF INFLAMMATION IN INVASION
A characteristic of invasive cancer cells is survival and growth under
nonadhesive conditions. This invasion of cancer cells causes the
disease to spread, which results in poor patient survival.54 A strong
relationship has been documented between inflammation and
cancer cell invasion.55,56 In a study of 150 patients with HCC, a
high GPS score was associated with a high vascular invasion of
cancer cells.57 Another study of colorectal cancer also supports the
links between inflammation and the invasion of cancer cells, with
a finding that a high GPS increased the invasion of colorectal cancer cells.58 In patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma,
a high GPS score also showed a close relationship with lymphatic
and venous invasion.59
At the molecular level, various proteins are known to be involved in tumor cell invasion. MMP-9, a gelatinase that degrades
type IV collagen—the major structural protein component in the
extracellular matrix and basement membrane—is thought to play
an important role in facilitating tumor invasion, as it is highly
expressed in various malignant tumors.60,61 Additionally, the high
expression of HIF-1α has been proposed as being associated with a
greater incidence of vascular invasion of HCC. This expression of
HIF-1α was further correlated with high expression of the inflammatory molecule COX-2.62
Breast cancer invasion has been linked to proteolytic activity at
the tumor cell surface. In inflammatory breast cancer (IBC) cells,
high expression of cathepsin B, a cell surface proteolytic enzyme,
has been shown to be associated with invasiveness of IBC. In addition, a high coexpression of cathepsin B and caveolin-1 was found
in IBC patient biopsies. Thus, proteolytic activity of cathepsin B
and its coexpression with caveolin-1 contributes to the invasiveness of IBC.63 In IBC, RhoC GTPase is also responsible for the
invasive phenotype.64 In addition, the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway
is crucial in IBC invasion. The molecules involved in cell motility are specifically upregulated in IBC patients compared with
stage-matched and cell-type-of-origin–matched non-IBCs patients.
Distinctively, RhoC GTPase is a substrate for Akt1, and its phosphorylation is absolutely essential for IBC cell invasion.65

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chapter 6 Inflammation

86

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

(TBK-1), has been proposed as a putative mediator in tumor angiogenesis. TBK-1 mediates angiogenesis through the upregulation of
VEGF and exerts proinflammatory effects via the induction of inflammatory cytokines. Thus, these pathways, including TBK-1, are
an important cross-link between angiogenesis and inflammation.78

shown to increase metastasis. In particular, Melnikova et al.92
demonstrated that PAF receptor antagonists can effectively inhibit
the metastatic potential of human melanoma cells in nude mice.
Mesenchymal stem cells promote HCC metastasis under the
influence of inflammation through TGF-β.93

ROLE OF INFLAMMATION IN METASTASIS

EPIGENETIC CHANGES AND
INFLAMMATION

Inflammation plays a regulatory role in cancer progression and
metastasis. Chronic or tumor-derived inflammation and inflammation-related stimuli within the tumor microenvironment promote blood and lymphatic vessel formation and aid in invasion and
metastasis.79,80 The association of inflammation and metastasis has
been observed in several cancer types. In an immunohistochemical
analysis of lung cancer tissues, a remarkably high level of metastasis was observed with severe inflammation.81 A mouse model of
breast cancer found that mammary tumors increased the frequency
of lung metastases, and this effect was associated with the recruitment of inflammatory cells to the lung as well as elevated levels of
IL-6 in the lung airways.82 In another murine model, implanting
human ovarian tumor cells into the ovaries of severe combined
immunodeficient mice resulted in peritoneal inflammation and
tumor cell dissemination from the ovaries. In addition, enhancement of the inflammatory response with thioglycolate accelerated
the development of ascites and metastases, and its suppression
with acetylsalicylic acid delayed metastasis.83 Thus, it can be concluded that inflammation facilitates ovarian tumor metastasis by a
mechanism largely mediated by cytokines.
It has been shown that metastatic tumor cells entering a distant organ such as the liver trigger a proinflammatory response
involving the Kupffer cell–mediated release of TNF-α and the
upregulation of vascular endothelial cell adhesion receptors, such
as E-selectin.84 The physiologic expression of the selectins is tightly
controlled to limit the inflammatory response, but dysregulated expression of selectins contributes to inflammatory and thrombotic
disorders as well as tumor metastases.85 Using P-selectin knockout
mice, the importance of P-selectin–mediated cell adhesive interactions in the pathogenesis of inflammation and metastasis of cancers has been clearly demonstrated.86
Tumor-associated inflammatory monocytes and macrophages
are essential promoters of tumor cell migration, invasion, and metastasis.87 Macrophages and their mediators affect the multistep
process of invasion and metastasis, from interaction with the extracellular matrix to the construction of a premetastatic niche. Monocytes are attracted by cytokines and chemokines (e.g., CSF-1,
GM-CSF, and MCP-1), which are released by tumor cells or cells
of the tumor microenvironment. These monocytes are then induced to express proangiogenic and metastatic factors, including
VEGF, fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-2, platelet-derived growth
factor (PDGF), intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1, vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM)-1, E-selectin, P- selectin, and
MMP-9.88 Versican, a large extracellular matrix proteoglycan, has
been shown to activate tumor-infiltrating myeloid cells through
Toll-like receptor (TLR) 2 and its coreceptors TLR6 and CD14
and to elicit the production of proinflammatory cytokines (including TNF-α), which enhance tumor metastasis. TLR2 increases the
secretion of IL-8, which potentiates metastatic growth. Ligation of
TLR2 by versican induces inflammatory cytokine secretion, providing a link between inflammation and cancer metastasis.89
IKK-α has been shown to be important in the inflammationassociated metastasis of cancer cells. Luo et al.90 demonstrated that
activation and nuclear localization of IKK-α by tumor-infiltrating
immune cells in prostatic epithelial tumor cells leads to malignant
prostatic epithelial cells with a metastatic fate. Src family kinases,
when inappropriately activated, promote pathologic inflammatory
processes and tumor metastasis, in part through their effects on
the regulation of endothelial monolayer permeability.91 Plateletactivating factor (PAF), an inflammatory biolipid, has also been

Epigenetics considers the heritable changes in the activity of gene
expression without the alteration of DNA sequences, and such
changes have been linked to many human diseases, including cancer.94 DNA methylation and histone modification are well-known
epigenetic changes that can lead to gene activation or inactivation.94–96 DNA methylation occurs primarily at cytosine-phosphate-guanine (CpG) dinucleotides as well as at transcriptional
regulatory sites on the gene promoter.96–98 Epigenetic abnormalities result in dysregulated gene expression and function, which can
further lead to cancer. Inflammation and epigenetic abnormalities
in cancer are highly associated. Inflammation induces aberrant
epigenetic alterations in a tissue early in the process of carcinogenesis, and accumulation of such alterations forms an epigenetic
field for cancer. Yara et al.99 have shown that increased inflammation, as evidenced by the activation of NF-κB, production of IL-6
and COX-2, as well as the decrease of IκB, leads to the promoter’s
methylation. However, preincubation of cells with a demethylating agent prevented inflammation.
Infectious agents also contribute to inflammation-induced epigenetic changes. Infectious agents such as H. pylori and hepatitis
C virus as well as intrinsic mediators of inflammatory responses,
including proinflammatory cytokines, induce genetic and epigenetic changes, including point mutations, deletions, duplications,
recombinations, and methylation of various tumor-related genes.
Interestingly, disturbances in cytokine and chemokine signals and
the induction of cell proliferation are important ways that inflammation induces aberrant DNA methylation. A study has shown
that infection of human gastric mucosae with H. pylori induces
chronic inflammation and further gastric cancers.100 This inflammation is associated with high methylation levels or high incidences of methylation.101–103
Furthermore, numerous reports have documented the fact that
inflammation is linked with epigenetic changes in carcinogenesis.
Recently, Achyut104 reported that inflammation in stromal fibroblasts caused epigenetic silencing of p21 and further tumor progression. Chronic inflammation also led to epigenetic regulation
of p16 and activation of DNA damage in a lung carcinogenesis
model.105
A transient inflammatory signal has been shown to initiate an
epigenetic switch from nontransformed cells to cancer cells via a
positive feedback loop involving NF-κB, Lin28, let-7, and IL-6.
This IL-6 induced STAT3, directly activated miR-21 and miR181b-1, and further induced the epigenetic switch. Thus, STAT3
underlies the epigenetic switch of mir-21 and mir-181b-1 that links
inflammation to cancer.106 Another report also showed that transient activation of Src oncoprotein mediates an epigenetic switch
from immortalized breast cells to a stably transformed line that
contained cancer stem cells. Thus, inflammation activates a positive feedback loop that maintains the epigenetic transformed state
for many generations in the absence of the inducing signal.18
DNA hypermethylation at promoter CpG islands is an important mechanism by which carcinogenesis occurs through the
inactivation of tumor-suppressor genes. Aberrant CpG island hypermethylation is also frequently observed in chronic inflammation and precancerous lesions, which again suggests links between
inflammation and epigenetic change.107 In addition, inflammation
induced the halogenation of cytosine nucleotide. Damage products of this inflammation-mediated halogenated cytosine interfere
with normal epigenetic control by altering DNA-protein interac-

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 6 Inflammation

87

tions that are critical for gene regulation and the heritable transmission of methylation patterns. These inflammation-mediated
cytosine damage products also provide a mechanistic link between
inflammation and cancer.108

an independent marker of poor outcome in patients with advanced
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).115

ROLE OF INFLAMMATION IN
CANCER DIAGNOSIS

Recently, the genomic landscape of the most common forms of
human cancer have been examined.116 Almost 140 genes and
12 cell signaling pathways have been linked with most cancers.
Several of these genes and pathways are directly or indirectly
linked with inflammation. A cytokine pattern in patients with cancer has been identified.117

S E L E C T E D
The full reference list can be accessed at lwwhealthlibrary.com/oncology.
52. Demarzo MM, Martins LV, Fernandes CR, et al. Exercise reduces inflammation and cell proliferation in rat colon carcinogenesis. Med Sci Sports
Exerc 2008;40:618–621.
53. Madson JG, Lynch DT, Tinkum KL, et al. Erbb2 regulates inflammation
and proliferation in the skin after ultraviolet irradiation. Am J Pathol 2006;
169:1402–1414.
54. Bondong S, Kiefel H, Hielscher T, et al. Prognostic significance of L1CAM
in ovarian cancer and its role in constitutive NF-kappaB activation. Ann
Oncol 2012;23:1795–1802.
55. Wu Y, Zhou BP. Inflammation: a driving force speeds cancer metastasis. Cell
Cycle 2009;8:3267–3273.
56. Aggarwal BB, Vijayalekshmi RV, Sung B. Targeting inflammatory pathways
for prevention and therapy of cancer: short-term friend, long-term foe. Clin
Cancer Res 2009;15:425–430.
57. Kinoshita A, Onoda H, Imai N, et al. The Glasgow Prognostic Score, an
inflammation based prognostic score, predicts survival in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. BMC Cancer 2013;13:52.
58. Toiyama Y, Miki C, Inoue Y, et al. Evaluation of an inflammation-based prognostic score for the identification of patients requiring postoperative adjuvant
chemotherapy for stage II colorectal cancer. Exp Ther Med 2011;2:95–101.
59. Kobayashi T, Teruya M, Kishiki T, et al. Inflammation-based prognostic
score, prior to neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, predicts postoperative outcome in patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Surgery 2008;
144:729–735.

INFLAMMATION AND TARGETED
THERAPIES
That inflammation can be used as a target for cancer prevention
and treatment is indicated by the fact that several drugs approved
by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) actually modulate proinflammatory pathways. For instance, EGFR, HER2,
VEGF, CXCR4, and proteasome have been shown to activate
NF-κB–mediated proinflammatory pathways, and their inhibitors
have been approved by the FDA for the treatment of various cancers. Similarly, steroids such as dexamethasone, nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and statins that are currently used
for prevention or treatment have also been found to suppress the
NF-κB pathway. Thus, these observations indicate that inflammatory pathways are excellent targets for cancer.

CONCLUSIONS
According to Colditz et al.,118 almost 50% of all cancers can be
prevented based on what we know today. All the studies summarized previously suggest that inflammation is closely linked
to cancer, and the incidence of most cancers can be reduced by
controlling inflammation. Proinflammatory conditions such as
colitis, bronchitis, hepatitis, and gastritis can all eventually lead to
cancer. Thus, one must find ways to treat these conditions before
the appearance of cancer. All these studies indicate that an antiinflammatory lifestyle could play an important role in both the
prevention and treatment of cancer.

R E F E R E N C E S
60. Nelson AR, Fingleton B, Rothenberg ML, et al. Matrix metalloproteinases: biologic activity and clinical implications. J Clin Oncol 2000;18:
1135–1149.
61. Clark ES, Weaver AM. A new role for cortactin in invadopodia: regulation of
protease secretion. Eur J Cell Biol 2008;87:581–590.
62. Dai CX, Gao Q, Qiu SJ, et al. Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha, in association with inflammation, angiogenesis and MYC, is a critical prognostic factor
in patients with HCC after surgery. BMC Cancer 2009;9:418.
63. Victor BC, Anbalagan A, Mohamed MM, et al. Inhibition of cathepsin B
activity attenuates extracellular matrix degradation and inflammatory breast
cancer invasion. Breast Cancer Res 2011;13:R115.
64. van Golen KL, Bao LW, Pan Q, et al. Mitogen activated protein kinase pathway is involved in RhoC GTPase induced motility, invasion and angiogenesis in inflammatory breast cancer. Clin Exp Metastasis 2002;19:301–311.
65. Lehman HL, Van Laere SJ, van Golen CM, et al. Regulation of inflammatory breast cancer cell invasion through Akt1/PKBalpha phosphorylation of
RhoC GTPase. Mol Cancer Res 2012;10:1306–1318.
66. Lee DF, Kuo HP, Chen CT, et al. IKK beta suppression of TSC1 links inflammation and tumor angiogenesis via the mTOR pathway. Cell 2007;130:
440–455.
67. Offersen BV, Knap MM, Marcussen N, et al. Intense inflammation in bladder carcinoma is associated with angiogenesis and indicates good prognosis.
Br J Cancer 2002;87:1422–1430.
68. Rajashekhar G, Willuweit A, Patterson CE, et al. Continuous endothelial
cell activation increases angiogenesis: evidence for the direct role of endothelium linking angiogenesis and inflammation. J Vasc Res 2006;43:193–204.

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chronic inflammation plays an important role in the etiology and
progression of chronic diseases, including cancer. Hence, chronic
inflammation may have an important diagnostic role in cancer.
Inflammation induced by inflammatory cells such as infiltrating
cells and mesothelial cells is mediated via the release of various
mediators and proteins, including PDGF, IL-8, monocyte chemotactic peptide (MCP-1), nitric oxide (NO), collagen, antioxidant
enzymes, and the plasminogen activation inhibitor (PAI). Furthermore, several inflammatory mediators have been shown to be
detected at increased concentrations, thereby aiding in the disease
diagnosis.109
In one study, numerous inflammatory disorders were detected
based on inflammation measured in gastric biopsies of patients
by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR). Using endoscopic samples, gastritis and gastric cancer were diagnosed.110 Furthermore, the degree of prostate inflammation has been used to
determine the level of incidental prostatitis.111 An assessment of
the expression of cytokines and other immune stimulatory molecules that drive B-cell activation provides insight into the etiology
of cancers. It has been shown that the dysregulation of cytokine
production precedes the diagnosis of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.112
Inflammation parameters have been used to diagnose cancer
in patients. Inflammation parameters, including CRP, were found
to differ in patients with cancer and in those without. In clinical
practice, however, such parameters are considered to have modest diagnostic value for cancer.113 In a study with 1,275 patients,
granulomatous inflammation was identified in 154 patients
(12.1%), of whom 12 out of 154 (7.8%) had a concurrent diagnosis of cancer.114 In another study with 173 patients, 52% had lung
adenocarcinoma. Patients with high systemic inflammation were
more likely to have more than two sites of metastatic disease and
to have poor performance status and less likely to receive any chemotherapy. Systemic inflammation at diagnosis is considered to be

INFLAMMATION AND GENOMICS

88

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

69. Voronov E, Carmi Y, Apte RN. Role of IL-1-mediated inflammation in tumor
angiogenesis. Adv Exp Med Biol 2007;601:265–270.
70. Qazi BS, Tang K, Qazi A. Recent advances in underlying pathologies provide
insight into interleukin-8 expression-mediated inflammation and angiogenesis. Int J Inflam 2011;2011:908468.
71. Asare Y, Schmitt M, Bernhagen J. The vascular biology of macrophage
migration inhibitory factor (MIF). Expression and effects in inflammation,
atherogenesis and angiogenesis. Thromb Haemost 2013;109:391–398.
72. Benest AV, Kruse K, Savant S, et al. Angiopoietin-2 is critical for cytokineinduced vascular leakage. PLoS One 2013;8: e70459.
73. Lu SL, Reh D, Li AG, et al. Overexpression of transforming growth factor
beta1 in head and neck epithelia results in inflammation, angiogenesis, and
epithelial hyperproliferation. Cancer Res 2004;64:4405–4410.
74. Berger AC, Tang G, Alexander HR, et al. Endothelial monocyte-activating polypeptide II, a tumor-derived cytokine that plays an important role in inflammation, apoptosis, and angiogenesis. J Immunother 2000;23:519–527.
75. Klein S, de Fougerolles AR, Blaikie P, et al. Alpha 5 beta 1 integrin activates
an NF-kappa B-dependent program of gene expression important for angiogenesis and inflammation. Mol Cell Biol 2002;22:5912–5922.
76. Ono M. Molecular links between tumor angiogenesis and inflammation: inflammatory stimuli of macrophages and cancer cells as targets for therapeutic
strategy. Cancer Sci 2008;99:1501–1506.
77. Ye YN, Liu ES, Shin VY, et al. Contributory role of 5-lipoxygenase and its
association with angiogenesis in the promotion of inflammation-associated
colonic tumorigenesis by cigarette smoking. Toxicology 2004;203:179–188.
78. Czabanka M, Korherr C, Brinkmann U, et al. Influence of TBK-1 on tumor angiogenesis and microvascular inflammation. Front Biosci 2008;13:
7243–7249.
79. Solinas G, Marchesi F, Garlanda C, et al. Inflammation-mediated promotion
of invasion and metastasis. Cancer Metastasis Rev 2010;29:243–248.
80. Affara NI, Coussens LM. IKKalpha at the crossroads of inflammation and
metastasis. Cell 2007;129:25–26.
82. Hobson J, Gummadidala P, Silverstrim B, et al. Acute inflammation induced
by the biopsy of mouse mammary tumors promotes the development of metastasis. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2013;139:391–401.
83. Robinson-Smith TM, Isaacsohn I, Mercer CA, et al. Macrophages mediate
inflammation-enhanced metastasis of ovarian tumors in mice. Cancer Res
2007;67:5708–5716.
84. Khatib AM, Auguste P, Fallavollita L, et al. Characterization of the host proinflammatory response to tumor cells during the initial stages of liver metastasis. Am J Pathol 2005;167:749–759.
85. McEver RP. Selectin-carbohydrate interactions during inflammation and
metastasis. Glycoconj J 1997;14:585–591.
86. Geng JG, Chen M, Chou KC. P-selectin cell adhesion molecule in inflammation, thrombosis, cancer growth and metastasis. Curr Med Chem 2004;
11:2153–2160.
87. Condeelis J, Pollard JW. Macrophages: obligate partners for tumor cell
migration, invasion, and metastasis. Cell 2006;124:263–266.
88. Siegel G, Malmsten M. The role of the endothelium in inflammation and
tumor metastasis. Int J Microcirc Clin Exp 1997;17:257–272.
89. Wang W, Xu GL, Jia WD, et al. Ligation of TLR2 by versican: a link between
inflammation and metastasis. Arch Med Res 2009;40:321–323.
90. Luo JL, Tan W, Ricono JM, et al. Nuclear cytokine-activated IKKalpha controls
prostate cancer metastasis by repressing Maspin. Nature 2007;446:690–694.
91. Kim MP, Park SI, Kopetz S, et al. Src family kinases as mediators of endothelial permeability: effects on inflammation and metastasis. Cell Tissue Res
2009;335:249–259.
92. Melnikova V, Bar-Eli M. Inflammation and melanoma growth and metastasis:
the role of platelet-activating factor (PAF) and its receptor. Cancer Metastasis
Rev 2007;26:359–371.
93. Jing Y, Han Z, Liu Y, et al. Mesenchymal stem cells in inflammation microenvironment accelerates hepatocellular carcinoma metastasis by inducing
epithelial-mesenchymal transition. PLoS One 2012;7:e43272.

94. Jones PA, Baylin SB. The epigenomics of cancer. Cell 2007;128:683–692.
95. Esteller M. Aberrant DNA methylation as a cancer-inducing mechanism.
Annu Rev Pharmacol Toxicol 2005;45:629–656.
96. Thiagalingam S, Cheng KH, Lee HJ, et al. Histone deacetylases: unique players
in shaping the epigenetic histone code. Ann N Y Acad Sci 2003;983:84–100.
97. Li E, Beard C, Jaenisch R. Role for DNA methylation in genomic imprinting.
Nature 1993;366:362–365.
98. Antequera F, Bird A. Number of CpG islands and genes in human and
mouse. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1993;90:11995–11999.
99. Yara S, Lavoie JC, Beaulieu JF, et al. Iron-ascorbate-mediated lipid peroxidation causes epigenetic changes in the antioxidant defense in intestinal epithelial cells: impact on inflammation. PLoS One 2013;8:e63456.
100. Uemura N, Okamoto S, Yamamoto S, et al. Helicobacter pylori infection and
the development of gastric cancer. N Engl J Med 2001;345:784–789.
101. Maekita T, Nakazawa K, Mihara M, et al. High levels of aberrant DNA
methylation in Helicobacter pylori-infected gastric mucosae and its possible
association with gastric cancer risk. Clin Cancer Res 2006;12:989–995.
102. Nakajima T, Maekita T, Oda I, et al. Higher methylation levels in gastric
mucosae significantly correlate with higher risk of gastric cancers. Cancer
Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 2006;15:2317–2321.
103. Perri F, Cotugno R, Piepoli A, et al. Aberrant DNA methylation in nonneoplastic gastric mucosa of H. Pylori infected patients and effect of
eradication. Am J Gastroenterol 2007;102:1361–1371.
104. Achyut BR, Bader DA, Robles AI, et al. Inflammation-mediated genetic and
epigenetic alterations drive cancer development in the neighboring epithelium
upon stromal abrogation of TGF-beta signaling. PLoS Genet 2013;9:e1003251.
105. Blanco D, Vicent S, Fraga MF, et al. Molecular analysis of a multistep lung cancer model induced by chronic inflammation reveals epigenetic regulation of p16
and activation of the DNA damage response pathway. Neoplasia 2007;9:840–852.
106. Iliopoulos D, Jaeger SA, Hirsch HA, et al. STAT3 activation of miR-21 and
miR-181b-1 via PTEN and CYLD are part of the epigenetic switch linking
inflammation to cancer. Mol Cell 2010;39:493–506.
107. Suzuki H, Toyota M, Kondo Y, et al. Inflammation-related aberrant patterns
of DNA methylation: detection and role in epigenetic deregulation of cancer
cell transcriptome. Methods Mol Biol 2009;512:55–69.
108. Valinluck V, Sowers LC. Inflammation-mediated cytosine damage: a mechanistic link between inflammation and the epigenetic alterations in human
cancers. Cancer Res 2007;67:5583–5586.
109. Kroegel C, Antony VB. Immunobiology of pleural inflammation: potential
implications for pathogenesis, diagnosis and therapy. Eur Respir J 1997;10:
2411–2418.
110. Li QB, Sun XJ, Xu YZ, et al. Use of Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy to rapidly diagnose gastric endoscopic biopsies. World J Gastroenterol
2005;11:3842–3845.
111. Difuccia B, Keith I, Teunissen B, et al. Diagnosis of prostatic inflammation:
efficacy of needle biopsies versus tissue blocks. Urology 2005;65:445–448.
112. Vendrame E, Martinez-Maza O. Assessment of pre-diagnosis biomarkers of
immune activation and inflammation: insights on the etiology of lymphoma.
J Proteome Res 2011;10:113–119.
113. Baicus C, Caraiola S, Rimbas M, et al. Utility of routine hematological and
inflammation parameters for the diagnosis of cancer in involuntary weight
loss. J Investig Med 2011;59:951–955.
114. DePew ZS, Gonsalves WI, Roden AC, et al. Granulomatous inflammation
detected by endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration in patients with a concurrent diagnosis of cancer: a clinical conundrum.
J Bronchology Interv Pulmonol 2012;19:176–181.
115. Jafri SH, Shi R, Mills G. Advance lung cancer inflammation index (ALI) at
diagnosis is a prognostic marker in patients with metastatic non-small cell
lung cancer (NSCLC): a retrospective review. BMC Cancer 2013;13:158.
116. Vogelstein B, Papadopoulos N, Velculescu VE, et al. Cancer genome landscapes. Science 2013;339:1546–1558.
117. Lippitz BE. Cytokine patterns in patients with cancer: a systematic review.
Lancet Oncol 2013;14:e218–228.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

7

Chemical Factors

INTRODUCTION
As early as the 1800s, initial observations of unusual cancer
incidences in occupational groups provided the first indications
that chemicals were a cause of human cancer, which was then
confirmed in experimental animal studies during the early and
mid 1900s. However, the extent to which chemical exposures
contribute to cancer incidence was not fully appreciated until
population-based studies documented differing organ-specific cancer rates in geographically distinct populations and in cohort studies such as those that linked smoking to lung cancer.1 The most
commonly occurring chemical exposures that increase cancer risk
are tobacco, alcoholic beverages, diet, and reproductive factors
(e.g., hormones). Today, it is recognized that cancer results not
solely from chemical exposure (e.g., in the workplace or at home),
but that a variety of biologic, social, and physical factors contribute
to cancer pathogenesis.2,3 For some common cancers, it also has
been recognized that heritable factors also contribute to cancer
risk from chemical exposure (e.g., genes involved in carcinogen
metabolism, DNA repair, a variety of cancer pathways).4 Twin
studies show that for common cancers, nongenetic risk factors are
dominant, and the best associations for genetic risks of sporadic
cancers indicate that the risks for specific genetic traits are typically
less than 1.5-fold.5–7 The role of the tumor microenvironment, the
cancer stem cells, and feedback signaling to and from the tumor
also have been recently recognized as important contributors to
carcinogenesis, although how chemicals affect these have yet been
clearly demonstrated.8–10
The experimental induction of tumors in animals, the neoplastic transformation of cultured cells by chemicals, and the molecular analysis of human tumors have revealed important concepts
regarding the pathogenesis of cancer and how laboratory studies
can be used to better understand human cancer pathogenesis.7,11,12
Chemical carcinogens usually affect specific organs, targeting the
epithelial cells (or other susceptible cells within an organ) and
causing genetic damage (genotoxic) or epigenetic effects regulating DNA transcription and translation. Chemically related DNA
damage and consequent somatic mutations relevant to human
cancer can occur either directly from exogenous exposures or
indirectly by activation of endogenous mutagenic pathways (e.g.,
nitric oxide, oxyradicals).13,14 The risk of developing a chemically
induced tumor may be modified by nongenotoxic exogenous and
endogenous exposures and factors (e.g., hormones, immunosuppression triggered by the tumor), and by accumulated exposure to
the same or different genotoxic carcinogens.7,15
Analyses of how chemicals induce cancer in animal models
and human populations has had a major impact on human health.
Experimental studies have been instrumental in replicating hypotheses generated from human studies and identifying pathobiologic mechanisms. For example, animal experiments confirmed
the carcinogenic and cocarcinogenic properties of cigarette smoke
and identified bioactive chemical and gaseous components.1 The
transplacental carcinogenicity of diethylstilbestrol and the hazards of specific occupational carcinogens such as vinyl chloride,

benzene, aromatic amines, and bis(chloromethyl)ether led to a
reduction in allowable exposures of suspected human carcinogens
from the workplace and a reduction in cancer rates. Dietary factors
that enhance or inhibit cancer development and the contribution
of obesity to specific organ sites have been identified in models of
chemical carcinogenesis, and alterations in diet and obesity are
expected to result in reduced cancer risk. Experimental animal
studies are the mainstay of risk assessment as a screening tool to
identify potential carcinogens in the workplace and the environment, although these studies do not prove specific chemical etiologies as a cause of human cancer because of interspecies differences
and the use of maximally tolerated doses that do not replicate
human exposure.

THE NATURE OF CHEMICAL
CARCINOGENS: CHEMISTRY AND
METABOLISM
The National Toxicology Program, based mostly on experimental animal studies and supported by epidemiology studies when
available, lists 45 chemical, physical, and infectious agents
as known human carcinogens and about 175 that are reasonably anticipated to be human carcinogens (http://ntp.niehs.
nih.gov/?objectid=035E57E7-BDD9-2D9B-AFB9D1CADC8
D09C1), whereas the International Agency for Research on
Cancer (IARC) lists 113 agents as carcinogenic to humans and
66 that are probably carcinogenic to humans (http://monographs.
iarc.fr/ENG/Classification/index.php). Table 7.1 provides a selected list of known human carcinogens, as indicated by the
IARC, which are continuously updated.16 Most chemical carcinogens first undergo metabolic activation by cytochrome P450s
or other metabolic pathways so that they react with DNA and/or
alter epigenetic mechanisms.11,17 This process, evolutionarily presumed to have been developed to rid the body of foreign chemicals for excretion, inadvertently generates reactive carcinogenic
intermediates that can bind cellular molecules, including DNA,
and cause mutations or other alterations.18 Recent data indicate
that metabolizing enzymes also have the ability to cross-talk with
transcription factors involved in the regulation of other metabolizing and antioxidant enzymes.19 DNA is considered the ultimate
target for most carcinogens to cause either mutations or gross
chromosomal changes, but epigenetic effects, such as altered
DNA methylation and gene transcription, also promote carcinogenesis.20 The formation of DNA adducts, where chemicals bind
directly to DNA to promote mutations, is likely necessary but not
sufficient to cause cancer.
Genotoxic carcinogens may transfer simple alkyl or complexed (aryl) alkyl groups to specific sites on DNA bases.18,21
These alkylating and aryl-alkylating agents include, but are not
limited to, N-nitroso compounds, aliphatic epoxides, aflatoxins,
mustards, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, and other combustion products of fossil fuels and vegetable matter. Others transfer arylamine residues to DNA, as exemplified by aryl aromatic

89

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Stuart H. Yuspa and Peter G. Shields

90

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

T A B L E 7. 1
Known Chemical Carcinogens in Humansa
Target Organ

Agents

Industries

Tumor Type

Lung

Tobacco smoke, arsenic, asbestos, crystalline silica,
benzo(a)pyrene, beryllium, bis(chloro)methyl ether,
1,3-butadiene, chromium VI compounds, coal tar and
pitch, diesel exhaust, nickel compounds, soot, mustard
gas, cobalt-tungsten carbide powders

Aluminum production, coal
gasification, coke production,
painting, hematite mining,
painting, grinding in oil and gas

Squamous, large cell,
and small cell cancer and
adenocarcinoma

Pleura

Asbestos, erionite, painting

Insulation, mining

Mesothelioma

Oral cavity

Tobacco smoke, alcoholic beverages, nickel
compounds, betel quid

–

Squamous cell cancer

Esophagus

Tobacco smoke, alcoholic beverages, betel quid

–

Squamous cell cancer

Gastric

Tobacco smoking

Rubber industry

Adenocarcinoma

Colon

Alcohol, tobacco smoking

–

Adenocarcinoma

Liver

Aflatoxin, vinyl chloride, tobacco smoke, alcoholic
beverages

–

Hepatocellular carcinoma,
hemangiosarcoma

Kidney

Tobacco smoke, trichloroethylene

–

Renal cell cancer

Bladder

Tobacco smoke, 4-aminobiphenyl, benzidine,
2-napthylamine, cyclophosphamide, phenacetin

Magenta manufacturing,
auramine manufacturing,
painting, rubber production

Transitional cell cancer

Prostate

Cadmium

–

Adenocarcinoma

Skin

Arsenic, benzo(a)pyrene, coal tar and pitch, mineral
oils, soot, cyclosporin A, azathioprine, shale oils

–

Squamous cell cancer, basal
cell cancer

Bone marrow

Benzene, tobacco smoke, ethylene oxide,
antineoplastic agents, cyclosporin A, formaldehyde

Rubber workers

Leukemia, lymphoma

a

The carcinogen designations are determined by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (http://monographs.iarc.fr/index.php). They do not imply proof
of carcinogenicity in individuals. This table is not all inclusive. For additional information, the reader is referred to agency documents and publications.

amines, aminoazo dyes, and heterocyclic aromatic amines. For
genotoxic carcinogens, the interaction with DNA is not random,
and each class of agents reacts selectively with purine and pyrimidine targets.7,18,21 Furthermore, targeting carcinogens to
particular sites in DNA is determined by nucleotide sequence,
by host cell, and by selective DNA repair processes (see later
discussion), making some genetic material at risk over others.
As expected from this chemistry, genotoxic carcinogens can be
potent mutagens and particularly adept at causing nucleotide
base mispairing or small deletions, leading to missense or nonsense mutations. Others may cause macrogenetic damage, such
as chromosome breaks and large deletions. In some cases, such
genotoxic damage may result in changes in transcription and
translation that affect protein levels or function, which in turn
alter the behavior of the specific host cell type. For example,
there may be effects on cell proliferation, programmed cell
death, or DNA repair. This is best typified by the signature mutations detected in the p53 gene caused by ingested aflatoxin
in human liver cancer22 and by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons human lung cancer caused by the inhalation of cigarette
smoke.15,23,24 Similarly, a distinct pattern of mutations is detected in pancreatic cancers from smokers when compared with
pancreatic cancers from nonsmokers.25
Some chemicals that cause cancers in laboratory rodents are
not demonstrably genotoxic. In general, these agents are carcinogenic in laboratory animals at high doses and require prolonged
exposure. Synthetic pesticides and herbicides fall within this group,
as do a number of natural products that are ingested. The mechanism of action by nongenotoxic carcinogens is not well understood,
and may be related in some cases to toxic cell death and regenerative hyperplasia. They may also induce endogenous mutagenic
mechanisms through the production of free radicals, increasing

rates of depurination, and the deamination of 5-methylcytosine. In
other cases, nongenotoxic carcinogens may have hormonal effects
on hormone-dependent tissues. For example, some pesticides, herbicides, and fungicides have endocrine-disrupting properties in
experimental models, although the relation to human cancer risk
is unknown.

ANIMAL MODEL SYSTEMS AND CHEMICAL
CARCINOGENESIS
Most human chemical carcinogens can induce tumors in experimental animals; however, the tumors may not be in the same
organ, the exposure pathways may differ from human exposure,
and the causative mechanisms may not exist in humans. In many
cases, however, the cell of origin, morphogenesis, phenotypic
markers, and genetic alterations are qualitatively identical to corresponding human cancers. Furthermore, animal models have
revealed the constancy of carcinogen–host interaction among
mammalian species by reproducing organ-specific cancers in
animals with chemicals identified as human carcinogens, such
as coal tar and squamous cell carcinomas, vinyl chloride and
hepatic angiosarcomas, aflatoxin and hepatocellular carcinoma,
and aromatic amines and bladder cancer. The introduction of
genetically modified mice designed to reproduce specific human
cancer syndromes and precancer models has accelerated both the
understanding of the contributions of chemicals to cancer causation and the identification of potential exogenous carcinogens.26,27
Furthermore, construction of mouse strains genetically altered to
express human drug–metabolizing enzymes has added both to the
relevance of mouse studies for understanding human carcinogen
metabolism and the prediction of genotoxicity from suspected

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 7 Chemical Factors

Genetic Susceptibility to Chemical
Carcinogenesis in Experimental Animal
Models
The use of inbred strains of rodents and spontaneous or genetically modified mutant strains have led to the identification and
characterization of genes that modify risks for cancer development.30–32 For a variety of tissue sites, including the lungs, the liver,
the breast, and the skin, pairs of inbred mice can differ by 100fold in the risk for tumor development after carcinogen exposure.
Genetically determined differences in the affinity for the aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (Ah) receptor or other differences in metabolic processing of carcinogens is one modifier that has a major
impact on experimental and presumed human cancer risk.33–35
The development of mice reconstituted with components of the
human carcinogen–metabolizing genome should facilitate the
extrapolation of metabolic activity by human enzymes and cancer risk.27,28,36 Such mice also show that other loci regulate the
growth of premalignant foci, the response to tumor promoters, the
immune response to metastatic cells, and the basal proliferation
rate of target cells.30 In mice susceptible to colon cancer due to
a carcinogen-induced constitutive mutation in the APC gene, a
locus on mouse chromosome 4 confers resistance to colon cancer.31 The identification of the phospholipase A2 gene at this locus
and subsequent functional testing in transgenic mice revealed
an interesting paracrine protective influence on tumor development.31 This gene, and several other genes mapped for susceptibility to chemically induced mouse tumors (PTPRJ, a receptor type
tyrosine phosphatase, and STK6/STK15, an aurora kinase), have
now been shown to influence susceptibility to organ-specific cancer induction in humans.30,31

MOLECULAR EPIDEMIOLOGY, CHEMICAL
CARCINOGENESIS, AND CANCER RISK IN
HUMAN POPULATIONS
Molecular epidemiology is the application of biologically based
hypotheses using molecular and epidemiologic methods and measures. New technologies continue to allow epidemiologic studies
to improve the testing of biologically based hypotheses and to develop large datasets for hypothesis generation, most notably the
application of various –omics technologies via next-generation
sequencing (e.g., genomics, epigenomics, transcriptomics), proteomics, and metabolomics. The greatest challenge now is to
develop methods that allow for analysis cutting across various technologies.37–43 Recent advances now include the role of microRNA
and long noncoding RNAs in tumor development and progression
because of their impact on the regulation of gene expression.44,45
Chemical effects on microRNAs and the resultant gene expression
is currently being identified.46 Using such technologies, emerging
evidence is noting the importance of the microbiome and associated infections as a risk of human cancer.47–50 The complexity of
environmental exposure and how it interacts with humans to affect numerous biologic pathways has been characterized as the exposome, also expressed as a multidimensional complex dataset.51
Therefore, the important goal remains: to characterize cancer risk
based on gene–environment interactions. However, we remain
challenged because cancer is a complex disease of diverse etiologies by multiple exposures causing damage in different genes; for

example, genen–environmentn interactions, for which the variable
n is not known.
Two fundamental principles underlie current studies of molecular epidemiology. First, carcinogenesis is a multistage process, and behind each stage are numerous genetic events that
occur either due to an exogenous insult such as a chemical exposure or an endogenous insult, such as from free radicals generated
via cellular processes or errors in DNA replication. Therefore,
identifying a cancer risk factor can be challenging because of the
multifactorial nature of carcinogenesis, given that any one risk
factor occurs within a background of many risk factors. Second,
wide interindividual variation in response to carcinogen exposure and other carcinogenic processes indicate that the human
response is not homogeneous, so that experimental models and
epidemiology (e.g., the use of a single cell clone to study a gene’s
effect experimentally or the assumption that the population responds similarly to the mean in epidemiology studies), might
not be representative of susceptible and resistant groups within
a population.

Genetic Susceptibility
In humans, the determination of genetic susceptibility can be
assessed by phenotyping or genotyping methods. Phenotypes
generally represent complex genotypes. Examples of phenotypes include the assessment of DNA repair capacity in cultured
blood cells, mammographic breast density, or the quantitation
of carcinogen-DNA adducts in a target organ. Phenotypes now
also include profiles of methylation that affect gene expression,
a so-called epigenetic effect, for example, identified though
next-generation sequencing or other methods.52 The contribution of genetics to cancer risk from chemical carcinogens can
range from small to large, depending on its penetrance.4 Highly
penetrant cancer-susceptibility genes cause familial cancers, but
account for less than 5% of all cancers. Low-penetrant genes
cause common sporadic cancers, which have large public health
consequences.
A genetic polymorphism (e.g., single nucleotide polymorphisms) is defined as a genetic variant present in at least 1% of
the population. Because of the advent of improved genotyping
methods that have reduced cost and increased high throughput, haplotyping and whole genomewide association studies
are ongoing. Although haplotyping studies, facilitated through
the International HapMap Project (www.hapmap.org), have
not proven useful for predicting human cancers; high-density,
whole genomewide, single nucleotide polymorphism association studies have shown remarkable consistency for many gene
loci, although the risk estimates are only 1.0 to 1.4, which are
not useful in the clinic for individual risk assessment.6 For example, the contribution of genetic polymorphisms to cancer risk, at
least for breast cancer, appears to improve risk modeling by only
a few percent; known breast cancer risk factors account for about
58% of risk, and adding 10 genetic variants increases the risk
prediction only to 62%.53 Genes under study are from pathways
that affect behavior, activate and detoxify carcinogens, affect
DNA repair, govern cell-cycle control, trigger apoptosis, effect
cell signaling, and so forth.

Biomarkers of Cancer Risk
The evaluation of dose and risk estimates in epidemiologic studies
can include four components: namely, external exposure measurements, internal exposure measurements, biomarkers estimating
the biologically effective dose, and biomarkers of effect or harm.
The latter three measurements are biomarkers that improve on
the first by quantifying exposure inside the individual and at the
cellular level to characterize low-dose exposures in low-risk populations, providing a relative contribution of individual chemical

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

human carcinogens and other chemical exposures.28 Together,
these studies have indicated that carcinogenic agents can directly
activate oncogenes, inactivate tumor suppressor genes, and cause
the genomic changes that are associated with autonomous growth,
enhanced survival, and modified gene expression profiles that are
required for the malignant phenotype.29

91

92

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

carcinogens from complex mixtures, and/or estimating total burden of a particular exposure where there are many sources.54
Chemicals cause genetic damage in different ways, namely in
the formation of carcinogen-DNA adducts leading to base mutations or gross chromosomal changes. Adducts are formed when a
mutagen, or part of it, irreversibly binds to DNA so that it can cause
a base substitution, insertion, or deletion during DNA replication.
Gross chromosomal mutations are chromosome breaks, gaps, or
translocations. The level of DNA damage is the biologically effective dose in a target organ, and reflects the net result of carcinogen
exposure, activation, lack of detoxification, lack of effective DNA
repair, and lack of programmed cell death. A variety of assays have
been used for determining carcinogen-macromolecular adducts in
human tissues; for example, for assessing risk from tobacco smoking for lung cancer and aflatoxin and liver cancer.55,56 Important
considerations for the assessment of biomarkers include sensitivity, specificity, reproducibility, accessibility for human use, and
whether it represents a risk measured in a target organ or surrogate tissue. No single biomarker has been considered to be sufficiently validated for use as a cancer risk marker in an individual
as it relates to chemical carcinogenesis.57 However, there is some
evidence that DNA adducts are cancer risk factors in both cohort
and case-control studies.58
People are commonly exposed to N-nitrosamine and other
N-nitroso compounds from dietary and tobacco exposures, which
are associated with DNA adduct formation and cancer. Exposure can occur through endogenous formation of N-nitrosamines
from nitrates in food or directly from dietary sources, cosmetics,
drugs, household commodities, and tobacco smoke. Endogenous
formation occurs in the stomach from the reaction of nitrosatable
amines and nitrate (used as a preservative), which is converted
to nitrites by bacteria. The N-nitrosamines undergo metabolic activation by cytochrome P450s (CYP2E1, CYP2A6, and
CYP2D6) and form DNA adducts. Biomarkers are available to
assess N-nitrosamine exposure from tobacco smoke (e.g., urinary
tobacco-specific nitrosamine levels) or DNA, including in target
organs such as the lungs. Recent data indicate that increasing levels of tobacco-specific nitrosamine metabolites are associated with
increased lung cancer risk.55
Heterocyclic amines are formed from the overheating of food
with creatine, such as meat, chicken, and fish.59 Heterocyclic
amines, estimated based on consumption of well-done meat, have
been associated with breast and colon cancer, presumably through
metabolic activation mechanisms and DNA damage.59 Aflatoxins,
another food contaminant, are considered to be a major contributor to liver cancer in China and parts of Africa, especially interacting with hepatitis viruses, and urinary aflatoxin adduct levels are
predictors of liver cancer risk.56
Aromatic amines are another class of human carcinogens.
Aryl aromatic amines have been implicated in bladder carcinogenesis, especially in occupationally exposed cohorts (e.g., dye
workers) and tobacco smokers.60 These compounds are activated
by cytochrome P4501A2 and excreted via the N-acetyltransferase
2 gene. They are genotoxic, and the quantitative assessment using
biomarkers has been more difficult, but some persons have studied
DNA adducts as well.61
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) are large, aromatic
(three or more fused benzene rings) compounds that are a class
of more than 200 chemicals. These compounds are ubiquitous in
the environment and present in the ambient air. They are formed
from overcooking foods, fireplaces, charcoal barbeques, burning of
coal and crude oil, tobacco smoke, and can be found in various occupational settings. In order for PAHs to exert their toxic effect, they
must undergo metabolic activation via cytochromes P4501A1 and
P4503A4 to form DNA adducts, or are excreted via pathways involving the glutathione-S-transferase genes. PAHs are associated with an
increased risk of lung and skin cancer in the occupational setting,
although risk varies by type of industry and the individual being

exposed.62,63 Benzo(a)pyrene (BaP), the most frequently studied
PAH, serves as a model for chemical carcinogens. The bay region
diol epoxide binds to DNA, mostly as the N2-deoxyguanosine adduct. The evidence linking BaP-deoxyguanosine adducts with a
carcinogenic effect in lung cancer is very strong, including sitespecific hotspot mutations in the p53 tumor suppressor gene.64–68
Various biomarkers of exposure have been developed for assessing
PAH exposure. These include measuring DNA adducts, protein adducts, and urinary 1-hydroxypyrene; only the latter is a validated
biomarker of exposure and no adducts have been validated as biomarkers of cancer risk. However, recent data indicate that PAH metabolites might be risk factors for lung cancer.58
Air pollution has been recently classified by the IARC as a
known human lung carcinogen.69 Studies that support the conclusion include cohort studies that use biomarkers of exposure.70
Such markers include measurements of 1-hydroxypyrene, DNA
adducts, chromosomal aberrations, micronuclei, oxidative damage
to nucleobases, and methylation changes.71
Epidemiologic and experimental studies have linked benzene
to hematologic toxicity, including aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and acute myeloid leukemia.72–74 Benzene is
metabolized by hepatic P4502E1 (CYP2E1), yielding benzene
oxide and hydroquinone, among other reactive metabolites.
Circulating hydroquinones may be further metabolized to reactive
benzoquinones by myeloperoxidase in bone marrow white blood
cell precursors and stroma. Benzene metabolites are reported to
have a variety of biologic consequences on bone marrow cells,
including covalent binding to DNA and protein, alterations in
gene expression, cytokine and chemokine abnormalities, and
chromosomal aberrations.75 There are well-established biomarkers of exposure to benzene, but to date, biomarkers of toxicity have
not been validated (except for high-level exposure workplaces and
effects of peripheral blood counts).

ARISTOLOCHIC ACID AND UROTHELIAL
CANCERS AS A MODEL FOR IDENTIFYING
HUMAN CARCINOGENS
Aristolochic acids come from the Aristolochia genus of plants,
which have been used for herbal remedies (e.g., birthwort, Dutchman’s pipe). The case of the carcinogen aristolochic acid, which
is identified as a Class 1 human carcinogen by the IARC (http://
monographs.iarc.fr/ENG/Monographs/vol100A/mono100A-23
.pdf), presents a powerful example of how the forces of epidemiology, classical chemical carcinogenesis, and genomics collaborate
to unravel the pathogenesis and prevention of a specific human
cancer.76 In the 1990s, epidemiologists independently reported on
three distinct unrelated population groups that developed nephrotoxicity (interstitial fibrosis) and an extraordinary high incidence
of urothelial cancer of the upper urinary track after exposure for
different reasons and in different parts of the world (Belgium, the
Balkans, and China). In Belgian women ingesting an extract from
plants of the Aristolochia species for weight reduction, which was
provided to them in a weight loss clinic, nearly 50% developed
this unusual syndrome. A similar clinical picture (so-called Balkan
endemic nephropathy) was reported for residents farming around
the Danube River and eating home-baked bread from wheat contaminated with seeds from Aristolochia weeds grown in the same
fields. In China, the Aristolochia herbs have been used for centuries in Chinese medicine and are prominently prescribed in
Taiwan, a nation with the highest incidence of urothelial cancer in
the world, as remedies for ailments of the heart, liver, snake bites,
arthritis, gout, childbirth, and others.
Common to all Aristolochia species are one of two major nitrophenanthrene carboxylic acid toxicants, namely, aristolochic acid
I and II (http://monographs.iarc.fr/ENG/Monographs/vol100A/

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

mono100A-23.pdf).77,78 The oral administration of aristolochic
acid to rodents is highly carcinogenic, producing predominantly
forestomach cancers and lymphomas, along with cancers of the
lung, kidney, and urothelium (http://monographs.iarc.fr/ENG/
Monographs/vol100A/mono100A-23.pdf). The major route of
excretion of aristolochic acid is through the kidneys. These clinical and experimental observations inspired further analyses of the
mechanism of action of these potent human carcinogens. Studies in intact mice and mice reconstituted with humanized P450
revealed that CYP1a and CYP2a were responsible for both the
activation and the detoxification of aristolochic acid I and II, and
that NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase produced the ultimate
reactive aristolactam I nitrenium species.78 The molecular action
of the ultimate carcinogen is remarkably specific, targeting purine
nucleotides in DNA to form DNA adducts and binding at the
exocyclic amino group of deoxyadenosine and deoxyguanosine
with a far greater affinity for dA over dG (Fig. 7.1). DNA adducts
from aristolochic acids have been found in both experimental
animals and humans. Furthermore, unlike any other human carcinogen, the predominant mutagenic outcome is an A:T transversion with a marked preference for the nontranscribed strand of
DNA, notably in the p53 gene.77,79 The A:T to T:A transversions

are extremely uncommon among the mutation spectrum in all
eukaryotes. These unique properties of aristolochic acid DNA adducts appear to elude DNA repair mechanisms that commonly
focus on transcribing DNA, resulting in persistent carcinogenDNA adducts in human tissues and surgical tumor specimens,
thus confirming the association of exposure with a biologic effect.80 In experimental models in mice where human p53 is substituted for the mouse gene, multiple sites on p53 are mutated,
almost all of which are those unusual A:T transversions.81 Modern
genomic techniques have unraveled other selective properties of
this unusual but potent human chemical carcinogen. Whole genome and exome sequencing of multiple aristolochic-associated
kidney cancers from patients confirmed the high frequency of
the unusual A:T to T:A transversion mutations. Furthermore, an
unusual pattern emerges where there is selectivity for mutations
at splice sites with a preferable consensus sequence of T/CAG.
Among the many mutations detected, certain targets stand out,
particularly in p53, MLL2, and other genes the products of which
function in regulating gene expression through higher chromosome order.82,83 This cancer story covers the gamut of all elements
of chemical carcinogenesis, and its illumination has opened a
door for cancer prevention.

COOH

O

NO2

O

R
AA-I 1 (R = OCH3)
AA-II 2 (R = H)

O
O
NH

O

O

O

O

NH
O

N
R

N
HO

N

N

HN
N
H

N

HN

R

HO

N

N

O

O
OH

OH

93

4 (R = OCH3)
6 (R = H)

3 (R = OCH3)
5 (R = H)
Figure 7.1 Aristolochic acid I and II form DNA adducts through the exocyclic amino group of deoxyadenosine and
deoxyguanosine. The deoxyadenosine adduct is highly favored. For more detailed analysis of the complete metabolic
profile, see Attaluri et al.79

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chapter 7 Chemical Factors

94

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

S E L E C T E D
The full reference list can be accessed at lwwhealthlibrary.com/oncology.
1. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences
of Smoking: 50 Years of Progress. A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta:
Author; 2014.
2. Colditz GA, Wei EK. Preventability of cancer: the relative contributions
of biologic and social and physical environmental determinants of cancer
mortality. Annu Rev Public Health 2012;33:137–156.
3. Lynch SM, Rebbeck TR. Bridging the gap between biologic, individual,
and macroenvironmental factors in cancer: a multilevel approach. Cancer
Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 2013;22:485–495.
4. Rahman N. Realizing the promise of cancer predisposition genes. Nature
2014;505:302–308.
7. Luch A. Nature and nurture—lessons from chemical carcinogenesis. Nat
Rev Cancer 2005;5:113–125.
8. Taddei ML, Giannoni E, Comito G, et al. Microenvironment and tumor cell
plasticity: an easy way out. Cancer Lett 2013;341:80–96.
9. Fessler E, Dijkgraaf FE, De Sousa E Melo, et al. Cancer stem cell dynamics in tumor progression and metastasis: is the microenvironment to blame?
Cancer Lett 2013;341:97–104.
10. Hanahan D, Coussens LM. Accessories to the crime: functions of cells
recruited to the tumor microenvironment. Cancer Cell 2012;21:309–322.
11. Irigaray P, Belpomme D. Basic properties and molecular mechanisms of
exogenous chemical carcinogens. Carcinogenesis 2010;31:135–148.
16. Baan R, Grosse Y, Straif K, et al. A review of human carcinogens—Part F:
chemical agents and related occupations. Lancet Oncol 2009;10:1143–1144.
19. Anttila S, Raunio H, Hakkola J. Cytochrome P450-mediated pulmonary
metabolism of carcinogens: regulation and cross-talk in lung carcinogenesis.
Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol 2011;44:583–590.
20. Pogribny IP, Beland FA. DNA methylome alterations in chemical carcinogenesis. Cancer Lett 2012 [Epub ahead of print].
21. Shrivastav N, Li D, Essigmann JM. Chemical biology of mutagenesis and DNA
repair: cellular responses to DNA alkylation. Carcinogenesis 2010;31:59–70.
22. Kew MC. Aflatoxins as a cause of hepatocellular carcinoma. J Gastrointestin
Liver Dis 2013;22:305–310.
27. Boverhof DR, Chamberlain MP, Elcombe CR, et al. Transgenic animal
models in toxicology: historical perspectives and future outlook. Toxicol Sci
2011;121:207–233.

R E F E R E N C E S
29. Hanahan D, Weinberg RA. Hallmarks of cancer: the next generation. Cell
2011;144:646–674.
36. Jiang XL, Gonzalez FJ, Yu AM. Drug-metabolizing enzyme, transporter,
and nuclear receptor genetically modified mouse models. Drug Metab Rev
2011;43:27–40.
37. Tuna M, Amos CI. Genomic sequencing in cancer. Cancer Lett 2013;340:
161–170.
38. MacConaill LE. Existing and emerging technologies for tumor genomic
profiling. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:1815–1824.
39. Watson IR, Takahashi K, Futreal PA, et al. Emerging patterns of somatic
mutations in cancer. Nat Rev Genet 2013;14:703–718.
41. Adamski J, Suhre K. Metabolomics platforms for genome wide association
studies—linking the genome to the metabolome. Curr Opin Biotechnol
2013;24:39–47.
42. Verma M, Khoury MJ, Ioannidis JP. Opportunities and challenges for selected
emerging technologies in cancer epidemiology: mitochondrial, epigenomic,
metabolomic, and telomerase profiling. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev
2013;22:189–200.
43. Edwards SL, Beesley J, French JD, et al. Beyond GWASs: illuminating the
dark road from association to function. Am J Hum Genet 2013;93:779–797.
44. Di LG, Garofalo M, Croce CM. MicroRNAs in cancer. Annu Rev Pathol
2014;9:287–314.
45. Cheetham SW, Gruhl F, Mattick JS, et al. Long noncoding RNAs and the
genetics of cancer. Br J Cancer 2013;108:2419–2425.
46. Izzotti A, Pulliero A. The effects of environmental chemical carcinogens on
the microRNA machinery. Int J Hyg Environ Health 2014 [Epub ahead of
print].
50. Schwabe RF, Jobin C. The microbiome and cancer. Nat Rev Cancer 2013;13:
800–812.
51. Wild CP, Scalbert A, Herceg Z. Measuring the exposome: a powerful
basis for evaluating environmental exposures and cancer risk. Environ Mol
Mutagen 2013;54:480–499.
52. Brennan K, Flanagan JM. Epigenetic epidemiology for cancer risk: harnessing germline epigenetic variation. Methods Mol Biol 2012;863:439–465.
76. Grollman AP. Aristolochic acid nephropathy: harbinger of a global iatrogenic
disease. Environ Mol Mutagen 2013;54:1–7.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

8

Physical Factors

INTRODUCTION
Ionizing radiation (IR) and ultraviolet (UV) light have challenged
the genetic integrity of all living organisms throughout time. By
inducing DNA damage and subsequent mutations, these physical
agents have promoted diversity through natural selection, and, as a
result, organisms from all kingdoms of life carry genes that encode
proteins that repair damaged DNA. In higher, multicellular organisms, many additional mechanisms of genome preservation have
evolved, such as cell cycle checkpoints and apoptosis. Despite the
many sophisticated mechanisms to safeguard the human genome
from the mutagenic actions of DNA-damaging agents, not all
exposed cells successfully restore the integrity of their DNA and
some cells may subsequently progress into malignant cancer cells.
Furthermore, through manmade activities, we are now exposed to
many new physical agents, such as radiofrequency and microwave
radiation, electromagnetic fields, asbestos, and nanoparticles, for
which evolution has not yet had time to deliver genome-preserving
response mechanisms. This chapter will highlight the molecular
mechanisms by which these physical agents affect cells and how
human exposure may lead to cancer.

IONIZING RADIATION
IR is defined as radiation that has sufficient energy to ionize molecules
by displacing electrons from atoms. IR can be electromagnetic, such
as x-rays and gamma rays, or can consist of particles, such as electrons,
protons, neutrons, alpha particles, or carbon ions. Natural sources of
IR make up about 80% of human exposure and medical sources make
up about 20%.1 The increased medical use of diagnostic x-rays and
computed tomography (CT) scanning procedures likely translates
JOUPIJHIFSJODJEFODFTPGDBODFS0GUIFOBUVSBMTPVSDFT SBEPOFYQPsure is the most significant exposure risk to humans. Importantly, with
better and more comprehensive screening techniques, the human
exposure to radon could be dramatically lowered.

(Fig. 8.1). The direct action of radiation, which is the dominant
mode of action of high LET radiation, is due to the deposition
of energy directly to the target molecule, resulting in one or
more ionization events. The indirect action of radiation is due to
the radiolysis of water molecules, which, after initial absorption
of radiation energy, become excited and generate different types
PGSBEJPMZTJTQSPEVDUTXIFSFUIFSFBDUJWFIZESPYZMSBEJDBM r0) 
can damage both DNA and proteins. About two-thirds of the damage induced by low LET radiation is due to the indirect action
of radiation. Since the hydroxyl radical is very reactive (half-life
is 10−9 seconds), it does not diffuse more than a few nanometers
after it is formed before it reacts with other molecules, and, thus,
only radicals formed in close proximity to the target molecule will
contribute to the damage of that target.2)PXFWFS CZDIFNJDBMSFcombination of the primary radiolysis products, hydrogen peroxide
)202) is formed, which in turn can produce hydroxyl radicals at a
later time through the Fenton reaction, involving free metals. BeDBVTF)202 is not very reactive, it can diffuse long distances away
from the initial site of energy deposition.
Radical scavengers normally present in cells, such as glutathione, can protect target molecules by reacting with the hydroxyl
radical (see Fig. 8.1). Even after the target molecule has been
hit and ionized, glutathione can contribute to cell protection by
donating a hydrogen atom to the radical, allowing the unpaired
electron present in the radical to pair up with the electron from
the hydrogen atom. This is considered the simplest of all types
of repair and is called chemical repair.3)PXFWFS JGPYZHFONPMecules are present, they will compete with scavenger molecules
for the ionized molecule, and if oxygen reacts with the ionized
target molecule before the hydrogen donation occurs, the damage
will be solidified as a peroxide, which is not amendable to chemical repair. Instead, this lesion will require enzymatic repair for the
restoration of DNA. This augmenting biologic effect of oxygen is
called the oxygen effect and is considered an important factor for
the effectiveness of radiation therapy.1

Damage to DNA

Mechanisms of Damage Induction
Linear Energy Transfer
The biologic effects of IR are unique in that the induced damage is
clustered due to the local deposition of energy in radiation tracks.
The distance between the depositions of energy is biologically very
relevant and unique to the energy and the type of radiation. The
term linear energy transfer (LET) denotes the energy transferred per
unit length of a track of radiation. Electromagnetic radiation, such as
x-rays or gamma rays, are sparsely ionizing and therefore classified as
low LET radiation, whereas particulate radiation, such as neutrons,
protons, and alpha particles, are examples of high LET radiation.1

Radiation Biochemistry
Radiation-induced damage to cellular target molecules, such
as DNA, proteins, and lipids, can be either direct or indirect

The direct and indirect effects of radiation induce more or less
JEFOUJDBMUZQFTPGMFTJPOTJO%/")PXFWFS UIFEFOTJUZPGMFTJPOT
induced in a stretch of DNA is higher for high LET radiation,
and this increased complexity is thought to complicate the repair
of these lesions. Radiation-induced lesions consist of more than
100 chemically distinct base lesions, such as the mutagenic lesions
thymine glycol and 8-hydroxyguanine.2,4,5 Furthermore, damage
to the sugar moiety in the backbone of DNA and some types of
base damage can result in single-strand breaks (SSB). Because the
energy deposition of radiation is clustered even for low LET radiation, it is possible that two individual strand breaks are formed in
close proximity on opposite strands, resulting in the formation of
a double-strand break (DSB). It has been estimated that 1 Gy of
ionizing radiation gives rise to about 40 DSBs, 1,000 SSBs, 1,000
base lesions, and 150 DNA-protein cross-links per cell.2 For a similarly lethal dose of UV light, about 400,000 lesions are required,
demonstrating that the lesions induced by IR are much more toxic

95

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Mats Ljungman

96

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

Indirect

IR

Direct




RSH

Radical
scavenging

H2O

IR

Chemical repair

O2

RSH

DNA

DNA damage

DNA repair

Oxygen effect

NHEJ

DNAO2

ATM

Mutations

DNA damage

Cancer

Chk2

Mitochondria
AIP1 BAX
p53

than lesions induced by UV light. It is believed that DSBs are the
critical lesions that lead to cell lethality following exposure to ionizing radiation.6

Damage to Proteins
Although proteins and lipids are subject to damage following
exposure to IR, the common belief is that DNA is the critical
target for the biologic effects of radiation. Indeed, abrogation of
DNA damage surveillance or repair processes in cells results in
the enhanced induction of mutations and decreased cell survival
following radiation.5 )PXFWFS  TUVEJFT PG SBEJBUJPOTFOTJUJWF BOE
radiation-resistant bacteria imply that mechanisms that suppress
protein damage may also play important roles in radiation resistance.7 Deinococcus radiodurans is a bacterium that can survive
radiation exposures of up to 17,000 Gy, and its extreme radioresistance has been linked to high intracellular levels of manganese,
which protect proteins from oxidation. The thought is that if a cell
can limit protein oxidation, then its enzymes will remain active,
and cellular functions such as DNA repair will be able to restore
the integrity of DNA even after severe DNA damage.8 It would
be interesting to explore whether the concentration of manganese
can be manipulated to sensitize tumor cells to radiation therapy.
Furthermore, because protein damage due to reactive oxygen speDJFT 304  BDDVNVMBUF EVSJOH UIF BHJOH QSPDFTT  DPVME TVQQMFments of manganese turn back the clock on aging?

Cellular Responses
DNA Repair
Ever since organisms started to utilize atmospheric oxygen for
metabolic respiration many millions of years ago, they have been
GPSDFE UP EFBM XJUI UIF DFMMVMBS EBNBHF JOEVDFE CZ 304 #BTF
excision repair (BER) evolved to remove many of the different
UZQFTPGPYJEBUJWFCBTFMFTJPOTBOE%/"44#TJOEVDFECZ304
)PXFWFS 304TFMEPNJOEVDF%4#TVOMFTTUIFHFOFSBUJPOPGIZdroxyl radicals is clustered near the DNA molecule. A more important source of intracellular generation of DSBs may instead be
the process of DNA replication, and it is possible that homologous
SFDPNCJOBUJPO )3 SFQBJSQSJNBSJMZFWPMWFEUPPWFSDPNF%4#T
sporadically induced during the replication process. The other
major pathway of DSB repair is the nonhomologous end-joining
/)&+ QBUIXBZ XIJDIJTVUJMJ[FECZJNNVOFDFMMTJOUIFQSPDFTT
PGBOUJCPEZHFOFSBUJPO"MUIPVHIUIF)3QBUIXBZIBTIJHIàEFMJUZ
due to the utilization of homologous sister chromatids to ensure
UIBU DPSSFDU %/" FOET BSF KPJOFE  UIF /)&+ QBUIXBZ MBDLT UIJT

CDC25C

CDC25A

CDK1 B
M

PIG3 FAS
NOXA DR5

Figure 8.1 Factors affecting the induction of DNA damage by ionizing
radiation (IR). Ionizing radiation can ionize DNA either by direct action or
by indirect action, in which radiation energy is absorbed by neighboring
molecules, such as water, leading to the generation of hydroxyl radicals
that attack DNA. Sulfur-containing cellular molecules (RSH), such as
glutathione, can scavenge hydroxyl radicals by hydrogen atom donations
and thereby protect the DNA from the indirect action of radiation.
Glutathione can also donate hydrogen atoms to ionized DNA, thereby
restoring the integrity of DNA in a process termed chemical repair. Oxygen
can compete with chemical repair in a process termed the oxygen effect,
resulting in the enhancement of the biologic effect of ionizing radiation
by the fixation of the initial DNA damage into DNA peroxides (DNAO2t 

Cell death

G2

p21

PUMA

CDK2 E
S

G1

Cell cycle arrest
Figure 8.2 Cellular responses to ionizing radiation. Ionizing radiation
induces predominantly base lesions and single- and double-strand
breaks. Base lesions and single-strand breaks are repaired by base
excision repair (BER), whereas double-strand breaks are repaired by
nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ) and homologous recombination (HR).
If DNA lesions are misrepaired by NHEJ or not repaired at all before cells
enter S phase or mitosis, genomic instability is manifested as mutations
or chromosome aberrations that promote carcinogenesis. In order for
cells to assist DNA repair and safeguard against genetic instability and
cancer, cells can induce cell cycle arrest or apoptosis. The ATM kinase
is an early responder to DNA damage induced by ionizing radiation that
activates the cell cycle checkpoint kinase Chk2 and the tumor suppressor
p53. Chk2 inactivates the CDC25A and CDC25C phosphatases that
are critical in promoting cell cycle progression by activating the cyclindependent kinases CDK2 or CDK1 and thereby arresting the cells at
the G1/S or G2/M checkpoints. In addition, p53 can arrest cells at the
G1/S checkpoint by inducing the CDK inhibitor p21. p53 also plays a role
in promoting apoptosis by inducing a number of proapoptotic proteins
as well as translocating to mitochondria where it inhibits the actions of
antiapoptotic factors. AIP1, actin interacting protein 1; BAX, bcl-2-like
protein; PIG3, p53-inducible gene 3.

control mechanism and therefore occasionally rejoins ends incorSFDUMZ5IVT UIF/)&+QBUIXBZNBZDPOUSJCVUFUPUIFHFOFSBUJPO
PGNVUBUJPOTGPMMPXJOHSBEJBUJPO 'JH )PXFWFS /)&+JTUIF
only mechanism available for DSB repair in postmitotic cells and
cells in the G1 phase of the cell cycle because no sister chromatids
BSFBWBJMBCMFJOUIFTFDFMMTUPTVQQPSU)3SFQBJS

Ataxia-Telangiectasia Mutated and Cell
Cycle Checkpoints
Due to the enormous task of replicating the whole genome during the S phase and segregating the chromosomes during mitosis,
proliferating cells are generally much more vulnerable to radiation than stationary cells. To prevent cells with damaged DNA
from entering into these critical stages of the cell cycle, cells can
activate cell cycle checkpoints (see Fig. 8.2). The major sensor of
radiation-induced damage in cells is the ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM) kinase, which, following activation, can phosphorylate
more than 700 proteins in cells.9 Two ATM substrates, p53 and
Chk2, are critical for the activation of cell cycle arrests at multiple
sites in the cell cycle.10,11 The kinase p53 regulates the gene expression of specific genes such as p21, which inhibits cyclin-dependent
kinase (CDK)2- and CDK4-mediated phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma protein, resulting in a block in the progression from
the G1 phase to the S phase of the cell cycle.12,13 The Chk2 kinase
promotes checkpoint activation in G1 by targeting the cell division
cycle 25 homolog A (CDC25A) phosphatase14 and, in G2/M, by targeting the CDC25C phosphatase.15 The activation of a cell cycle
arrest following DNA damage provides the cell with additional
time to repair the DNA before entering critical cell cycle stages,

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

which promotes genetic stability. Loss or defects in the ATM or p53
genes result in abrogation of radiation-induced cell cycle checkpoints, which manifests itself as the highly cancer-prone human
syndromes ataxia telangiectasia16 or Li-Fraumeni,17 respectively.

Radiation-Induced Cell Death
Terminally differentiated and stationary cells, such as kidney, lung,
brain, muscle, and liver cells, are generally more resistant to radiation-induced killing than are cells with a high turnover rate, such
BTEJGGFSFOUFQJUIFMJBMDFMMT TQFSNBUPHPOJB BOEIBJSGPMMJDMFT)PXever, the spleen and thymus, which consist of mostly nondividing
cells, are among the most radiosensitive tissues, implying that the
rate of cell proliferation is not the sole determiner of the radiation
sensitivity of a tissue. An important factor regulating the induction of programmed cell death (apoptosis) in tissues is the tumor
suppressor p53.18 The p53 protein is activated in cells following
exposure to IR by the ATM kinase (see Fig. 8.2). When activated,
it regulates the expression of multiple genes that have roles in
DNA repair, cell cycle arrest, and apoptosis. p53 can also localize
to mitochondria following irradiation, where it triggers apoptosis
through the inactivation of antiapoptotic regulatory proteins.19 Not
all tissues induce the p53 response to the same degree after similar
doses of IR, nor do they activate downstream pathways, such as
DNA repair, cell cycle arrest, and apoptosis, in a similar way. For
example, thymocytes have an intrinsic setting that favors apoptosis
over cell cycle arrest following IR, whereas fibroblasts rarely induce apoptosis, but instead activate a strong and lasting cell cycle
arrest.18
IR can induce cell death in tissues by many different mechanisms. Apoptosis can occur rapidly in a p53-dependent manner or
later in a p53-independent manner. This later wave of radiationinduced apoptosis is often initiated by mitotic catastrophe, which
occurs as a result of complications during chromosome segregation. Cell death induced by IR may in some cases be associated
with autophagy, also called autophagocytosis, in which cells degrade cellular components via the lysosomal machinery. Whether
autophagy is a programmed cell death or occurs in parallel with
cell death is not clear. Interestingly, for some cell types, autophagy has been shown to actually protect the cells from radiationinduced death. Finally, tissue can undergo necrotic cell death
following exposure to IR. Necrosis is a clinical problem following
radiation therapy that can occur in normal tissues many months
after treatment and can contribute to the inflammatory response.

Cancer Risks
It is clear from epidemiologic studies of radiation workers and
atomic bomb and Chernobyl victims that IR can induce cancer.20
5XFOUZ ZFBST BGUFS UIF BUPNJD CPNC FYQMPTJPOT JO +BQBO EVSJOH
World War II, significant increases in the incidence of thyroid canDFSBOEMFVLFNJBXFSFPCTFSWFE)PXFWFS JUUPPLBMNPTUZFBST
before solid tumors appeared in the population as a result of radiation exposure from the atomic bombs.21 The incidences of solid tumors, such as breast, ovary, bladder, lung, and colon cancers, were
estimated to have increased by a factor of 2 in the exposed group
during this time period. The epidemiology studies following the
nuclear power plant disaster in Chernobyl showed a clear increase
in thyroid cancer as early as 4 years after the accident.22 Young
children were the most vulnerable to radiation exposure, with
1-year-old children being 237-fold more susceptible to thyroid cancer than the control group, while 10-year-old children were found
to be sixfold more susceptible to thyroid cancer. Many of the thyroid cancers that developed following the Chernobyl disaster could
have been prevented if the population had not consumed locally
produced milk that was contaminated with radioactive iodine.
The molecular signatures of radiation-induced tumors are
complex but involve point mutations that could lead to the activation of the RAS oncogene or inactivation of the tumor suppressor

97

gene p53. Furthermore, IR induces DNA DSBs that may be unGBJUIGVMMZSFQBJSFECZUIF/)&+QBUIXBZ MFBEJOHUPDISPNPTPNF
SFBSSBOHFNFOUT0OFTVDISFBSSBOHFNFOUGPVOEJOUPPG
the thyroid cancers examined following the Chernobyl accident
involved the receptor tyrosine kinase c-RET, which promotes cell
growth when activated.22 Furthermore, a great majority of the thyroid cancers found in the exposed children harbored kinase fusion
oncogenes affecting the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)
signaling pathway.23
The correlation between high exposure to IR and cancer following the atomic bomb explosions and the Chernobyl accident
is clear. What about the cancer risk following lower radiation
exposures occurring in daily life? There are four theoretical risk
models of radiation-induced cancer to consider. First, the linear,
no threshold (LNT) model suggests that the induction of cancer is
directly proportional to the dose of radiation, even at low doses of
exposure. Second, the sublinear or threshold model suggests that
below a certain threshold dose the risk of radiation-induced cancers is negligible. At these lower doses of radiation exposure, the
DNA damage surveillance and repair mechanisms are thought to
be fully capable of safeguarding the DNA to avoid the induction
of mutations and cancer. Third, the supralinear or stealth model
suggests that doses below a certain threshold or radiation with
sufficiently low dose rates may not trigger the activation of DNA
damage surveillance and repair mechanisms, resulting in suboptimal activation of cell cycle checkpoints and repair. This would
be expected to lead to a higher rate of mutations and cancers than
predicted by the LNT model, but may be balanced by a higher
incident of cell death. Fourth, the linear-quadratic model suggest
that radiation effects at low doses are due to a single track of radiation hitting multiple targets, resulting in a linear induction rate,
whereas at higher doses, multiple radiation tracks hit multiple cellular targets, resulting in a quadratic induction rate.
The Biological Effects of Ionizing Radiation (BEIR) VII report, released by the Committee on Biological Effects of Ionizing
Radiation of the National Academy of Sciences and commissioned
by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), is a review of
published data regarding human health and cancer risks from exposure to low levels of IR. Although this topic is controversial and
not fully settled, the BIER VII report favored the LNT model.24
Thus, the “official” view is that no level of radiation is safe; therefore, a careful consideration of risks versus benefits is necessary to
ensure that the general population only receives radiation doses
as low as reasonably achievable. Furthermore, the BIER VII committee concluded that the heritable effects of radiation were not
evident in the published data, indicating that an individual is not
likely to develop cancer due to radiation exposure of his or her
parents.
The largest source of radiation exposure to the population is
radon, which is a natural radioactive gas formed as a decay product
of radium in the decay chain of uranium. Radon gas can accumulate to high levels in poorly ventilated basements in houses built
on rock containing uranium. The major risk with radon is that
some of its radioactive decay products can attach to dust particles
that accumulate in the lungs, leading to a continuous exposure of
the lung tissues to high LET alpha particles. Due to this radiation
exposure, the EPA claims that radon is the second leading cause
of lung cancer in the United States. Another important source
of human exposure to IR is medical x-ray devices, and there is a
growing concern about the dramatically increased use of whole
body CT scans for diagnostic purposes. For a typical CT scan, a
patient will receive about 100-fold more radiation than from a typical mammogram.24 It is recommended that the use of whole body
CT scans for children be very restricted due to the elevated risk of
developing radiation-induced cancer for this age group.
Cancer patients who receive radiation therapy are at risk of
developing secondary tumors induced by the radiation therapy
treatment.1 This is particularly a concern for young patients
since (1) children are more prone to radiation-induced cancer,

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chapter 8 Physical Factors

98

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

(2) children have a relatively good chance of surviving the primary cancer and would have long life expectancies so a secondary tumor would have plenty of time to develop, and (3) many
childhood cancers are promoted by genetic defects in DNA damage response pathways, making these patients highly prone to the
genotoxic effects of radiation and subsequent secondary cancers.
The most sensitive tissues for the development of secondary cancer have been found to be bone marrow (leukemia), the thyroid,
breast, and lung.1

UV
DNA damage
Blocked replication
Lesion bypass
Cell death

Blocked transcription
ATR

Chk1

Mutations

ULTRAVIOLET LIGHT

DNA repair

Cell death
XPC

p53

p53 R2

Depending on the wavelength, UV light is categorized into UVA
(320 to 400 nm), UVB (290 to 320 nm), and UVC (240 to 290 nm)
radiation. Most of the UVC light emitted from the sun is absorbed
by the ozone layer in the atmosphere, and, thus, living organisms
are mostly exposed to UVA and UVB irradiation.

Cancer

DDB

CDC25C CDC25A p21
CDK1 B
M

G2

CDK2 E
S

G1

Cell cycle arrest

Mechanisms of Damage Induction

Figure 8.3 Cellular responses to ultraviolet (UV) light–induced DNA

UVC light is more damaging to DNA than UVA and UVB because the absorption maximum of DNA is around 260 nm. UVB
and UVC induce predominantly pyrimidine dimers and 6-4 photoproducts, which consist of covalent ring structures that link two
adjacent pyrimidines on the same DNA strand.5 The formation of
these lesions results in the bending of the DNA helix, resulting in
the interference with both DNA and RNA synthesis. UVA light
does not induce pyrimidine dimers or 6-4 photoproducts but can
JOEVDF 304  XIJDI JO UVSO DBO GPSN 44#T BOE CBTF MFTJPOT JO
DNA of exposed cells.

Cellular Responses
DNA Repair
The nucleotide excision repair (NER) pathway removes pyrimidine dimers and 6-4 photoproducts from cellular DNA.5 This pathway involves proteins that recognize the DNA lesions, nucleases
that excise the DNA strand that contains the lesion, a DNA polymerase that synthesizes new DNA to fill the gap, and a DNA ligase
that joins the backbone in the newly synthesized strand. Genetic
defects in the NER pathway result in the human syndrome xeroderma pigmentosum, with individuals more than 1,000-fold more
prone to sun-induced skin cancer than normal individuals. In addition, human polymorphisms in certain NER genes are thought
to predispose individuals to cancers such as lung cancer, nonmelanoma skin cancer, head and neck cancer, and bladder cancer,
indicating that NER is responsible for safeguarding the genome
against many types of DNA adducts in addition to UV-induced
lesions.5
UV-induced lesions formed in the transcribed strand of active
genes block the elongation of RNA polymerase II, and if a cell
does not restore transcription within a certain time frame, it may
undergo apoptosis (Fig. 8.3).25,26 To rapidly restore RNA synthesis and avoid cell death, NER enzymes are recruited to the sites
of blocked RNA polymerase II and the lesions are removed in a
process called transcription-coupled repair (TCR).27 Individuals
with Cockayne syndrome (CS), trichothiodystrophy, or the UVsensitive syndrome, are unable to utilize the TCR pathway following UV irradiation.5 Cells from these individuals do not recover
RNA synthesis following UV irradiation and are therefore very
prone to UV-induced apoptosis. Interestingly, despite a clear DNA
repair defect, these individuals are not predisposed to UV-induced
skin cancer. It is thought that the inability of CS cells to remove
the toxic lesions that block transcription following UV irradiation
results in the suppression of tumorigenesis by the elimination of
EBNBHFE DFMMT CZ BQPQUPTJT )PXFWFS  XIJMF QSPUFDUJOH BHBJOTU

damage. UV light predominantly induces bulky DNA lesions that interfere
with the processes of DNA replication and transcription. These lesions are
removed from the global genome by global genomic nucleotide excision
repair (GG-NER) and from transcribed DNA strands by transcriptioncoupled NER (TC-NER). Lesions blocking replication can be bypassed by
exchanging processive DNA polymerases with less processive translesion
DNA polymerases. While these polymerases allow cells to continue DNA
synthesis and progress through the cell cycle, they have low fidelity,
resulting in the potential induction of mutations promoting UV-induced
carcinogenesis. To suppress mutations and support DNA repair efforts,
the ataxia-telangiectasia and Rad3-related (ATR) kinase is activated in
response to blocked replication or transcription. ATR activates the cell
cycle checkpoint kinase Chk1, which, similar to Chk2, arrests cells in the
G1/S and G2/M checkpoints by inhibiting CDC25A and CDC25C. ATR also
activates p53, promoting G1/S checkpoint activation via the induction of
the Cdk-inhibitor p21. p53 also stimulates GG-NER by the transactivation
of various NER genes and can promote apoptosis by the induction of
proapoptotic factors and translocation to mitochondria. Finally, apoptosis
is induced if cells do not recover transcription in a certain time frame,
potentially due to the loss of survival factors or complications in the
S phase when replication encounters stall the transcription complexes.

tumorigenesis, the elevated level of apoptosis in these cells leads to
increased cell loss, which in turn may lead to neurologic degeneration.25,28 Persistent transcription-blocking lesions in the genome
have also been linked to aging.29–31

Translesion DNA Synthesis
Proliferating skin cells are very vulnerable to UV light because UV
lesions block DNA replication (see Fig. 8.3). Cells that have entered the S phase and have initiated DNA synthesis have no choice
but to finish replicating the whole genome or they will die. If DNA
repair enzymes are not able to remove the blocking lesions from
the template, the processive DNA polymerases may be exchanged
for other, less processive DNA polymerases that can bypass the
lesions. This is part of a “tolerance” mechanism, which allows
cells to complete replication and eventually divide.5)PXFWFS UIF
translesion DNA polymerases do not have the same fidelity as the
processive DNA polymerases; thus, mutations may occur. This is
thought to be a major pathway by which UV light induces mutagenesis and, subsequently, cancer (see Fig. 8.3).

ATM and Rad3-Related Mediated Cell Cycle
Checkpoints
In addition to utilizing the NER and BER pathways to repair
UV-induced DNA damage, proliferating cells activate cell cycle
checkpoints to allow more time for repair before entering critical

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 8 Physical Factors

Activation of Cell Membrane Receptors
In addition to triggering cellular stress responses by inducing DNA
damage, UV light can directly induce membrane receptor signaling by receptor phosphorylation. This is thought to be due to the
direct UV-mediated inhibition of protein-tyrosine phosphatases
that regulate the phosphorylation levels of various membrane receptors.34 In addition, membrane receptors may physically aggregate following UV irradiation, leading to the activation of signal
transduction pathways that regulate cell growth35 or apoptosis.36

scenario promotes proliferation without the opposition of the cell
cycle inhibitors p53 and p16.

Melanoma
Melanoma arises from mutations in epidermal melanocytes and is
the most dangerous form of skin cancer because it has the highest
propensity to metastasize (see Chapter 93). It is formed in both
sun-exposed and shielded areas of the skin; therefore, the role of
UV light as the major carcinogen in melanoma has been controversial.41 Defects in the NER pathway do not seem to predispose
the development of melanoma, suggesting that pyrimidine dimers
or 6-4 photoproducts induced by UVB are not the initiators of
NFMBOPNBDBSDJOPHFOFTJT*OTUFBE 304JOEVDFECZ67"NBZCF
responsible for the development of melanoma.41)PXFWFS BTUVEZ
using next-generation sequencing techniques to catalog all mutations in a melanoma cell line found a mutational spectrum of the
over 33,000 mutations detected that strongly indicated that pyrimidine dimers and 6-4 photoproducts are the major mutagenic lesions in melanoma, whereas a subset of mutations may be induced
CZ30444 The incidence of mutations in the p16 and ARF genes
is high, whereas p53 and RAS mutations are fairly uncommon in
melanoma (see Chapter 93).

Cell Death
UV light effectively induces apoptosis in skin cells. The mechanism by which UV light induces cell death is not fully understood,
but failure to adequately resume RNA synthesis following UV light
exposure is strongly linked to apoptosis (see Fig. 8.3).25 Many potential mechanisms of how blocked transcription results in apoptosis have been suggested, such as a physical clash during the
S phase between elongating replication machineries and transcription complexes stalled at UV lesions. Another possible mechanism
involves the preferential loss of survival factors coded by highly
unstable mRNAs.37 The induction of p53 may also contribute to
UV-induced apoptosis,38 although p53 appears to protect human
fibroblasts39 and keratinocytes40 from UV-induced apoptosis. Although complications induced by DNA damage may be the predominant mechanism by which cells die following UV irradiation,
UV light may induce apoptosis in certain cell types by directly proNPUJOHUIFQIZTJDBMBHHSFHBUJPOPGUIFEFBUISFDFQUPS'BT"1036

Cancer Risks
The incidence of sun-induced skin cancer, especially melanoma,
is on the increase due to higher rates of sun exposure in the general
population. The link between UV light exposure and skin cancer
is very strong, but the role of UV light in the etiology of nonmelanoma and melanoma skin cancer differs. Although the risk of nonmelanoma cancer relates to the cumulative lifetime exposure to
UV light, the risk of contracting melanoma appears to be linked to
high sunlight exposure during childhood.41 What makes UV light
such a potent carcinogen is that it can initiate carcinogenesis by
inducing DNA lesions as well as suppressing the immune system,
resulting in a greater probability that initiated cells will survive and
grow into tumors.42,43

Nonmelanoma Skin Cancer
Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC)
are the two most common skin cancer types. BCC and SCC
occur predominantly in sun-exposed areas of the skin, but there
are examples of these cancers forming in nonexposed areas as well
(see Chapter 92). The tumor suppressor genes p53 and p16 are
frequently inactivated in BCC and SCC, while the hedgehogsignaling pathway is activated primarily by mutations to the patched
gene (percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography [PTCH]). This

Photoimmunosuppression
Studies of transplantation of mouse skin cancers into syngeneic
mice revealed that prior UVB irradiation of recipient mice promoted tumor growth, whereas transplantation into naïve nonirradiated mice led to rejection.43 These studies established that UV
light has local immunosuppressing ability, and subsequent studies found that UV light preferentially depletes Langerhans cells
from irradiated skin.42 Langerhans cells play an important role in
the immune response by presenting antigens to the immune cells,
and, thus, depletion of these cells leads to local immunosuppression. In addition to local immunosuppression, UV light has been
shown to promote systemic immunosuppression.45 This response
is complex, but it is known that UV-induced DNA lesions in skin
cells contribute to the systemic immunosuppression response.46
The secretion of the immunosuppressing cytokine interleukin
(IL)-10 from irradiated keratinocytes as well as UV-induced structural alteration of the epidermal chromophore urocanic acid may
mediate the long-range immunosuppressive effects of UV light.42,45

RADIOFREQUENCY AND MICROWAVE
RADIATION
Radiofrequency radiation (RFR) is electromagnetic radiation in
UIF GSFRVFODZ SBOHF  L)[ UP  .)[  XIFSFBT NJDSPXBWF SBEJBUJPO .3 JTJOUIFGSFRVFODZSBOHFCFUXFFO.)[UP
()[3'3BOE.3EPOPUIBWFTVGàDJFOUFOFSHJFTUPDBVTFJPOizations in target tissues. Rather, the radiation energy is converted
into heat as the radiation energy is absorbed. Sources of radiofrequency and microwave radiation include mobile phones, radio
transmitters of wireless communication, radars, medical devices,
and kitchen appliances.

Mechanism of Damage Induction
Because human exposure to RFR has increased dramatically in
recent years, it is important to know whether this type of radiation
gives rise to genotoxic damage. Although there are many studies
TIPXJOH UIBU 3'3 DBO JOEVDF 304  MFBEJOH UP HFOFUJD EBNBHF
in cell culture systems, other studies have generated conflicting
results.470OFDPOGPVOEJOHGBDUPSXIFOBTTFTTJOHUIFHFOPUPYJDFGfect of RFR, and especially MR, is the heating effect that occurs

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

parts of the cell cycle, such as the S phase and mitosis. The ATM
and Rad3-related (ATR) kinase is activated following UV irradiation by blocked replication or transcription (see Fig. 8.3).32 ATR
phosphorylates a large number of proteins, many of which are the
same as those phosphorylated by ATM after exposure to ionizing
radiation.9 Two important substrates of ATR are p53 and Chk1,
which are critical in promoting cell cycle arrest. When induced
by ATR, p53 transactivates the gene that encodes the cell cycle
inhibitor p21, leading to the arrest of cells in the G1 phase of the
cell cycle, while Chk1 phosphorylates the CDK-activating phosphatases CDC25A and CDC25C, which targets them for degradation, resulting in an S-phase or G2-phase arrest (see Fig. 8.3).33

99

100

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

in the tissue when the radiation energy is absorbed. A recent study
controlling for the potential heating effect of exposure found that
3'3JOEVDFT304BOE%/"EBNBHFJOIVNBOTQFSNBUP[PBJO
vitro, which is an alarming finding considering the potential hereditary implications.48 It has been suggested that MR may affect
the folding of proteins in cells that promote new protein synthesis.49 Furthermore, exposure of cells to MR has been shown to
lead to the phosphorylation of numerous cellular proteins largely
through the activation of the p38/MAPK stress response pathway.50
)PXFWFS UIFCJPMPHJDDPOTFRVFODFTPGUIFTFDFMMVMBSDIBOHFTBSF
not clear. Epidemiology studies that monitored the genetic effects
in individuals exposed to high levels of RF have revealed evidence
of increased induction of chromosome aberrations in lymphocytes.51 )PXFWFS  UIFSF JT B MFWFM PG VODFSUBJOUZ JO UIFTF TUVEJFT
about exposure levels, making it difficult to come to meaningful
conclusions.

Cancer Risks
Because the population’s exposure to RFR and MR has dramatically increased in recent years, it is of great importance to assess the
potential cancer risks of these types of radiation so that appropriate
exposure limits can be implemented. A number of studies have
focused on the potential cancer risks from mobile phone usage,
and some of these studies indicate that long-term mobile phone
usage may be associated with increased risks of developing brain
UVNPST TFF UIF GPMMPXJOH  0UIFS FQJEFNJPMPHJD TUVEJFT PG DBOcer incidences in populations living near radio towers or mobile
phone base stations are inconclusive. Some studies have shown a
connection between proximity to mobile phone base stations and
increased cancer incidence,52 whereas another study found no association between exposure to RFR from mobile phone base stations and early childhood cancers.53

ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELDS
An electromagnetic field (EMF) is a physical field produced by
electrically charged objects that can affect other charged objects in
the field. Typical sources of EMFs are electric power lines, electrical devices, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) machines.

Mechanisms of Damage Induction
A low frequency EMF does not transmit energy high enough to
break chemical bonds; therefore, it is not thought to directly damage DNA or proteins in cells. The data obtained from studies to
assess the potential genotoxic effects of EMF do not provide a clear
conclusion. Some of the results obtained in cell culture studies
suggest a harmful effect of EMFs, but the concerns are that these
effects may be related to heat production induced by EMFs rather
than from the magnetic field itself. A recent in vitro study detected
DNA strand breaks in cells exposed to EMFs, but this induction
XBTUIPVHIUUPOPUCFUIFSFTVMUPG304QSPEVDUJPO CVUSBUIFSEVF
to indirect effects through interference with DNA replication and
induction of apoptosis in a subset of cells.54 A study using an MRI
found no evidence of an induced formation of DNA DSBs in cell
cultures.55 EMFs have been shown to induce nongenotoxic effects
in cells, such as interference with cellular signaling pathways,56
which could contribute to neurodegeneration.57

Cancer Risks
Studies with rodents have largely failed to detect an association
between exposure to EMFs and cancer. This is also true for numerous epidemiology studies, with the only exception being the association between EMF exposure and childhood leukemia where

children exposed to doses of 0.4 mcT or above may have about
a twofold increased risk of developing leukemia.58,59 There is no
strong link between EMF exposure and increased risks of contracting adult leukemia, brain tumors, or breast cancer.60,61 Furthermore, a study investigating whether EMF exposure was associated
with heritable effects found no correlation between parental exposure and childhood cancer.62

Potential Cancer Risks from Mobile
Phone Usage
Mobile phones emit RFR and generate EMFs. The biggest health
concern with mobile phone usage is its potential role in the development of brain tumors. During mobile phone use, the brain tissue is exposed to doses, giving peak specific absorption rates (SAR)
of 4 to 8 W/kg. At these intensities, the induction of DNA damage has been detected in laboratory studies.63 The current epidemiologic data are largely inconclusive on the association between
mobile phone usage and brain tumor incidence. Meta-analysis
studies of populations who had used mobile phones for more than
10 years concluded that mobile phone usage was associated with
an elevated risk for brain tumors, such as acoustic neuroma and
glioma cancer.64–66 In contrast, other large prospective studies did
not observe a correlation between mobile phone usage and incidences of glioma, meningioma, or non–central nervous system
(CNS) cancers.67,68 It is important to point out that, generally, it
takes 30 to 40 years for brain tumors to develop, and because mobile phones have only been in general use for about 15 years, there
has not been sufficient time to fully evaluate the brain cancer risks
of mobile phone usage.

ASBESTOS
Asbestos is a class of naturally occurring silicate minerals that
have been widely used in building materials for its heat, sound,
and electrical insulating qualities. Asbestos becomes a serious
health hazard if the fibers are inhaled over a long period of time,
and these health effects are increased dramatically if the exposed
individual is a smoker. It was first reported in 1935 that asbestos
might be an occupational health hazard that could induce cancer.69,70)PXFWFS JUXBTOPUVOUJMUIBUUIF*OUFSOBUJPOBM-BCPS
0SHBOJ[BUJPOSFDPNNFOEFECBOOJOHBTCFTUPT71 The use of asbestos products peaked in the 1970s, yet remains a major health hazard in many places around the world today.

Mechanisms of Damage Induction
"TCFTUPTàCFSTDBOFOUFSDFMMTBOEJOEVDF304 FTQFDJBMMZJGUIFZ
contain high levels of iron.72*OBEEJUJPO 304DBOCFHFOFSBUFE
by “frustrated” phagocytosis, and this in turn can lead to the release of proinflammatory cytokines with subsequent inflammation
PGUIFUJTTVF304IBWFCFFOJNQMJDBUFEUPPSJHJOBUFGSPNBGGFDUFE
mitochondria leading to induction of SSBs and base damage, such
as 8-hydroxyguanine in DNA.73 Furthermore, if not successfully
repaired, asbestos-induced DNA damage has been shown to result
in chromosome aberrations, micronuclei formation, and increased
rates of sister chromatid exchanges.74

Cellular and Tissue Responses
"TCFTUPTJOEVDFE304DBVTFCBTFMFTJPOTBOE%/"TUSBOECSFBLT 
which require base excision repair for the restoration of DNA and
for minimizing mutagenesis. In addition to DNA repair, a number of cellular signaling pathways are activated by asbestos. These
include the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and the
MAPK pathway, leading to the activation of nuclear factor kappa B

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

101

(NF-κB) and transcription factor AP-1.72,74 Activation of the NF-κB
pathway leads to the induction of proinflammatory genes such as
tumor necrosis factor (TNF), IL-6, IL-8, and proliferation-promoting genes such as c-Myc, leading to inflammation and increased
cell proliferation. Asbestos exposure also stimulates the expression
of the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β), which, in turn,
stimulates fibrogenesis in exposed tissues.74

compound is different from bulk chemistry of that compound because of the high percentage of atoms at the surface of the particle.
The production of nanoparticles has increased dramatically in recent years, and they are found in many industrial and consumer
products such as paint, cosmetics, and sunscreens. They also have
many potential medical applications, such as delivery vehicles for
specific drugs to specific target tissues or tumors.

Cancer Risks

Mechanisms of DNA Damage Induction

Lung Cancer

Many of the cellular effects of nanoparticles are similar to the efGFDUTFYFSUFECZBTCFTUPT TVDIBTUIFHFOFSBUJPOPG304BOEJOflammation.72 Nanoparticles have been shown to induce oxidative
DNA damage, such as DNA strand breaks and 8-hydroxyguanine
lesions both in cell culture76, 77 and in vivo.78 Nanoparticleinduced DNA lesions are manifested as histone γ)"9OVDMFBS
foci, chromosome deletions, and micronuclei.

Epidemiologic studies have found a strong link between asbestos
exposure and lung cancer.74 It has been estimated that about 5%
to 7% of all lung cancers are attributable to asbestos exposure, and
asbestos and tobacco smoking act in synergy to induce lung cancer. Mutational spectra due to 8-hydroxyguanine lesions formed
CZ304DBOCFMJOLFEUPBTCFTUPTFYQPTVSF BOEQPJOUNVUBUJPOT
in the tumor suppressor genes p53 and p16/INK4A and in the
KRAS oncogene have been found in tumors from asbestos-exposed
individuals.

Mesothelioma
After being taken up by lung tissues, asbestos fibers can translocate into the pleura, the body cavity that surrounds the lungs.
The pleura are covered with a protective lining, the mesothelium,
which consists of squamouslike epithelial cells. Mesothelial cells
DBOJOUFSOBMJ[FBTCFTUPTàCFST SFTVMUJOHJOUIFJOEVDUJPOPG304
and inflammatory responses, subsequently leading to the initiation
and progression of malignant mesothelioma.75 Asbestos is considered one of the major causes of malignant mesothelioma, and
frequent mutations are found in the p16/INK4A and NF2 genes,
whereas p53 mutations are fairly rare.

NANOPARTICLES
Nanoparticles are defined as ultrafine particles of the size range
1 to 100 nm in diameter. Nanoparticle chemistry of a certain

S E L E C T E D
The full reference list can be accessed at lwwhealthlibrary.com/oncology.
 )BMM& (JBDDJB"Radiobiology for the Radiologist. Philadelphia: Lippincott
Williams & Wilkins; 2012.
  8BSE+'%/"EBNBHFQSPEVDFECZJPOJ[JOHSBEJBUJPOJONBNNBMJBODFMMT
identities, mechanisms of formation, and repairability. Prog Nucleic Acid Res
Mol Biol 1988;35:95–125.
  )VUDIJOTPO ' $IFNJDBM DIBOHFT JOEVDFE JO %/" CZ JPOJ[JOH SBEJBUJPO
Prog Nucleic Acid Res Mol Biol 1985;32:115–154.
5. Friedberg E, Walker G, Siede W, et al. DNA Repair and Mutagenesis.
2nd ed. Washington, D.C.: ASM Press; 2006.
8. Krisko A, Radman M. Biology of extreme radiation resistance: the way of
Deinococcus radiodurans. Cold Spring Harb Perspect Biol 2013;5.
9. Matsuoka S, Ballif BA, Smogorzewska A, et al. ATM and ATR substrate analysis reveals extensive protein networks responsive to DNA damage. Science
2007;316:1160–1166.
  ,BTUBO. 0OZFLXFSF0 4JESBOTLZ% FUBM1BSUJDJQBUJPOPGQQSPUFJOJO
the cellular response to DNA damage. Cancer Res 1991;51:6304–6311.
13. El-Deiry W, Tokino T, Velculescu V, et al. WAF1, a potential mediater of p53
tumor suppression. Cell 1993;75:817–825.
16. Savitsky K, Bar-Shira A, Gilad S, et al. A single ataxia telangiectasia gene with
a product similar to PI-3 kinase. Science 1995;268:1749–1753.
17. Srivastava S, Zou ZQ, Pirollo K, et al. Germ-line transmission of a mutated p53 gene in a cancer-prone family with Li-Fraumeni syndrome.
Nature.1990;348:747–749.
18. Gudkov AV, Komarova EA. The role of p53 in determining sensitivity to radiotherapy. Nat Rev Cancer 2003;3:117–129.
21. Thompson DE, Mabuchi K, Ron E, et al. Cancer incidence in atomic bomb
survivors. Part II: Solid tumors, 1958–1987. Radiat Res 1994;137:S17–67.


Cellular Responses
/BOPQBSUJDMFT JOEVDF 304 FJUIFS EJSFDUMZ PS JOEJSFDUMZ  SFTVMUing in DNA lesions, such as 8-hydroxyguanine–base damage and
DNA strand breaks. These lesions are repaired by the base exciTJPOSFQBJS5IFQIPTQIPSZMBUJPOPGIJTUPOF)"9IBTCFFOTIPXO
to occur following exposure of cells to nanoparticles, suggesting
that the DNA lesions trigger the activation of ATM or ATR stress
kinases.79 Nanoparticles have also been found to affect the immune system80 and can induce the release of the proinflammatory
cytokine TNF-α from cells.

Cancer Risks
Some nanoparticles, such as titanium dioxide, which is used
as pigments in paint, have been classified by the International
Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) as a group 2B carcinogen,
iQPTTJCMFDBSDJOPHFOJDUPIVNBOTu)PXFWFS SJHPSPVTFQJEFNJPlogic data is lacking to fully evaluate the cancer-inducing potential
of nanoparticles.81

R E F E R E N C E S
22. Williams D. Cancer after nuclear fallout: lessons from the Chernobyl accident. Nat Rev Cancer 2002;2:543–549.
  3JDBSUF'JMIP+$ -J4 (BSDJB3FOEVFMFT.& FUBM*EFOUJàDBUJPOPGLJOBTF
fusion oncogenes in post-Chernobyl radiation-induced thyroid cancers.
J Clin Invest 2013;123:4935–4944.
24. National Research Council. Health Risks from Exposure to Low Levels of
Ionizing Radiation: BEIR VII Phase 2. Washington, D.C.: National Academy
Press; 2006.
25. Ljungman M, Zhang F. Blockage of RNA polymerase as a possible trigger for
u.v. light-induced apoptosis. Oncogene.1996;13:823–831.
  )BOBXBMU1$ 4QJWBL(5SBOTDSJQUJPODPVQMFE%/"SFQBJSUXPEFDBEFTPG
progress and surprises. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 2008;9:958–970.
  EF#PFS+ "OESFTTPP+0 EF8JU+ FUBM1SFNBUVSFBHJOHJONJDFEFàDJFOUJO
DNA repair and transcription. Science 2002;296:1276–1279.
  (BSJOJT(" 6JUUFOCPPHBBSE-. 4UBDIFMTDIFJE) FUBM1FSTJTUFOUUSBOTDSJQtion-blocking DNA lesions trigger somatic growth attenuation associated with
longevity. Nat Cell Biol 2009;11:604–615.
  %FSIFJNFS '"  0)BHBO ).  ,SVFHFS ).  FU BM 31" BOE "53
link transcriptional stress to p53. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2007;104:
12778–12783.
  ,BTUBO .#  #BSUFL + $FMMDZDMF DIFDLQPJOUT BOE DBODFS Nature 2004;
432:316–323.
37. Ljungman M, Lane DP. Transcription - guarding the genome by sensing
DNA damage. Nat Rev Cancer 2004;4:727–737.
42. Murphy GM. Ultraviolet radiation and immunosuppression. Br J Dermatol
2009;161(Suppl 3):90–95.
43. Fisher MS, Kripke ML. Systemic alteration induced in mice by ultraviolet
light irradiation and its relationship to ultraviolet carcinogenesis. Proc Natl
Acad Sci U S A 1977;74:1688–1692.

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chapter 8 Physical Factors

102

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

  1MFBTBODF&% $IFFUIBN3, 4UFQIFOT1+ FUBM"DPNQSFIFOTJWFDBUBMPHVFPG
somatic mutations from a human cancer genome. Nature 2010;463:191–196.
46. Kripke ML, Cox PA, Alas LG, et al. Pyrimidine dimers in DNA initiate systemic immunosuppression in UV-irradiated mice. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
1992;89:7516–7520.
  7JKBZBMBYNJ 1SJIPEB5+(FOFUJDEBNBHFJONBNNBMJBOTPNBUJDDFMMTFYposed to radiofrequency radiation: a meta-analysis of data from 63 publications (1990–2005). Radiat Res 2008;169:561–574.
57. Consales C, Merla C, Marino C, et al. Electromagnetic fields, oxidative
stress, and neurodegeneration. Int J Cell Biol 2012;2012:683897.
58. Ahlbom A, Day N, Feychting M, et al. A pooled analysis of magnetic fields
and childhood leukaemia. Br J Cancer 2000;83:692–698.
  ,IFJGFUT- .POSPF+ 7FSHBSB9 FUBM0DDVQBUJPOBMFMFDUSPNBHOFUJDàFMET
and leukemia and brain cancer: an update to two meta-analyses. J Occup
Environ Med 2008;50:677–688.
  $IFO$ .B9 ;IPOH. FUBM&YUSFNFMZMPXGSFRVFODZFMFDUSPNBHOFUJD
fields exposure and female breast cancer risk: a meta-analysis based on 24,338
cases and 60,628 controls. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2010;123:569–576.
  )BSEFMM- $BSMCFSH. )BOTTPO.JME,.PCJMFQIPOFVTFBOEUIFSJTLGPS
malignant brain tumors: a case-control study on deceased cases and controls.
Neuroepidemiology 2010;35:109–114.

  .ZVOH4, +V8 .D%POOFMM%% FUBM.PCJMFQIPOFVTFBOESJTLPGUVmors: a meta-analysis. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:5565–5572.
  #FOTPO 74  1JSJF ,  4DIV[ +  FU BM .PCJMF QIPOF VTF BOE SJTL PG CSBJO
neoplasms and other cancers: prospective study. Int J Epidemiol 2013;42:
792–802.
  1PVMTFO ")  'SJJT 4  +PIBOTFO $  FU BM .PCJMF QIPOF VTF BOE UIF SJTL
of skin cancer: a nationwide cohort study in Denmark. Am J Epidemiol
2013;178:190–197.
73. Liu G, Cheresh P, Kamp DW. Molecular basis of asbestos-induced lung disease. Annu Rev Pathol 2013;8:161–187.
  4IVLMB 3,  ,VNBS "  (VSCBOJ %  FU BM 5J0   OBOPQBSUJDMFT JOEVDF PYJdative DNA damage and apoptosis in human liver cells. Nanotoxicology
2013;7:48–60.
  )PSJF. /JTIJP, &OEPI4 FUBM$ISPNJVN *** PYJEFOBOPQBSUJDMFTJOduced remarkable oxidative stress and apoptosis on culture cells. Environ
Toxicol 2013;28:61–75.
79. Prasad RY, Chastain PD, Nikolaishvili-Feinberg N, et al. Titanium dioxide
nanoparticles activate the ATM-Chk2 DNA damage response in human dermal fibroblasts. Nanotoxicology 2013;7:1111–1119.
  4IJ )  .BHBZF 3  $BTUSBOPWB 7  FU BM 5JUBOJVN EJPYJEF OBOPQBSUJDMFT B
review of current toxicological data. Part Fibre Toxicol 2013;10:15.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

9

Dietary Factors

INTRODUCTION
Over two decades ago, Doll and Peto1 speculated that 35% (range:
10% to 70%) of all cancer deaths in the United States may be preventable by alterations in diet. The magnitude of the estimate for dietary factors exceeded that for tobacco (30%) and infections (10%).
Studies of cancer incidence among populations migrating to
countries with different lifestyle factors have indicated that most
cancers have a large environmental etiology. Although the contribution of environmental influences differs by cancer type, the incidence of many cancers changes by as much as five- to tenfold among
migrants over time, approaching that of the host country. The age
at migration affects the degree of adaptation among first-generation
migrants for some cancers, suggesting that the susceptibility to environmental carcinogenic influences varies with age by cancer type.
Identifying the specific environmental and lifestyle factors most important to cancer etiology, however, has proven difficult.
Environmental factors such as diet may influence the incidence of cancer through many different mechanisms and at different stages in the cancer process. Simple mutagens in foods, such
as those produced by the heating of proteins, can cause damage
to DNA, but dietary factors can also influence this process by
inducing enzymes that activate or inactivate these mutagens, or by
blocking the action of the mutagen. Dietary factors can also affect
every pathway hypothesized to mediate cancer risk–for example,
the rate of cell cycling through hormonal or antihormonal effects,
aiding or inhibiting DNA repair, promoting or inhibiting apoptosis, and DNA methylation. Because of the complexity of these
mechanisms, knowledge of dietary influences on risk of cancer
will require an empirical basis with human cancer as the outcome.

METHODOLOGIC CHALLENGES
Study Types and Biases
The association between diet and the risk of cancer has been the
subject of a number of epidemiologic studies. The most prevalent designs are the case-control study, the cohort study, and the
randomized clinical trial. When the results from epidemiologic
studies are interpreted, the potential for confounding must be
considered. Individuals who maintain a healthy diet are likely to
exhibit other indicators of a healthy lifestyle, including regular
physical activity, lower body weight, use of multivitamin supplements, lower smoking rates, and lower alcohol consumption. Even
if the influence of these confounding variables is analytically controlled, residual confounding remains possible.

Ecologic Studies
In ecologic studies or international correlation studies, variation in
food disappearance data and the prevalence of a certain disease are
correlated, generally across different countries. A linear association

may provide preliminary data to inform future research but, due
to the high probability of confounding, cannot provide strong evidence for a causal link. Food disappearance data also may not provide a good estimate for human consumption. The gross national
product is correlated with many dietary factors such as fat intake.2
Many other differences besides dietary fat exist between the countries with low fat consumption (less affluent) and high fat consumption (more affluent); reproductive behaviors, physical activity level,
and body fatness are particularly notable and are strongly associated
with specific cancers.

Migrant Studies
Studies of populations migrating from areas with low incidence
of disease to areas with high incidence of disease (or vice versa)
can help sort out the role of environmental factors versus genetics
in the etiology of a cancer, depending on whether the migrating
group adopts the cancer rates of the new environment. Specific
dietary components linked to disease are difficult to identify in a
migrant study.

Case-Control Studies
Case-control studies of diet may be affected by recall bias, control selection bias, and confounding. In a case-control study, participants affected by the disease under study (cases) and healthy
controls are asked to recall their past dietary habits. Cases may
overestimate their consumption of foods that are commonly considered “unhealthy” and underestimate their consumption of
foods considered “healthy.” Giovannucci et al.3 have documented
differential reporting of fat intake before and after disease occurrence. Thus, the possibility of recall bias in a case-control study
poses a real threat to the validity of the observed associations. Even
more importantly, in contemporary case-control studies using a
population sample of controls, the participation rate of controls
is usually far from complete, often 50% to 70%. Unfortunately,
health-conscious individuals may be more likely to participate
as controls and will thus be less overweight, will consume fruits
and vegetables more frequently, and will consume less fat and red
meat, which can substantially distort associations observed.

Cohort Studies
Prospective cohort studies of the effects of diet are likely to have
a much higher validity than retrospective case-control studies
because diet is recorded by participants before disease occurrence.
Cohort studies are still affected by measurement error because diet
consists of a large number of foods eaten in complex combinations. Confounding by other unmeasured or imperfectly measured
lifestyle factors can remain a problem in cohort studies.
Now that the results of a substantial number of cohort studies
have become available, their findings can be compared with those
of case-control studies that have examined the same relations. In

103

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Karin B. Michels and Walter C. Willett

104

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

many cases, the findings of the case-control studies have not been
confirmed; for example, the consistent finding of lower risk of many
cancers with higher intake of fruits and vegetables in case-control
studies has generally not been seen in cohort studies.4 These findings suggest that the concerns about biases in case-control studies
of diet, and probably many other lifestyle factors, are justified, and
findings from such studies must be interpreted cautiously.

Randomized Clinical Trials
The gold standard in medical research is the randomized clinical
trial (RCT). In an RCT on nutrition, participants are randomly
assigned to one of two or more diets; hence, the association between diet and the cancer of interest should not be confounded by
other factors. The problem with RCTs of diet is that maintaining
the assigned diet strictly over many years, as would be necessary
for diet to have an impact on cancer incidence, is difficult. For
example, in the dietary fat reduction trial of the Women’s Health
Initiative (WHI), participants randomized to the intervention arm
reduced their fat intake much less than planned.5 The remaining
limited contrast between the two groups left the lack of difference
in disease outcomes difficult to interpret. Furthermore, the relevant time window for intervention and the necessary duration of
intervention are unclear, especially with cancer outcomes. Hence,
randomized trials are rarely used to examine the effect of diet on
cancer but have better promise for the study of diet and outcomes
that require a considerably shorter follow-up time (e.g., adenoma
recurrence). Also, the randomized design may lend itself better to
the study of the effects of dietary supplements such as multivitamin
or fiber supplements, although the control group may adopt the
intervention behavior because nutritional supplements are widely
available. For example, in the WHI trial of calcium and vitamin
D supplementation, two-thirds of the study population used vitamin D or calcium supplements that they obtained outside of the
trial, again rendering the lack of effect in the trial uninterpretable.

Diet Assessment Instruments
Observational studies depend on a reasonably valid assessment of
dietary intake. Although, for some nutrients, biochemical measurements can be used to assess intake, for most dietary constituents,
a useful biochemical indicator does not exist. In population-based
studies, diet is generally assessed with a self-administered instrument. Since 1980, considerable effort has been directed at the
development of standardized questionnaires for measuring diet,
and numerous studies have been conducted to assess the validity of
these methods. The most widely used diet assessment instruments
are the food frequency questionnaire, the 7-day diet record, and
the 24-hour recall. Although the 7-day diet record may provide
the most accurate documentation of intake during the week the
participant keeps a diet diary, the burden of computerizing the
information and extracting foods and nutrients has prohibited
the use of the 7-day diet record in most large-scale studies. The
24-hour recall provides only a snapshot of diet on one day, which
may or may not be representative of the participant’s usual diet and
is thus affected by both personal variation and seasonal variation.
The food frequency questionnaire, the most widely used instrument in large population-based studies, asks participants to report
their average intake of a large number of foods during the previous year. Participants tend to substantially overreport their fruit
and vegetable consumption on the food frequency questionnaire.6
This tendency may reflect social desirability bias, which leads to
overreporting healthy foods and underreporting less healthy foods.
Studies of validity using biomarkers or detailed measurements of
diet as comparisons have suggested that carefully designed questionnaires can have sufficient validity to detect moderate to strong
associations. Validity can be enhanced by using the average of repeated assessments over time.7

THE ROLE OF INDIVIDUAL FOOD AND
NUTRIENTS IN CANCER ETIOLOGY
Energy
The most important impact of diet on the risk of cancer is mediated
through body weight. Overweight, obesity, and inactivity are major
contributors to cancer risk. (A more detailed discussion is provided
in Chapter 10.) In the large American Cancer Society Cohort,
obese individuals had substantially higher mortality from all cancers
and, in particular, from colorectal cancer, postmenopausal breast
cancer, uterine cancer, cervical cancer, pancreatic cancer, and gallbladder cancer than their normal-weight counterparts.8 Adiposity
and, in particular, waist circumference are predictors of colon cancer incidence among women and men.9,10 A weight gain of 10 kg
or more is associated with a significant increase in postmenopausal
breast cancer incidence among women who never used hormone
replacement therapy, whereas a weight loss of comparable magnitude after menopause substantially decreases breast cancer risk.11
Regular physical activity contributes to a lower prevalence of being
overweight and obesity and consequently reduces the burden of
cancer through this pathway.
The mechanisms whereby adiposity increases the risk of various cancers are probably multiple. Being overweight is strongly
associated with endogenous estrogen levels, which likely contribute to the excess risks of endometrial and postmenopausal breast
cancers. The reasons for the association with other cancers are less
clear, but excess body fat is also related to higher circulating levels of insulin, insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1, and C-peptide
(a marker of insulin secretion), lower levels of binding proteins for
sex hormones and IGF-1, and higher levels of various inflammatory factors, all of which have been hypothesized to be related to
risks of various cancers.
Energy restriction is one of the most effective measures to prevent cancer in the animal model. While energy restriction is more
difficult to study in humans, voluntary starvation among anorectics and situations of food rationing during famines provide related
models. Breast cancer rates were substantially reduced among
women with a history of severe anorexia.12 Although breast cancer
incidence was higher among women exposed to the Dutch famine
during childhood or adolescence, such short-term involuntary
food rationing for 9 months or less was often followed by overnutrition.13 A more prolonged deficit in food availability during World
War II in Norway was associated with a reduction in adult risk of
breast cancer if it occurred during early adolescence.14

Alcohol
Aside from body weight, alcohol consumption is the best established dietary risk factor for cancer. Alcohol is classified as a carcinogen by the International Agency for Research on Cancer. The
consumption of alcohol increases the risk of numerous cancers,
including those of the liver, esophagus, pharynx, oral cavity, larynx,
breast, and colorectum in a dose-dependent fashion.15 Evidence is
convincing that excessive alcohol consumption increases the risk
of primary liver cancer, probably through cirrhosis and alcoholic
hepatitis. At least in the developed world, about 75% of cancers of
the esophagus, pharynx, oral cavity, and larynx are attributable to
alcohol and tobacco, with a marked increase in risk among drinkers who also smoke, suggesting a multiplicative effect. Mechanisms
may include direct damage to the cells in the upper gastrointestinal
tract; modulation of DNA methylation, which affects susceptibility to DNA mutations; and an increase in acetaldehyde, the main
metabolite of alcohol, which enhances the proliferation of epithelial cells, forms DNA adducts, and is a recognized carcinogen.
The association between alcohol consumption and breast cancer
is notable because a small but significant risk has been found even

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

with one drink per day. Mechanisms may include an interaction
with folate, an increase in endogenous estrogen levels, and an elevation of acetaldehyde. Some evidence suggests that the excess risk
is mitigated by adequate folate intake possibly through an effect on
DNA methylation.16 Notably, for most cancer sites, no important
difference in associations was found with the type of alcoholic beverage, suggesting a critical role of ethanol in carcinogenesis.

Dietary Fat
In recent years, reducing dietary fat has been at the center of cancer prevention efforts. In the landmark 1982 National Academy of
Sciences review of diet, nutrition, and cancer, a reduction in fat
intake to 30% of calories was the primary recommendation.
Interest in dietary fat as a cause of cancer began in the first half
of the 20th century, when studies by Tannenbaum17 indicated that
diets high in fat could promote tumor growth in animal models.
Dietary fat has a clear effect on tumor incidence in many models,
although not in all; however, a central issue has been whether this
is independent of the effect of energy intake. In the 1970s, the
possible relation of dietary fat intake to cancer incidence gained
greater attention as the large international differences in rates of
many cancers were noted to be strongly correlated with apparent
per capita fat consumption in ecologic studies.2 Particularly strong
associations were seen with cancers of the breast, colon, prostate,
and endometrium, which include the most important cancers
not due to smoking in affluent countries. These correlations were
observed to be limited to animal, not vegetable, fat.

Dietary Fat and Breast Cancer
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among women,
and incidence has been increasing for decades, although a decline
has been noted starting with the new millennium. Rates in most
parts of Asia, South America, and Africa have been only approximately one-fifth that of the United States, but in almost all these
areas rates of breast cancer are also increasing. Populations that
migrate from low- to high-incidence countries develop breast cancer rates that approximate those of the new host country. However,
rates do not approach those of the general US population until
the second or third generation.18 This slower rate of change for
immigrants may indicate delayed acculturation; although because
a similar delay in rate increase is not observed for colon cancer, it
may suggest an origin of breast cancer earlier in the life course.
The results from 12 smaller case-control studies that included
4,312 cases and 5,978 controls have been summarized in a metaanalysis.19 The pooled relative risk (RR) was 1.35 (P <.0001) for a
100-g increase in daily total fat intake, although the risk was somewhat stronger for postmenopausal women (RR, 1.48; P <.001).
This magnitude of association, however, could be compatible with
biases due to recall of diet or the selection of controls.
Because of the prospective design of cohort studies, most of
the methodologic biases of case-control studies are avoided. In an
analysis of the Nurses’ Health Study that included 121,700 US
female registered nurses, no association with total fat intake was
observed, and there was no suggestion of any reduction in risk
at intakes below 25% of energy.20 Because repeated assessments
of diet were obtained at 2- to 4-year intervals, this analysis provided a particularly detailed evaluation of fat intake over an
extended period in relation to breast cancer risk. Similar observations were made in the National Institutes of Health (NIH)–
American Association of Retired Persons (AARP) Diet and Health
Study including 188,736 postmenopausal women21 and in the
European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition
(EPIC), which included 7,119 incident cases.22 In a pooled analysis of seven prospective studies, which included 337,000 women
who developed 4,980 incident cases of breast cancer, no overall
association was seen for fat intake over the range of less than 20%
to more than 45% energy (reflecting the current range observed

105

internationally).23 A similar lack of association was seen for specific types of fat. This lack of association with total fat intake was
confirmed in a subsequent analysis of the pooled prospective studies of diet and breast cancer, which included over 7,000 cases.24
Therefore, these cohort findings do not support the hypothesis that
dietary fat is an important contributor to breast cancer incidence.
Endogenous estrogen levels have now been established as a risk
factor for breast cancer. Thus, the effects of fat and other dietary
factors on estrogen levels are of potential interest. Vegetarian
women, who consume higher amounts of fiber and lower amounts
of fat, have lower blood levels and reduced urinary excretion of
estrogens, apparently due to increased fecal excretion. A metaanalysis has suggested that a reduction in dietary fat reduces
plasma estrogen levels,25 but the studies included were plagued
by the lack of concurrent controls, the short duration, and the
negative energy balance. In a large, randomized trial among postmenopausal women with a previous diagnosis of breast cancer, a
reduction in dietary fat did not affect estradiol levels when the data
were appropriately analyzed.26
The WHI Randomized Controlled Dietary Modification Trial
similarly suggested no association between fat intake and breast
cancer incidence,5 but these results are difficult to interpret.27 The
data on biomarkers that reflect fat intake suggest little if any difference in fat intake between the intervention and control groups.28
Even if dietary fat does truly have an effect on cancer incidence
and other outcomes, this lack of adherence to the dietary intervention could explain the absence of an observed effect on total cancer incidence and total mortality. In another randomized trial in
Canada that tested an intervention target of 15% of calories from
fat, a small but significant difference in high-density lipoprotein
(HDL) levels was observed after 8 to 9 years of follow-up suggesting a difference in fat intake in the two groups.29 The incidence
of breast cancer in the intervention and the control group did not
differ significantly.
Some prospective cohort studies suggest an inverse association
between monounsaturated fat and breast cancer. This is an intriguing observation because of the relatively low rates of breast cancer
in southern European countries with high intakes of monounsaturated fats due to the use of olive oil as the primary fat. In casecontrol studies in Spain, Greece, and Italy, women who used more
olive oil had reduced risks of breast cancer.
In a report of findings from the Nurses’ Health Study II cohort
of premenopausal women, a higher intake of animal fat was associated with an approximately 50% greater risk of breast cancer, but
no association was seen with intake of vegetable fat.30 This suggests
that factors in foods containing animal fats, rather than fat per se,
may account for the findings. In the same cohort, an intake of red
meat and total fat during adolescence was also associated with the
risk of premenopausal breast cancer.31,32

Dietary Fat and Colon Cancer
In comparisons among countries, rates of colon cancer are strongly
correlated with a national per capita disappearance of animal fat
and meat, with correlation coefficients ranging between 0.8 and
0.9.2 Rates of colon cancer rose sharply in Japan after World
War II, paralleling a 2.5-fold increase in fat intake. Based on these
epidemiologic investigations and on animal studies, a hypothesis
has developed that higher dietary fat increases the excretion of bile
acids, which can be converted to carcinogens or act as promoters.
However, evidence from many studies on obesity and low levels of
physical activity increasing the risk of colon cancer suggests that at
least part of the high rates in affluent countries previously attributed to fat intake is probably due to a sedentary lifestyle.
The Nurses’ Health Study suggested an approximately twofold
higher risk of colon cancer among women in the highest quintile
of animal fat intake than in those in the lowest quintile.33 In a
multivariate analysis of these data, which included red meat intake and animal fat intake in the same model, red meat intake

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chapter 9 Dietary Factors

106

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

remained significantly predictive of colon cancer risk, whereas the
association with animal fat was eliminated. Other cohort studies
have supported associations of colon cancer and the consumption
of red meat and processed meats but not other sources of fat or
total fat.34–36 Similar associations were also observed for colorectal
adenomas. In a meta-analysis of prospective studies, red meat consumption was associated with a risk of colon cancer (RR = 1.24;
95% confidence interval [CI], 1.09 to 1.41 for an increment of
120 g per day).37 The association with the consumption of processed meats was particularly strong (RR = 1.36; 95% CI, 1.15 to
1.61 for an increment of 30 g per day).
The apparently stronger association with red meat consumption
than with fat intake in most large cohort studies needs further confirmation, but such an association could result if the fatty acids or nonfat components of meat (e.g., the heme iron or carcinogens created
by cooking) were the primary etiologic factors. This issue has major
practical implications because current dietary recommendations
support the daily consumption of red meat as long as it is lean.38

Dietary Fat and Prostate Cancer
Although further data are desirable, the evidence from international correlations, case-control39 and cohort studies40–44 provides
some support for an association between the consumption of fatcontaining animal products and prostate cancer incidence. This
evidence does not generally support a relation with intake of vegetable fat, which suggests that either the type of fat or other components of animal products are responsible. Some evidence also
indicates that animal fat consumption may be most strongly associated with the incidence of aggressive prostate cancer, which suggests an influence on the transition from the widespread indolent
form to the more lethal form of this malignancy. Data are limited
on the relation of fat intake to the probability of survival after the
diagnosis of prostate cancer.

Dietary Fat and Other Cancers
Rates of other cancers that are common in affluent countries,
including those of the endometrium and ovary, are also correlated
with fat intake internationally. In prospective studies between
Iowa and Canadian women, no evidence of a relation between
fat intake and risk of endometrial cancer was found. Positive associations between dietary fat and lung cancer have been observed
in many case-control studies. However, in a pooled analysis of
large prospective studies that included over 3,000 incident cases,
no association was observed.45 These findings provide further evidence that the results of case-control studies of diet and cancer are
likely to be misleading.

Summary
Largely on the basis of the results of animal studies, international
correlations, and a few case-control studies, great enthusiasm developed in the 1980s that modest reductions in total fat intake
would have a major impact on breast cancer incidence. As the
findings from large prospective studies have become available,
however, support for this relation has greatly weakened. Although
evidence suggests that a high intake of animal fat early in adult life
may increase the risk of premenopausal breast cancer, this is not
likely to be due to fat per se because vegetable fat intake was not
related to risk. For colon cancer, the associations seen with animal
fat intake internationally have been supported in numerous casecontrol and cohort studies, but this also appears to be explained
by factors in red meat other than simply its fat content. Further,
the importance of physical activity and leanness as protective factors against colon cancer indicates that international correlations
probably overstate the contribution of diet to differences in colon
cancer incidence. At present, the available evidence most strongly
suggests an association between animal fat consumption and risk
of prostate cancer, particularly the aggressive form of this disease.

As with colon cancer, the possibility remains that other factors in
animal products contribute to risk.
Despite the large body of data on dietary fat and cancer that has
accumulated since 1985, any conclusions should be regarded as tentative, because these are disease processes that are poorly understood
and are likely to take many decades to develop. Because most of the
reported literature from prospective studies is based on fewer than
20 years’ follow-up, further evaluations of the effects of diet earlier in
life and at longer intervals of observation are needed to fully understand these complex relations. Nevertheless, persons interested in
reducing their risk of cancer could be advised, as a prudent measure,
to minimize their intake of foods high in animal fat, particularly red
meat. Such a dietary pattern is also likely to be beneficial for the risk
of cardiovascular disease. On the other hand, unsaturated fats (with
the exception of transfatty acids) reduce blood low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and the risk of cardiovascular disease, and
little evidence suggests that they adversely affect cancer risk. Thus,
efforts to reduce unsaturated fat intake are not warranted at this
time and are likely to have adverse effects on cardiovascular disease
risk. Because excess adiposity increases the risk of several cancers
and cardiovascular disease, balancing calories from any source with
adequate physical activity is extremely important.

Fruits and Vegetables
General Properties
Fruits and vegetables have been hypothesized to be major dietary
contributors to cancer prevention because they are rich in potential anticarcinogenic substances. Fruits and vegetables contain
antioxidants and minerals and are good sources of fiber, potassium, carotenoids, vitamin C, folate, and other vitamins. Although
fruits and vegetables supply less than 5% of total energy intake in
most countries worldwide on a population basis, the concentration
of micronutrients in these foods is greater than in most others.
The comprehensive report of the World Cancer Research Fund
and the American Institute for Cancer Research, published in 2007
and titled Food, Nutrition, Physical Activity, and the Prevention of
Cancer: A Global Perspective, reached the consensus based on the
available evidence: “findings from cohort studies conducted since
the mid-1990s have made the overall evidence, that vegetables or
fruits protect against cancers, somewhat less impressive. In no case
now is the evidence of protection judged to be convincing.”15

Fruit and Vegetable Consumption and Colorectal
Cancer
The association between fruit and vegetable consumption and the
incidence of colon or rectal cancer has been examined prospectively in at least six studies. In some of these prospective cohorts,
inverse associations were observed for individual foods or particular
subgroups of fruits or vegetables, but no consistent pattern emerged
and many comparisons revealed no such links. The results from
the largest studies, the Nurses’ Health Study and the Health Professionals’ Follow-Up Study, suggested no important association
between the consumption of fruits and vegetables and the incidence of cancers of the colon or rectum during 1,743,645 personyears of follow-up.46 In these two large cohorts, diet was assessed
repeatedly during follow-up with a detailed food frequency questionnaire. Similarly, in the Pooling Project of Prospective Studies
of Diet and Cancer, including 14 studies, 756,217 participants,
and 5,838 cases of colon cancer, no association with overall colon
cancer risk was found.47

Fruit and Vegetable Consumption and Stomach
Cancer
At least 12 prospective cohort studies have examined the consumption of some fruits and vegetables and the incidence of stomach

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 9 Dietary Factors

Fruit and Vegetable Consumption and Breast
Cancer
The most comprehensive evaluation of fruit and vegetable consumption and the incidence of breast cancer was provided by a
pooled analysis of all cohort studies.48 Data were pooled from
eight prospective studies that included 351,825 women, 7,377 of
whom developed incident invasive breast cancer during followup. The pooled relative risk adjusted for potential confounding
variables was 0.93 (95% CI, 0.86 to 1.0; P for trend, .08) for
the highest versus the lowest quartile of fruit consumption, 0.96
(95% CI, 0.89 to 1.04; P for trend, .54) for vegetable intake, and
0.93 (95% CI, 0.86 to 1.0; P for trend, .12) for total consumption of fruits and vegetables combined. The EPIC study confirmed this lack of association.49 In a recent analysis within the
Nurses’ Health Study, an inverse association was seen between
vegetable intake and the risk of estrogen receptor–negative
breast cancer.50 This observation was confirmed in the pooling
project of prospective studies: The pooled relative risk for the
highest vs. the lowest quintile of total vegetable consumption
was 0.82 (95% CI 0.74 to 0.90) for estrogen-receptor negative
breast cancer.51

Fruit and Vegetable Consumption and Lung Cancer
The relation between fruit and vegetable consumption and the
incidence of lung cancer was examined in the pooled analysis of
cohort studies.52 Overall, no association was observed, although a
modest increase in lung cancer incidence was evident among participants with the lowest fruit and vegetable consumption.

Fruit and Vegetable Consumption and Total Cancer
An analysis of the Nurses’ Health Study and the Health Professionals’ Follow-Up Study, including over 9,000 incident cases of
cancer, did not reveal a benefit of fruit and vegetable consumption
for total cancer incidence.53 Observations from the EPIC cohort
were essentially consistent with these findings.54 Although there
may be no or only a very weak protection conferred for cancer
from consuming an abundance of fruits and vegetables, there is a
substantial benefit for protection from cardiovascular disease.

Summary
The consumption of fruits and vegetables and some of their
main micronutrients appear to be less important in cancer prevention than previously assumed. With an accumulation of data
from prospective cohort studies and randomized trials, a lack of
association of these foods and nutrients with cancer outcomes
has become apparent. A modest association cannot be excluded
because of an imperfect measurement of diet, and it remains
possible that a high consumption of fruits and vegetables during
childhood and adolescence is more effective at reducing cancer
risk than consumption in adult life due to the long latency of
cancer manifestation.
Conversely, it is possible that, with the fortification of breakfast
cereal, flour, and other staple foods, the frequent consumption of
fruits and vegetables has become less essential for cancer prevention. Nevertheless, an abundance of fruits and vegetables as part
of a healthy diet is recommended, because evidence consistently
suggests that it lowers the incidence of hypertension, heart disease,
and stroke.

Fiber
General Properties
Dietary fiber was defined in 1976 as “all plant polysaccharides and
lignin which are resistant to hydrolysis by the digestive enzymes
of men.”55 Fiber, both soluble and insoluble, is fermented by the
luminal bacteria of the colon. Among the properties of fiber that
make it a candidate for cancer prevention are its “bulking” effect,
which reduces colonic transit time, and the binding of potentially
carcinogenic luminal chemicals. Fiber may also aid in producing
short-chain fatty acids that may be directly anticarcinogenic. Fiber
may also induce apoptosis.

Dietary Fiber and Colorectal Cancer
In 1969, Dennis Burkitt hypothesized that dietary fiber is involved
in colon carcinogenesis.56 While working as a physician in Africa,
Burkitt noticed the low incidence of colon cancer among African
populations whose diets were high in fiber. Burkitt concluded that
a link might exist between the fiber-rich diet and the low incidence
of colon cancer. Burkitt’s observations were followed by numerous
case-control studies that seemed to confirm his theories. A combined analysis of 13 case-control studies57 as well as a meta-analysis
of 16 case-control studies58 suggested an inverse association between fiber intake and the risk of colorectal cancer. The inclusion
of studies was selective, however, and effect estimates unadjusted
for potential confounders were used for most studies. Moreover,
recall bias is a severe threat to the validity of retrospective casecontrol studies of fiber intake and any disease outcome.
Data from prospective cohort studies have largely failed to support an inverse association between dietary fiber and colorectal
cancer incidence. Initial analyses from the Nurses’ Health Study
and the Health Professionals’ Follow-Up Study36 found no important association between dietary fiber and colorectal cancer. A significant inverse association between fiber intake and incidence of
colorectal cancer was reported from the EPIC study. The analysis presented on dietary fiber and colorectal cancer encompassed
434,209 women and men from eight European countries.59 The
analytic model used by the EPIC investigators included adjustments for age, height, weight, total caloric intake, sex, and center
assessed at baseline and identified60 a significant inverse association
between fiber intake and colorectal cancer. Applying the same analytic model used in EPIC to data from the Nurses’ Health Study
and the Health Professionals’ Follow-Up Study encompassing
1.8 million person-years of follow-up and 1,572 cases of colorectal
cancer revealed associations similar to those found in the EPIC
study.61 After a more complete adjustment for confounding variables, however, the association vanished.61 Results from the pooled
analysis of 13 prospective cohort studies, including 8,081 colorectal cancer cases diagnosed during over 7 million person-years of
follow-up, suggested an inverse relation between dietary fiber and
colorectal cancer incidence in age-adjusted analyses, but this
association disappeared after appropriate adjustment for confounding variables, particularly other dietary factors.62 The NIH–AARP
study, which included 2,974 cases of colorectal cancer, confirmed
the lack of association between total dietary fiber and colorectal
cancer risk.63
The association between dietary fiber and colorectal cancer
appears to be confounded by a number of other dietary and nondietary factors. These methodologic considerations must be taken
into account when interpreting the evidence. It is possible that
other dietary factors such as folate intake are more important for
colorectal cancer pathogenesis than dietary fiber.

Dietary Fiber and Colorectal Adenomas
In a few prospective cohort studies, the primary occurrence of
colorectal polyps was investigated, but no consistent relation
was found.

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

cancer.15 Seven of these studies considered total vegetable intake.
Three found significant protection from stomach cancer, whereas
three did not. All other comparisons were made for subgroups of
vegetables and produced inconsistent results. Nine prospective
cohort studies investigated the association between fruit consumption and stomach cancer risk. Four studies found an inverse association of borderline statistical significance.

107

108

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

The study of fiber intake and colorectal adenoma recurrence
lends itself to a randomized clinical trial design because of the
relatively short follow-up necessary and because fiber can be provided as a supplement. A number of RCTs have explored the effect
of fiber supplementation on colorectal adenoma recurrence. Evidence has fairly consistently indicated no effect of fiber intake.64–68
In one RCT, an increase in adenoma recurrence was observed
among participants randomly assigned to use a fiber supplement,
which was stronger among those with high dietary calcium.69

Dietary Fiber and Breast Cancer
Investigators have speculated that dietary fiber may reduce the risk
of breast cancer through a reduction in intestinal absorption of
estrogens excreted via the biliary system.
Relatively few epidemiologic studies have examined the association between fiber intake and breast cancer. In a meta-analysis
of 10 case-control studies, a significant inverse association was
observed. However, these retrospective studies were likely affected
by the aforementioned biases—selection and recall bias, in particular. Results from at least six prospective cohort studies consistently suggested no association between fiber intake and breast
cancer incidence.70–75

Dietary Fiber and Stomach Cancer
The results from retrospective case-control studies of fiber intake
and gastric cancer risk are inconsistent. In the Netherlands Cohort
Study, dietary fiber was not associated with an incidence of gastric
carcinoma.76 Further investigations through prospective cohort
studies must be completed before conclusions about the relation
between fiber intake and stomach cancer incidence can be drawn.

Summary
The observational data presently available do not indicate an important role for dietary fiber in the prevention of cancer, although
small effects cannot be excluded. The long-held perception that
a high intake of fiber conveys protection originated largely from
retrospectively conducted studies, which are affected by a number
of biases, in particular, the potential for differential recall of diet,
and from studies that were not well controlled for potential confounding variables.

OTHER FOODS AND NUTRIENTS
Red Meat
The regular consumption of red meat has been associated with an
increased risk of colorectal cancer. In a recent meta-analysis, the
increase in risk associated with an increase in intake of 120 g per
day was 24% (95% CI, 9% to 41%).37 The association was strongest
for processed meat; the relative risk of colorectal cancer was 1.36
(95% CI, 1.15 to 1.61) for a consumption of 30 g per day.37 No
overall association has been observed between red meat consumption and breast cancer in a pooled analysis of prospective cohorts.77
However, among premenopausal women in the Nurses’ Health
Study II, the risk for estrogen-receptor–positive and progesteronereceptor–positive breast cancer doubled with 1.5 servings of red
meat per day compared to three or fewer servings per week.78
No associations have been found in studies on poultry or fish.15
Mechanisms through which red meat may increase cancer risk
include anabolic hormones routinely used in meat production in
the United States, heterocyclic amines, and polycyclic aromatic
hydrocarbons formed during cooking at high temperatures, the
high amounts of heme iron, and nitrates and related compounds
in smoked, salted, and some processed meats that can convert to
carcinogenic nitrosamines in the colon.

Milk, Dairy Products, and Calcium
Regular milk consumption has been associated with a modest
reduction in colorectal cancer in both a pooling project79 and
a meta-analysis of cohort studies,80 possibly due to its calcium
content. In the pooling project of prospective studies of diet and
cancer, a modest inverse association was also seen for calcium
intake.79 This finding is consistent with the results of a randomized
trial in which calcium supplements reduced the risk of colorectal adenomas.81 Associations with cheese and other dairy products
have been less consistent.79,80
Conversely, in multiple studies, a high intake of calcium or
dairy products has been associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer,80,82–86 specifically fatal prostate cancer.87,88 Similar
observations were made in the NIH–AARP study, although the
increase in risk there did not reach statistical significance.89 While
the Multiethnic Cohort90 and the Prostate, Lung, Colorectal,
and Ovarian Cancer Screening Trial91 did not find an important
association between dairy consumption and prostate cancer, these
cohort studies did not specifically include fatal prostate cancer
cases. A meta-analysis of prospective studies generated an overall
relative risk of advanced prostate cancer of 1.33 (95% CI, 1.00 to
1.78) for the highest versus the lowest intake categories of dairy
products.92 In another meta-analysis, no significant association was
found for cohort studies on dairy or milk consumption, but relative
risk estimates suggested a positive association.93 Thus, although
the findings are not entirely consistent and are complicated by the
widespread use of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening in the
United States, the global evidence suggests a positive association
between the regular consumption of dairy products and the risk of
fatal prostate cancer. Consuming three or more servings of dairy
products per day has been associated with endometrial cancer
among postmenopausal women not using hormonal therapy.94
A high intake of lactose from dairy products has also been associated with a modestly higher risk of ovarian cancer.95
These observations are particularly important in the context of
national dietary recommendations to drink three glasses of milk
per day.38 Possible mechanisms include an increase in endogenous
IGF-1 levels96 and steroid hormones contained in cows’ milk.97

Vitamin D
In 1980, Garland and Garland98 hypothesized that sunlight and
vitamin D may reduce the risk of colon cancer. Since then, substantial research has been conducted in this area supporting an
inverse association between circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D
(25[OH]D) levels and colorectal cancer risk.99–103 A meta-analysis,
including five nested case-control studies with prediagnostic
serum, suggested a reduction of colorectal cancer risk by about
half among individuals with serum 25(OH)D levels of more than
82 nmol/L compared to individuals with less than 30 nmol/L.104
A subsequent meta-analysis including eight studies confirmed
these associations.105 These observations are supported by similar
findings for colorectal adenomas.106 Vitamin D levels may particularly affect colorectal cancer prognosis; colorectal cancer mortality
was 72% lower among individuals with 25(OH)D concentrations
of 80 nmol/L or higher.107
The evidence for other cancers has been less consistent. High
plasma levels of vitamin D have been associated with a decreased
risk of several other cancers, including cancer of the breast108–111;
prostate, especially fatal prostate cancer112; and ovary.113,114 Whether
vitamin D plays a role in pancreatic cancerogenesis remains to be
determined with one pooling project, suggesting a positive association,115 whereas other prospective studies116 and a pooling project
of cohort studies found inverse associations.117
The activation of vitamin D receptors by 1,25(OH)2D induces
cell differentiation and inhibits proliferation and angiogenesis.118 Solar ultraviolet B radiation is the major source of plasma

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 9 Dietary Factors

Folate
Folate is a micronutrient commonly found in fruits and vegetables, particularly oranges, orange juice, asparagus, beets, and peas.
Folate may affect carcinogenesis through various mechanisms:
DNA methylation, DNA synthesis, and DNA repair. In the animal
model, folate deficiency enhances intestinal carcinogenesis.119
Folate deficiency is related to the incorporation of uracil into
human DNA and to an increased frequency of chromosomal
breaks. A number of epidemiologic studies suggest that a diet rich
in folate lowers the risk of colorectal adenomas and colorectal
cancer.15 Because the folate content in foods is generally relatively
low, is susceptible to oxidative destruction by cooking and food
processing, and is not well absorbed, folic acid from supplements
and fortification plays an important role. Pooled results from
13 prospective studies suggests that intake of 400 to 500 μg per day
is required to minimize risk.120
Potential interactions among alcohol consumption, folic acid
intake, and methionine intake have been described. Although
alcohol consumption has been fairly consistently related to an
increase in breast cancer incidence, the potential detrimental effect of alcohol seems to be eliminated in women with high folic
acid intake.16 A similar folic acid or methionine–alcohol interaction has been observed for colorectal cancer risk.119
Genetic susceptibility may also modify the relation between
folate intake and cancer risk. A polymorphism of the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene (cytosine to thymine
transition at position 677) may result in a relative deficiency of
methionine. Individuals with the common C677T mutation appear to experience the greatest protection from high folic acid or
methionine intake and low alcohol consumption.121 Although the
interaction between this polymorphism and dietary factors needs
to be investigated further, the consistently observed association
between this polymorphism and the risk of colorectal cancer supports a role of folate in the etiology of colorectal cancer.
Folate levels also affect the availability of methyl groups via
S-adenosylmethionine in the one-carbon metabolism.122 Low
red blood cell folate levels are associated with low DNA methylation status among homozygous MTHFR 677T/T mutation carriers, whereas at high red blood cell folate levels, the amount of
methylated cytosine in DNA is similar to that of the heterozygote
MTHFR C677T genotype.123
Conversely, evidence from animal and human studies suggests
that a high folate status may promote the progression of existing
neoplasias.122,124,125 The randomization of folic acid supplements
among individuals with a history of colorectal adenoma resulted
in either no effect on recurrent adenoma recurrence126 or an increase in recurrence with over 6 to 8 years of follow-up.127 The
high proliferation rate of neoplastic cells requiring increased DNA
synthesis is likely supported by folate, which is necessary for thymidine synthesis.122,125 The effects of folate on de novo methylation
and subsequent gene silencing have been insufficiently studied.
An increase in colorectal cancer rates has been observed in the
United States and Canada concurrent with the introduction of the
folic acid fortification program, but this could be an artifact due to
increased use of colonoscopies.128 The lack of increase in mortality, but an acceleration in a long-term downward trend suggests the
latter explanation (http://progressreport.cancer.gov/).

Carotenoids
Carotenoids, antioxidants prevalent in fruits and vegetables, enhance cell-to-cell communication, promote cell differentiation,
and modulate immune response. In 1981, Doll and Peto1 speculated that beta-carotene may be a major player in cancer prevention and encouraged testing its anticarcinogenic properties.
Indeed, subsequent observational studies, mostly case-control investigations, suggested a reduced cancer risk—especially of lung
cancer—with a high intake of carotenoids. In contrast, clinical trials randomizing the intake of beta-carotene supplements have not
revealed the evidence of a protective effect of beta-carotene. In fact,
beta-carotene was found to increase the risk of lung cancer and
total mortality among smokers in the Finnish Alpha-Tocopherol,
Beta-Carotene Cancer Prevention Study.129 However, these adverse affects disappeared during longer periods of follow-up.130 In
a detailed analysis of prospective studies, no association was seen
between the intake of beta-carotene and the risk of lung cancer.131
The pooled analysis of 18 cohort studies including more than
33,000 breast cancer cases suggested inverse associations between
the intake of several carotenoids (beta-carotene, alpha-carotene,
luteine/zeaxanthin) and estrogen-receptor–negative breast cancer incidence, whereas no association was found for estrogenreceptor–positive tumors.132 Similarly, in a pooled analysis of
data from eight prospective studies including about 3,055 breast
cancer cases, blood levels of carotenoids were inversely related
to estrogen-receptor–negative mammary tumor incidence.133
Women in the highest quintile of beta-carotene levels had about
half the risk of developing estrogen-receptor–negative breast cancer than women in the lowest quintile (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.52;
95% CI, 0.36 to 0.77).
The particularly pronounced antioxidant properties of lycopene, a carotenoid mainly found in tomatoes, may explain the
inverse associations with some cancers. The frequent consumption of tomato-based products has been associated with a decreased
risk of prostate, lung, and stomach cancers.134 The bioavailability of lycopene from cooked tomatoes is higher than from fresh
tomatoes, making tomato soup and sauce excellent sources of the
carotenoid.

Selenium
Selenium has long been of interest in cancer prevention due to
its antioxidative properties. Its intake is difficult to estimate because food content depends on the selenium content of the soil
it is grown in. Selenium enriches in toenails, which provide an
integrative measure of intake during the previous year and therefore are popular biomarkers in epidemiologic studies. Inverse associations with toenail selenium levels have been found in several
prospective studies, especially for fatal protate cancer.135–137 In a
recent meta-analysis, plasma/serum selenium was also inversely
correlated with prostate cancer.138 In the Selenium and Vitamin E
Cancer Prevention Trial (SELECT), no protective effect of selenium was found for prostate cancer. However, the trial was terminated prematurely after 4 years, which is a short period in which to
expect a reduction in cancer.139

Soy Products
The role of soy products has been considered for breast carcinogenesis. In Asian countries, which traditionally have a high consumption of soy foods, breast cancer rates have been low until recently. In
Western countries, soy consumption is generally low, and betweenperson variation may be insufficient to allow meaningful comparisons.
Soybeans contain isoflavones, which are phytoestrogens that compete with estrogen for the estrogen receptor. Hence, soy consumption may affect estrogen concentrations differently depending on the
endogenous baseline level. This mechanism may also contribute to

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

vitamin D, and dietary vitamin D without supplementation has
a minor effect on plasma vitamin D. To achieve sufficient plasma
levels through sun exposure, at least 15 minutes of full-body
exposure to bright sunlight is necessary. Physical activity has to
be considered as possible confounder of studies on plasma levels
of vitamin D and cancer. Sunscreen effectively blocks vitamin D
production. Populations who live in geographic areas with limited
or seasonal sun exposure may benefit from a vitamin D supplementation of 1,000 IU per day.

109

110

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

the equivocal results of studies on soy foods and breast cancer risk. In
a recent meta-analysis of 18 epidemiologic studies, including over
9,000 breast cancer cases, frequent soy intake was associated with a
modest decrease in risk (odds ratio = 0.86; 95% CI, 0.75 to 0.99).140
Wu et al. 141 observed that childhood intake of soy was more relevant
to breast cancer prevention than adult consumption.

Carbohydrates
The Warburg hypothesis postulated in 1924 that tumor cells
mainly generate energy by the nonoxidative breakdown of glucose (glucolysis) instead of pyrovate.142 Carbohydrates with a
high glycemic load increase blood glucose levels after consumption, which results in insulin spikes increasing the risk for type 2
diabetes. Several cancers, including colorectal cancer143 and
breast cancer,144 have been associated with type 2 diabetes. The
evidence on the consumption of sucrose and refined, processed
flour and cancer incidence is heterogeneous.145 Whereas in some
prospective cohort studies an increase in colon cancer incidence
was observed,146 this was not found in other studies.147 In large
cohort studies, associations have been observed for pancreatic148
and endometrial145 cancer risk, but not for postmenopausal breast
cancer.149 Especially in obese, sedentary individuals, abnormal
glucose and insulin metabolism may contribute to tumorigenesis.

cancer.157 Tall height is an indicator of the risk of many cancers
and is in part determined by nutrition during childhood.15 Until
recently, most studies focused on the role of diet during adult life.
However, the critical exposure period for nutrition to affect cancer risk may be earlier, and because the latent period for cancer
may span several decades, diet during childhood and adolescence
may be important. However, relating dietary information during
early life and cancer outcomes prospectively is difficult because
nutrition records from the remote past are not available. Studies
in which recalled diet during youth is used have to be interpreted
cautiously due to misclassification, although recall has been found
reasonably reproducible and consistent with recalls provided by
participants’ mothers.158,159 The role of early life diet has been
explored in only a few studies in relation to breast cancer risk. In a
study nested in the Nurses’ Health Study cohorts that used data recalled by mothers, frequent consumption of french fries was associated with an increased risk of breast cancer, whereas whole milk
consumption was inversely related to risk.160 Similarly, an inverse
association with milk consumption during childhood was found
among younger women (30 to 39 years), but not among older
premenopausal women (40 to 49 years) in a Norwegian cohort.161
Dietary habits during high school recalled by adult participants
of the Nurses’ Health Study II (but before the diagnosis of breast
cancer) suggested a positive association of total fat and red meat
consumption.31,32 More data are needed in this promising area
of research.162

DIETARY PATTERNS
Foods and nutrients are not consumed in isolation, and, when
evaluating the role of diet in disease prevention and causation, it is
sensible to consider the entire dietary pattern of individuals. Public
health messages may be better framed in the context of a global
diet than individual constituents.
The role of vegetarian diets for cancer incidence has been
examined in a few studies. In the Adventist Health Study-2, vegetarians had an 8% lower incidence of cancer than nonvegetarians (95%
CI, 1 to 15%).150 The protective association was strongest for cancers
of the gastrointestinal tract with 24% (95% CI, 10 to 37%). Vegans
had a 16% (95%, 1 to 28%) lower incidence of cancer, with a particular protection conferred to female cancers of 34% (95% CI, 8 to
53%). A combined analysis of data from the Oxford Vegetarian Study
and EPIC similarly suggest a 12% (95% CI, 4 to 19%) reduction in
cancer incidence among vegetarians compared to meat eaters.151
During the past decade, dietary pattern analyses have gained
popularity in observational studies. The most commonly employed
methods are factor analyses and cluster analyses, which are largely
data-driven methods, and investigator-determined methods such
as dietary indices and scores. The search for associations between
distinct patterns such as the “Western pattern,” which is characterized by a high consumption of red and processed meats; high
fat dairy products, including butter and eggs; and refined carbohydrates, such as sweets, desserts, and refined grains, and the
“prudent pattern,” which is defined by the frequent consumption
of a variety of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, legumes, fish,
and poultry, and the risk of cancer has been largely disappointing.
Notable exceptions were the link between a Western dietary pattern and colon cancer incidence and an inverse relation between
a prudent diet152 and estrogen-receptor–negative breast cancer.153
These findings were subsequently in the California Teachers
Study.154 The general lack of association between global dietary
patterns and cancer supports a more modest role of nutrition during adult life in carcinogenesis than previously assumed.

DIET DURING THE EARLY PHASES OF LIFE
Some cancers may originate early in the course of life. A high
birth weight is associated with an increase in the risk of childhood leukemia,155 premenopausal breast cancer,156 and testicular

DIET AFTER A DIAGNOSIS OF CANCER
The role of diet in the secondary prevention of cancer recurrence
and survival is generally of great interest to cancer patients because
they are highly motivated to make lifestyle changes to optimize
their prognosis. The compliance of cancer patients makes the
RCTs a more feasible design to evaluate the role of diet than
among healthy individuals. However, concurrent cancer treatments may make any effect of diet more difficult to isolate.
Most evidence is available for breast cancer, colorectal, and
prostate cancer. Observational data suggest a limited role of diet
in the prevention of breast cancer recurrence and survival. The
Life After Cancer Epidemiology (LACE) Cohort supported
a beneficial role for vitamin C and E supplement use but the
effect of other health-seeking behaviors is difficult to exclude.163
In a pooled analysis, alcohol consumption after a diagnosis did
not affect survival.164 Several randomized trials have addressed
the role of diet in breast cancer prognosis. In the Women’s
Intervention Nutrition Study (WINS), 2,437 women with early
stage breast cancer were randomized to a dietary goal of 15%
of calories from fat or maintenance of their usual dietary habits.165 The intervention group received dietary counseling by registered dieticians and, according to self-reports, a difference of
19 g in daily fat intake was maintained between the intervention
and the control group after 60 months of follow-up. However, at
that time, women in the intervention group were also 6 pounds
lighter, making it difficult to separate an effect of dietary fat from
a nonspecific effect of intensive dietary intervention, which
quite consistently produces weight loss. Breast cancer recurrence was 29% lower in the intervention group (95% CI, 6% to
47%), whereas overall survival was not affected. In the Women’s
Healthy Eating and Living (WHEL) RCT, 3,088 early stage
breast cancer patients were randomly assigned to a target of five
vegetable servings, three fruit servings, 30 g fiber per day, and
15% to 20% of calories from fat.166 After 72 months, the intervention versus control group reports were 5.8 versus 3.6 servings of
vegetables, 3.4 versus 2.6 servings of fruit, 24.2 versus 18.9 g fiber
per day, and 28.9% versus 32.4% of calories from fat. The total
plasma carotenoid concentration, a biomarker of vegetable and
fruit intake, was 43% higher in the intervention group than the
comparison group after 4 years (p<0.001). Neither recurrence

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

rates nor mortality were affected by the intervention after the
7.3-year follow-up. Overall, diet is unlikely a major factor influencing breast cancer prognosis. However, because the prognosis
for breast cancer is relatively good, women diagnosed with breast
cancer remain at risk for cardiovascular disease and other causes
of death that affect those without breast cancer. Thus, among
women in the Nurses’ Health Study diagnosed with breast cancer, a higher diet quality, which was assessed by the Alternative
Healthy Eating Index, was not associated with mortality due to
breast cancer but was associated with substantially lower mortality due to other causes.167 Similarly, among over 4,000 women
with breast cancer, intakes of saturated and trans fat, but not of
total fat, were associated with significantly greater total mortality
but not specifically breast cancer mortality. Thus, there is good
reason for women with breast cancer to adopt a healthy diet even
if it does not affect the prognosis of breast cancer.
In a systematic review, no consistent association between individual dietary components and colorectal cancer prognosis outcome was found.168 However, in an observational study including
1,009 patients with stage III colon cancer, a Western dietary pattern was associated with lower rates of disease-free survival, recurrence-free survival, and overall survivals.169 In the same patient
population, higher dietary glycemic load and total carbohydrate
intake were significantly associated with an increased risk of recurrence and mortality.170 These findings support a possible role of
glycemic load in colon cancer progression.
In the Physician’s Health Study, whole milk consumption
among men with incident prostate cancer was associated with
double the risk of progression to fatal disease.171 Among men
with nonmetastatic prostate cancer in the Health Professionals’
Follow-up Study, replacing 10% of energy intake from carbohydrates with vegetable fat was associated with a lower risk of lethal
prostate cancer.172 A marginally increased risk of progression of
localized to lethal prostate cancer among these men was also
associated with postdiagnostic poultry and processed red meat
consumption,173 whereas postdiagnostic consumption of fish and
tomato sauce were inversely related with a risk of progression.174
In an intervention study, 93 patients with early stage prostate
cancer (PSA = 4 to 10 ng per mililiter and Gleason score <7)
were randomized to comprehensive lifestyle changes, including
a vegan diet based on 10% of calories from fat and consisting
predominantly of vegetables, fruit, whole grains, legumes, and
soy protein.175 Other interventions included moderate exercise,
stress management, and relaxation. After 1 year, PSA values decreased 4% in the intervention group, but increased 6% in the
control group. Six patients in the control group, but none in
the experimental group, underwent conventional prostate cancer treatment. Although the impact of the different intervention
components are difficult to separate in this study, further data on
diet and the prognosis for patients with localized prostate cancer
are needed.

SUMMARY
A considerable proportion of cancers are potentially preventable
through lifestyle changes. Besides a curtailment of smoking, the
most important strategies are maintaining a healthy body weight
and regular physical activity, which contribute to a lower prevalence of being overweight and obesity. The avoidance of a positive
energy balance and becoming overweight are the most important
nutritional factors in cancer prevention.
Although dietary patterns, including frequent fruit and vegetable consumption, appear to play a modest role in cancer prevention, knowledge gained about some specific foods and nutrients
might inform a targeted approach. Vitamin D is a strong candidate
to counter carcinogenesis, thus supplementation could be a feasible and safe route to avoid several types of cancer. Although the
data on vitamin D and cancer incidence are not conclusive, the

111

prevention of bone fractures is a sufficient reason to maintain good
vitamin D status.
Limiting or avoiding red meat, processed meat, and alcohol
reduces the risk of breast, colorectal, stomach, esophageal, and
other cancers. Although the role of dairy products and milk remains to be more fully elucidated, current evidence suggests a
probable increase in the risk of prostate cancer with frequent milk
consumption, and possibly endometrial cancer, which raises concern regarding current dietary recommendations of three glasses of
milk per day. The relation of calcium and dairy intake to cancer is
complex, as the evidence for a reduction in the risk of colorectal
cancer is strong, but high intakes appear likely to increase the risk
of fatal prostate cancer. The consumption of tomato-based products may contribute to the prevention of prostate cancer. Finally,
diet may influence the prognosis of colorectal and prostate cancer,
but more data are needed in this area. Because most people with
cancer remain at risk of cardiovascular disease and other common
conditions related to unhealthy diets, an overall healthy diet can be
recommended while further research on diet and cancer survival
is ongoing.

LIMITATIONS
Studying the role of diet in health and disease requires overcoming a number of hurdles. Because biomarkers reflecting nutrient
intake with sufficient accuracy are largely lacking, assessing nutrition in a population-based study has to rely on self-reports by
individuals, which inevitably leads to imprecision or error in the
diet assessment. Such misclassification may produce spurious associations in case-control studies or may lead to an underestimation
of true associations in prospective cohort studies. Ideally, hypotheses relating dietary factors to cancer risks would be tested in large
randomized trials. Besides being extremely expensive, maintaining
adherence to assigned diets has been challenging; for example, in
the WHI trial that focused on dietary fat reduction, there were no
differences between intervention and control groups in blood lipid
fractions that are known to change with a reduction in fat intake,
indicating a failure to test the hypothesis.28
Most observational studies are conducted within populations or
countries. Although reasonable variations in nutritional habits exist
within populations, allowing for the detection of substantial dietary
risk factors for cardiovascular disease and diabetes, these contrasts
may be too limited to detect small relative risks as they may exist
for cancer. The pooled analysis of large prospective cohort studies
across countries and continents attempts to overcome this limitation. Studies taking advantage of the large between-population
variation in diets across developed and developing countries would
appear to be advantageous, but would be plagued by confounding
by other differences in lifestyle factors that might be difficult to
assess and control adequately.
Few epidemiologic studies repeatedly capture dietary habits
over time and thus account for potential changes in diet over time.
Furthermore, the length of follow-up in prospective studies may
not be sufficient to capture the impact of diets assessed at baseline.
In case-control studies, a recall of dietary habits prior to the disease
onset may be influenced by current disease status; moreover, the
relevant time for nutrition to act may be decades earlier, which is
more difficult to remember.
Most epidemiologic studies of diet and cancer have assessed
intake among adults. Due to greater susceptibility to genotoxic
influences earlier in life, it is possible that data on diet during
childhood or early adolescence are more relevant for carcinogenesis and cancer prevention. Studies that have collected dietary data
during childhood and followed the subjects for cancer incidence
would be most informative but are virtually nonexistent and will
be challenging to conduct.
Finally, data on special diets including organic foods, whole
foods, raw foods, and a vegan diet are limited.

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chapter 9 Dietary Factors

112

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
Some of the most promising research at present is in the areas of
vitamin D, milk consumption, and the effect of diet early in life
on cancer incidence. Recent nutrition changes in countries previously maintaining a more traditional diet such as Japan and some
developing countries have already been followed by increased
rates of some cancers (but declines in stomach cancer), providing a setting to study the effect of change over time. Additional
insight may come from studies on gene–nutrient interaction and
epigenetic changes induced by the diet. To improve observational
research methods, refined dietary assessment methods, including
the identification of new biomarkers, will be advantageous.

RECOMMENDATIONS
A wealth of data are available from observational studies on diet
and cancer, and the current evidence supports suggestions made
by Doll and Peto1 that approximately 30% to 40% of cancers may
be avoidable with changes in nutrition; however, much of this risk
of cancer is related to being overweight and to inactivity. Excessive energy intake and lack of physical activity, marked by rapid
growth in childhood and being overweight, have become growing threats to population health and are important contributors to
risks of many cancers. Nevertheless, the cumulative incidence for
many cancers has decreased over the past decade, in part due to
the decreasing prevalence of smoking and use of hormone therapy.
Dietary recommendations must integrate the goal of overall
avoidance of disease and maintenance of health and, thus, should
not focus singularly on cancer prevention. The strength of the evidence and magnitude of the expected benefit should also be considered in recommendations. With these considerations in mind,
the following recommendations are outlined, which are largely in
agreement with the guidelines put forth by the American Cancer
Society in 2012:176
1. Engage in regular physical activity. Physical activity is a primary
method of weight control and it also reduces risk of several

S E L E C T E D
The full reference list can be accessed at lwwhealthlibrary.com/oncology.
1. Doll R, Peto R. The causes of cancer: quantitative estimates of avoidable risks
of cancer in the United States today. J Natl Cancer Inst 1981;66:1191–1308.
2. Armstrong B, Doll R. Environmental factors and cancer incidence and mortality in different countries, with special reference to dietary practices. Int
J Cancer 1975;15:617–631.
3. Giovannucci E, Stampfer MJ, Colditz GA, et al. A comparison of prospective and retrospective assessments of diet in the study of breast cancer. Am
J Epidemiol 1993;137:502–511.
5. Prentice RL, Caan B, Chlebowski RT, et al. Low-fat dietary pattern and risk
of invasive breast cancer: the Women’s Health Initiative Randomized Controlled Dietary Modification Trial. JAMA 2006;295:629–642.
6. Michels KB, Bingham SA, Luben R, et al. The effect of correlated measurement error in multivariate models of diet. Am J Epidemiol 2004;160:59–67.
7. Willett W. Nutritional Epidemiology. 3rd ed. New York: Oxford University
Press; 2013.
11. Eliassen AH, Colditz GA, Rosner B, et al. Adult weight change and risk of
postmenopausal breast cancer. JAMA 2006;296:193–201.
12. Michels KB, Ekbom A. Caloric restriction and incidence of breast cancer.
JAMA 2004;291:1226–1230.
13. Elias SG, Peeters PH, Grobbee DE, et al. Breast cancer risk after caloric
restriction during the 1944–1945 Dutch famine. J Natl Cancer Inst 2004;96:
539–546.
15. World Cancer Research Fund/American Institute for Cancer Research. Food,
Nutrition, Physical Activity, and the Prevention of Cancer: A Global Perspective. Washington, D.C.: AICR; 2007.
16. Zhang S, Hunter DJ, Hankinson SE, et al. A prospective study of folate
intake and the risk of breast cancer. JAMA 1999;281:1632–1637.

cancers, especially colon cancer, through independent mechanisms. Moderate to vigorous exercise for at least 30 minutes
on most days is a minimum and more will provide additional
benefits.
2. Avoid being overweight and weight gain in adulthood. A positive energy balance that results in excess body fat is one of the
most important contributors to cancer risk. Staying within
10 pounds of body weight at age 20 may be a simple guide,
assuming no adolescent obesity.
3. Limit alcohol consumption. Alcohol consumption contributes to the risk of many cancers and increases the risk of
accidents and addiction, but low to moderate consumption
has benefits for coronary heart disease risk. The individual
family history of disease as well as personal preferences
should be considered.
4. Consume lots of fruits and vegetables. Frequent consumption
of fruits and vegetables during adult life is not likely to have a
major effect on cancer incidence, but will reduce the risk of
cardiovascular disease.
5. Consume whole grains and avoid refined carbohydrates and
sugars. A regular consumption of whole grain products instead
of refined flour and a low consumption of refined sugars lower
the risk of cardiovascular disease and diabetes. The effect on
cancer risk is less clear.
6. Replace red meat and dairy products with fish, nuts, and legumes.
Red meat consumption increases the risk of colorectal cancer,
diabetes, and coronary heart disease and should be largely
avoided. Frequent dairy consumption may increase the risk of
prostate cancer. Fish, nuts, and legumes are excellent sources of
valuable mono- and polyunsaturated fats and vegetable proteins
and may contribute to lower rates of cardiovascular disease and
diabetes.
7. Consider taking a vitamin D supplement. A substantial proportion of the population, especially those living at higher latitudes, are vitamin D deficient. Most adults may benefit from
taking 1,000 IU of vitamin D3 per day during months of low
sunlight intensity. Vitamin D supplementation will, at a minimum, reduce bone fracture rates, probably colorectal cancer
incidence, and possibly other cancers.

R E F E R E N C E S
18. Kolonel L, Hinds M, Hankin J. Cancer Patterns Among Migrant and NativeBorn Japanese in Hawaii in Relation to Smoking, Drinking, and Dietary
Habits. Tokyo: Japan Scientific Societies Press; 1980.
23. Hunter DJ, Spiegelman D, Adami HO, et al. Cohort studies of fat intake and
the risk of breast cancer—a pooled analysis. N Engl J Med 1996;334:356–361.
27. Michels KB. The women’s health initiative—curse or blessing? Int J
Epidemiol 2006;35:814–816.
28. Michels KB, Willett WC. The Women’s Health Initiative Randomized Controlled Dietary Modification Trial: a post-mortem. Breast Cancer Res Treat
2009;114:1–6.
38. Dietary Guidelines for Americans. DietaryGuidelines.gov Web site. http://
www.health.gov/dietaryguidelines/.
46. Michels KB, Edward G, Joshipura KJ, et al. Prospective study of fruit and
vegetable consumption and incidence of colon and rectal cancers. J Natl
Cancer Inst 2000;92:1740–1752.
61. Michels KB, Fuchs CS, Giovannucci E, et al. Fiber intake and incidence of
colorectal cancer among 76,947 women and 47,279 men. Cancer Epidemiol
Biomarkers Prev 2005;14:842–849.
62. Park Y, Hunter DJ, Spiegelman D, et al. Dietary fiber intake and risk of
colorectal cancer: a pooled analysis of prospective cohort studies. JAMA
2005;294:2849–2857.
81. Baron JA, Beach M, Mandel JS, et al. Calcium supplements for the prevention of colorectal adenomas. Calcium Polyp Prevention Study Group.
N Engl J Med 1999;340:101–107.
92. Gao X, LaValley MP, Tucker KL. Prospective studies of dairy product and
calcium intakes and prostate cancer risk: a meta-analysis. J Natl Cancer Inst
2005;97:1768–1777.
98. Garland CF, Garland FC. Do sunlight and vitamin D reduce the likelihood
of colon cancer? Int J Epidemiol 1980;9:227–231.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

104. Gorham ED, Garland CF, Garland FC, et al. Optimal vitamin D status for
colorectal cancer prevention: a quantitative meta analysis. Am J Prev Med
2007;32:210–216.
120. Kim D, Smith-Warner S, Spiegelman D, et al. Pooled analysis of 13 prospective cohort studies on folate and colon cancer. Cancer Causes Control
2010;21:1919–1930.
122. Osterhues A, Holzgreve W, Michels KB. Shall we put the world on folate?
Lancet 2009;374:959–961.
123. Friso S, Choi SW, Girelli D, et al. A common mutation in the 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene affects genomic DNA methylation
through an interaction with folate status. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2002;99:
5606–5611.
124. Kim YI. Folate: a magic bullet or a double edged sword for colorectal cancer
prevention? Gut 2006;55:1387–1389.
125. Mason JB. Folate, cancer risk, and the Greek god, Proteus: a tale of two chameleons. Nutr Rev 2009;67:206–212.
126. Wu K, Platz EA, Willett W, et al. A randomized trial on folic acid supplementation and risk of recurrent colorectal adenoma. Am J Clin Nutr 2009;
90:1623–1631.
127. Cole BF, Baron JA, Sandler RS, et al. Folic acid for the prevention of colorectal adenomas: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2007;297:2351–2359.
128. Mason JB, Dickstein A, Jacques PF, et al. A temporal association between
folic acid fortification and an increase in colorectal cancer rates may be
illuminating important biological principles: a hypothesis. Cancer Epidemiol
Biomarkers Prev 2007;16:1325–1329.
129. The effect of vitamin E and beta carotene on the incidence of lung cancer
and other cancers in male smokers. The Alpha-Tocopherol, Beta Carotene
Cancer Prevention Study Group. N Engl J Med 1994;330:1029–1035.
130. Virtamo J, Pietinen P, Huttunen JK, et al. Incidence of cancer and mortality
following alpha-tocopherol and beta-carotene supplementation: a postintervention follow-up. JAMA 2003;290:476–485.
131. Mannisto S, Smith-Warner SA, Spiegelman D, et al. Dietary carotenoids
and risk of lung cancer in a pooled analysis of seven cohort studies. Cancer
Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 2004;13:40–48.
134. Giovannucci E. Tomatoes, tomato-based products, lycopene, and cancer:
review of the epidemiologic literature. J Natl Cancer Inst 1999;91:317–331.
138. Hurst R, Hooper L, Norat T, et al. Selenium and prostate cancer: systematic
review and meta-analysis. Am J Clinical Nutr 2012;96:111–122.

113

155. Caughey RW, Michels KB. Birth weight and childhood leukemia: a metaanalysis and review of the current evidence. Int J Cancer 2009;124:2658–2670.
156. Michels KB, Xue F. Role of birthweight in the etiology of breast cancer. Int
J Cancer 2006;119:2007–2025.
157. Michos A, Xue F, Michels KB. Birth weight and the risk of testicular cancer:
a meta-analysis. Int J Cancer 2007;121:1123–1131.
158. Chavarro JE, Rosner BA, Sampson L, et al. Validity of adolescent diet recall
48 years later. Am J Epidemiol 2009;170:1563–1570.
160. Michels KB, Rosner BA, Chumlea WC, et al. Preschool diet and adult risk of
breast cancer. Int J Cancer 2006;118:749–754.
162. Michels KB, Mohllajee AP, Roset-Bahmanyar E, et al. Diet and breast
cancer: a review of the prospective observational studies. Cancer 2007;109:
2712–2749.
165. Chlebowski RT, Blackburn GL, Thomson CA, et al. Dietary fat reduction
and breast cancer outcome: interim efficacy results from the Women’s Intervention Nutrition Study. J Natl Cancer Inst 2006;98:1767–1776.
166. Pierce JP, Natarajan L, Caan BJ, et al. Influence of a diet very high in vegetables, fruit, and fiber and low in fat on prognosis following treatment for
breast cancer: the Women’s Healthy Eating and Living (WHEL) randomized
trial. JAMA 2007;298:289–298.
168. van Meer S, Leufkens AM, Bueno-de-Mesquita HB, et al. Role of dietary
factors in survival and mortality in colorectal cancer: a systematic review.
Nutrition Rev 2013;71:631–641.
169. Meyerhardt JA, Niedzwiecki D, Hollis D, et al. Association of dietary patterns
with cancer recurrence and survival in patients with stage III colon cancer.
JAMA 2007;298:754–764.
170. Meyerhardt JA, Sato K, Niedzwiecki D, et al. Dietary glycemic load and cancer recurrence and survival in patients with stage III colon cancer: findings
from CALGB 89803. J Natl Cancer Inst 2012;104:1702–1711.
172. Richman EL, Kenfield SA, Chavarro JE, et al. Fat intake after diagnosis
and risk of lethal prostate cancer and all-cause mortality. JAMA Intern Med
2013;173:1318–1326.
175. Ornish D, Weidner G, Fair WR, et al. Intensive lifestyle changes may affect
the progression of prostate cancer. J Urol 2005;174:1065–1070.
176. Kushi LH, Doyle C, McCullough M, et al. American Cancer Society Guidelines on nutrition and physical activity for cancer prevention: reducing the
risk of cancer with healthy food choices and physical activity. CA Cancer
J Clin 2012;62:30–67.

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chapter 9 Dietary Factors

10

Obesity and Physical Activity
y

Yani Lu, Jessica Clague, and Leslie Bernstein

INTRODUCTION
Evidence showing that physical activity is associated with decreased
cancer risk and that obesity is associated with increased cancer risk
at certain sites is rapidly accumulating. It is not yet known whether
these two factors are interrelated or independent. Physical activity
may act to decrease cancer risk primarily by preventing weight gain
and obesity. However, physical activity may also have independent
effects on cancer risk. In this chapter, we present a summary of the
current epidemiologic literature on the possible associations between
physical activity and obesity and risk of cancer at several organ sites.
Physical activity is defined as any movement of the body that results in energy expenditure. In this chapter, we focus on recreational
physical activity, also called leisure-time physical activity or exercise,
and occupational physical activity, including household activity.1 Occupational physical activity typically occurs over a longer period of
time and generally requires less energy expenditure per hour than
bouts of strenuous or moderate recreational physical activity. The distinction between recreational and occupational activity is important
because increasing mechanization and technologic advances have led
to decreased occupational physical activity in developed areas of the
world, perhaps contributing to a decrease in overall physical activity.
Obesity is defined as the condition of being extremely overweight. In epidemiologic studies, the usual, but not necessarily the
best, measure of body mass in adults is Quetelet’s Index, or body
mass index (BMI), which is measured as weight in kilograms (kg)
divided by the square of height in meters (m2). In the year spanning
2009 to 2010, the prevalence of obesity, defined by having a BMI
of 30 kg/m2 or greater, in the US population was 35.5% for adult
men and 35.8% for adult women.2 Physical inactivity has likely
contributed to the high prevalence of obesity in the United States;
data from the 2003 to 2004 National Health and Nutritional Examination Survey, a cross-sectional study of a sample of the civilian,
noninstitutionalized population of the United States, has indicated
that less than 5% of US adults achieve 30 minutes per day of physical activity, and that men are more physically active than women.3
Epidemiologic evidence on the associations of physical activity
and obesity with cancer come from observational studies, including cohort studies, which follow populations forward in time after
collecting exposure information, and case-control studies, which
optimally identify a population-based series of newly diagnosed
cases and healthy control subjects, collecting information retrospectively on exposures. In both study designs, physical activity information is usually self-reported and measures vary substantially
with respect to timing and level of detail. Studies have measured
lifetime or long-term physical activity, activity at defined ages or
time points in life, and/or current or recent activity. Ideally, a study
would capture activity by type (recreational, occupational, or
other, such as an activity related to transportation), duration (minutes per session), frequency (sessions per day), and intensity (low,
moderate, or strenuous as defined by examples of activity types)
across the lifetime. These studies have often measured height
and weight by self-report at one time point, such as at the time of
study entry. Some studies have collected other or more detailed

anthropometric information, such as waist circumference, hip circumference, or weight at an additional time point like at age 18.
Anthropometrics are directly measured by trained study personnel
in only a few studies.
Epidemiologic evidence for a role of physical activity or obesity
in relation to cancer risk exists for cancers of the breast, colon, endometrium, esophagus, kidney, and pancreatic cancer. Evidence
is accumulating to link at least one of these “exposures” to the incidence of gallbladder cancer, non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL),
and advanced prostate cancer. The evidence for an association
between either physical activity or obesity and lung and ovarian
cancer is inconclusive.
In addition to specific biologic mechanisms pertinent to physical
activity or to obesity at each specific organ site, several global mechanisms have been implicated in both relationships across a number
of these organ sites. The steroid hormone and insulin/insulinlike
growth factor (IGF) pathways are two such global mechanisms hypothesized to be involved in the links between physical activity or
obesity and cancer.4 The role of steroid hormones as a mediator in
these relationships is perhaps best understood in the context of breast
cancer and endometrial cancer, and will be discussed in those sections. The roles of the insulin and IGF pathways have been discussed
in depth with respect to colon cancer and, thus, will be presented
in that context. Other global mechanisms have been proposed that
have more generalized anticancer impacts and may explain associations between physical activity and several cancer sites; these
include heightening immune surveillance, reducing inflammation,
increasing insulin sensitivity, controlling growth factor production
and activation, decreasing obesity and central adiposity, optimizing
DNA repair capacity, and reducing oxidative stress.5,6 Further, obesity has been shown to produce a proinflammatory state and, thus,
inflammation may mediate the relationship between obesity and
cancer risk.7 It is highly plausible that several of these mechanisms
act simultaneously and that they interact synergistically to mediate
the associations between physical activity, obesity, and cancer.

BREAST CANCER
Low level of physical activity is an established breast cancer risk
factor among postmenopausal women and, to a lesser extent, premenopausal women.4,8,9 The evidence for an association between
physical activity and breast cancer has been classified as convincing, with a 20% to 40% reduced risk among physically active
women.10 Obesity appears to have a paradoxical relationship with
breast cancer risk in that it is an established breast cancer risk factor among postmenopausal women, but may offer some protection
for breast cancer among premenopausal women.4
The epidemiologic literature has shown with relative consistency that breast cancer risk is reduced by increasing one’s
amount of physical activity.4,8,9,11–13 One of the earliest studies, a
case-control study of women age 40 years or younger, showed a
dramatic reduction in risk of approximately 50% among women
who averaged about 4 hours of activity per week during their

114
tahir99 - UnitedVRG

reproductive years.14 Similarly, among postmenopausal women,
those with higher levels of recreational physical activity during
their lifetimes have been shown to have lower breast cancer risk.15
A meta-analysis of 29 case-control studies and 19 cohort studies
published between 1994 and 2006 provided strong evidence for an
inverse association between physical activity and risk of breast cancer, citing that the evidence for an association between physical
activity and premenopausal breast cancer was not as strong as that
for postmenopausal breast cancer.8 The conclusion of the metaanalysis was that each additional hour of physical activity per week
decreases breast cancer by approximately 6%.
Epidemiologists require that a risk factor demonstrate consistency
across populations before considering it as accepted. Recently, studies have been published on the association between physical activity and breast cancer risk among Japanese,16 Chinese,17 Mexican,18
Tunisian,19 and African American women.20 All studies showed a
decreased risk of breast cancer with increasing physical activity. Interestingly, both Suzuki et al.17 and Pronk et al.21 observed the strongest associations among “heavier” women (BMI ≥25 kg/m2 and
23.73 kg/m2, respectively). In the California Teachers Study (CTS),
a prospective cohort study of over 133,000 female public school professionals, a variable combining strenuous and moderate long-term
recreational physical activity was associated with a reduced risk of
estrogen receptor (ER)-negative but not ER-positive invasive breast
cancer.11 On the contrary, the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) observed decreases in breast cancer risk associated with recreational
physical activity among postmenopausal women with ER-positive
breast cancer and triple negative breast cancer, with only results for
ER-positive breast cancer demonstrating a 15% statistically significant reduced risk (when comparing the highest versus lowest tertile
of moderate-intensity physical activity).22 Similar but not statistically
significant results were observed for strenuous recreational physical
activity.22 A major limitation to this and previous studies stratifying
by hormone receptor status is the inability to comprehensively classify triple negative breast cancer due to missing HER2 status (unknown in 40% of cases in the WHI study). The use of hormone
therapy did not alter the inverse association between recreational
physical activity and invasive breast cancer in the Women’s Contraceptive and Reproductive Experiences (CARE) Study.23 Most recently, in the American Cancer Society Cancer Prevention Study II
Nutrition Cohort, it was observed that postmenopausal women who
engage in at least 7 hours of walking over the course of a week had a
modest decreased risk of breast cancer, even in the absence of more
vigorous exercise.24 Further, this association did not differ by ER status, BMI, adult weight gain, postmenopausal hormone therapy use,
or time spent sitting.24
Lastly, whether physical activity reduces breast cancer risk by
impacting preinvasive disease has been studied by assessing the associations with in situ breast cancer and benign breast disease. In
the CTS cohort, increasing levels of long-term strenuous recreational physical activity were associated with a decreasing risk of in
situ breast cancer.11 Furthermore, a report from the Nurses’ Health
Study II cohort showed that lifetime recreational physical activity
was associated with a decreased risk of benign breast disease and
columnar cell lesions, which may be precursors to breast cancer.25
In summary, epidemiologic studies investigating the association between physical activity and breast cancer risk have produced relatively consistent results showing a reduction in breast
cancer risk with increasing level of physical activity. Results to date
suggest that moderate-to-strenuous activity may be required for the
effect between physical activity and breast cancer risk to be clear;
however, clarification of other key details, such as the importance
of timing and intensity of activity or variation in effects by tumor
characteristics, is pending.
Adult obesity and adult weight gain have both been associated with increased breast cancer risk among postmenopausal
women, especially among women who were not current users
of menopausal hormone therapy.4,26,27 Most studies among
postmenopausal women show a 1.5- to 2-fold increase in risk of

115

invasive breast cancer when comparing the most obese women or
those with the largest weight gain to normal-weight women (BMI:
18.5 to 24.9 kg/m2) or those with the least weight gain.4 Paradoxically, overweight or obese premenopausal women have a slightly
decreased risk of breast cancer compared with normal-weight or
thinner women. Whether larger waist circumference is more important than BMI has been studied in order to separate overall
weight gain from abdominal obesity (i.e., visceral fat, which is one
element of metabolic syndrome); however, most studies have reported a null association between waist circumference, used as a
surrogate for visceral fat, and risk of postmenopausal breast cancer
after adjustment for BMI.26 In contrast to the results for postmenopausal women, waist circumference and a positive association
with premenopausal breast cancer was found after adjustment
for BMI.26 A recent analysis of the Nurses’ Health Study suggests
that self-rated body fatness during youth and BMI at age 18 years
are both inversely associated with breast cancer risk, with similar
results for premenopausal and postmenopausal breast cancer.28
Hormones are central to the discussion of biologic mechanisms
linking both physical activity and obesity with breast cancer risk.
Physical activity can alter menstrual cycle patterns in premenopausal women, and hormone profiles in both premenopausal
and postmenopausal women. Physical activity may lower body fat
among children,29 which in turn may delay age at menarche.30
Later age at menarche has been associated with reduced breast
cancer risk.31 Physical activity may reduce the frequency of ovulatory cycles.32 Having less frequent and therefore fewer cumulative ovulatory cycles is likely to reduce the lifetime exposure of the
breast to endogenous ovarian hormones,31 which are proven proliferative agents.33 Physical activity also can have a direct impact
on circulating estrogen levels among postmenopausal women.34
In the postmenopausal period, adipose tissue is the primary
source of endogenous hormones via aromatization of androstenedione to estrone.35 Thus, heavier postmenopausal women have
higher levels of circulating estrogen than women with less adipose
tissue. The involvement of estrogen in the relationship between
obesity and breast cancer risk is supported by the observation that
obesity does not independently increase breast cancer risk among
menopausal hormone therapy users27; the obesity-related increase
in estrogen over that provided by exogenous estrogens is negligible.
The breast tissue of overweight or obese perimenopausal and postmenopausal women with relatively high risk of breast cancer has
been shown to have cytologic abnormalities and higher epithelial
cell counts than that of normal-weight women.36 In contrast, obese
premenopausal women experience menstrual cycle disturbances,
including anovulatory cycles and secondary amenorrhea, thereby
lowering their cumulative exposure to estradiol and progesterone.31 A possible explanation for the inverse association between
youth body fatness and breast cancer risk is that youth body size is
inversely associated with adult IGF-1 levels.28
Other likely mechanisms that may link physical activity37,38 and
obesity39,40 with breast cancer risk include aspects of immune function, inflammatory mechanisms, oxidative stress and DNA repair
capability, metabolic hormones, and growth factors.

COLON AND RECTAL CANCER
An inverse association between physical activity and colon cancer
risk has been consistently observed among epidemiologic studies;
however, the evidence for rectal cancer remains inconclusive.
Historically, comprehensive reviews have estimated that physical
activity may reduce colon cancer risk by 20% to 25% when comparing individuals with the highest levels to those with the lowest levels of activity.41 Risk reductions are greater for case-control
studies (24%) than for cohort studies (17%), and risk reductions
for occupational activity (22%) and recreational activity (23%) are
similar.41 In cohort studies, colon cancer risk reduction associated
with physical activity is greater for men than for women, which

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chapter 10 Obesity and Physical Activity

116

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

may be due to the influence of hormone therapy on colon cancer risk,42 although case-control studies suggest similar benefits for
men and women.43
Whether physical activity preferentially protects against proximal or distal colon cancer is of interest. A meta-analysis including
21 cohort and case-control studies that examined associations between physical activity and the risks of proximal colon and distal
colon cancers produced results suggesting that physical activity is
associated with a reduced risk of both proximal colon and distal
colon cancers, and that the magnitude of the association does not
differ by subsite.44
Although the majority of previous studies have not found an
association between physical activity and rectal cancer,41 the
National Institutes of Health (NIH)–AARP Diet and Health Study
observed a modest reduction in rectal cancer risk for men but not
for women after 6.9 years of follow-up.45 Further, in a case-control
study conducted in Australia, rectal cancer risk was reduced
among men but not among women who participated in vigorous
recreational physical activity averaging at least 6 metabolic equivalent task (MET)-hours per week during their adult years.46
An emphasis has been made on trying to identify risk factors for
colon adenomas, which are considered precursor lesions for colon
cancer; these are detected and removed during colonoscopy or
sigmoidoscopy. Wolin et al. conducted a meta-analysis of 20 studies published through April 2010 that investigated the association
between recreational physical activity and colon adenomas.47
Adenoma risk was reduced by 19% among men and by 13% among
women and, when combining men and women, the inverse association with physical activity was strongest for large/advanced polyps.
Obesity is an established risk factor for colon cancer in both
men and women, although the relative risks for men have been
higher than those for women.4,26 The adverse impact of being overweight or obese on colon cancer risk is stronger for distal than for
proximal colon cancers. In addition, visceral adiposity appears to
confer greater risk than general adiposity.26 In the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC) study,
abdominal obesity as well as adult weight gain were strongly associated with colon cancer risk in both men and women.48,49 No association between these adiposity measures and colon cancer risk
was evident among postmenopausal women who had used menopausal hormone therapy, and no association was observed between
any measure of adiposity and rectal cancer risk.48 The positive
association between obesity and risk of colon cancer was further
supported by the findings that both general obesity and abdominal
obesity increase the risk of colon adenomas47 with one study of
women indicating that the distal colon is the main target site.50
Given that a higher BMI and lack of physical activity are both
risk factors for colon cancer, several statistical approaches have
been employed to tease apart their joint and independent effects
on colon cancer risk. In the Netherlands Cohort Study,51 colorectal cancer risk was increased at each subsite among larger women
in the lowest recreational activity category (<30 minutes per day)
than in smaller women in the highest recreational activity category
(>90 minutes per day); however, the interaction between physical
activity and body size was statistically significant only for proximal
tumors. Using different fatness measures for men, the only similar finding was that men with low levels of physical activity whose
trouser size was below the median of that for the cohort had an
increased risk of distal colon cancer; no differences in risk were
noted for other subsites or for men with larger trouser sizes.51
The mechanisms explaining the relationship between physical
activity and colon cancer are not clearly established, but include
the impact on insulin sensitivity and IGF profiles, and inflammation, as well as some colon-specific mechanisms. Physical activity
may stimulate stool transit in the colon, thereby decreasing the
exposure of colonic mucosa to carcinogens in the stool.6 Alternatively, physical activity–induced decreases in prostaglandin E2
may decrease colonic cell proliferation rates and increase colonic
motility.6 In addition to steroid hormones, which have been clearly

implicated as biologic modifiers of the effect of physical activity
and obesity on colon cancer risk, the insulin and IGF pathways
may mediate the associations between these exposures and colon
cancer risk. For obesity in particular, the link can be inferred because obesity can lead to insulin resistance,52 a syndrome characterized by high circulating insulin levels. High insulin levels
appear to promote cell proliferation and tumor growth in the
colon7 and may also suppress the expression of IGF-binding proteins 1 and 2, leading to increased bioavailable IGF-1 levels.53
Another possible mechanism is obesity-enhanced inflammation in
which increases in adipose tissue macrophages lead to the secretion of inflammatory cytokines associated with colon cancer risk
(e.g., tumor necrosis factor [TNF]-α, monocyte chemoattractant
protein [MCP]-1, and interleukin [IL]-6).

ENDOMETRIAL CANCER
The evidence for an association between physical activity and endometrial cancer risk is accumulating4,54–58 but is not definitive.
A meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies results published
through 2009 indicates that recreational physical activity lowers endometrial cancer risk by 27%, and occupational activity lowers risk
by 21%.59 Adjustments for BMI minimally change relative risk estimates, suggesting that physical activity is independently associated
with endometrial cancer. Although physical activity is associated
with a decreased risk of endometrial cancer in both normal-weight
and obese women, two recent studies have suggested that this association is more pronounced for obese women.54,58
Two meta-analyses of the association between physical activity
and endometrial cancer have identified some inconsistencies in
dose-response relationships, indicating the importance of differences in activity type and intensity.55,56 Little evidence exists on
how long-term or lifetime physical activity and activity patterns
during different life periods might influence endometrial cancer
risk; it has been suggested that recent or long-term activity might
be more important than activity at early ages.56 In the CTS, higher
levels of recent (at cohort formation) strenuous recreational physical activity was associated with lower levels of endometrial cancer risk; among women exercising >3 hours per week per year,
risk was approximately 25% lower than that of women exercising
<0.5 hour per week per year.60 This inverse association was limited to overweight and obese women (BMI ≥25 kg/m2). Finally,
sitting time has been independently associated with increased
endometrial cancer risk.59
Epidemiologic studies have established a strong association between obesity and endometrial cancer risk.26 Recent studies have
suggested a linear trend between increasing body weight or BMI
and increasing endometrial cancer risk among postmenopausal
women, whereas among premenopausal women, no trend is observed, but rather, only obese women have an increased risk.26 Furthermore, the strong association among postmenopausal women is
only observed among those who are not using hormone therapy.26
Finally, BMI appears to exert an effect on the risk of endometrial
cancer that is independent of physical activity.55
Physical activity and obesity are likely to influence endometrial
cancer risk by altering endogenous hormone profiles.31,53 Heavier
postmenopausal women have higher circulating levels of estrogen
than do lighter postmenopausal women because of the aromatization of androstenedione to estrone in adipose tissue. This is pertinent to endometrial cancer risk because this aromatization occurs
in the absence of progesterone, which opposes the proliferative
effects of estrogen on endometrial tissue. Physical activity may
counter the proliferative effects of estrogen either directly or by
restricting weight gain. Some evidence also links elevated insulin
levels and diabetes to endometrial cancer risk.61 Physical inactivity
and obesity play a role in the development of insulin insensitivity
and diabetes, providing another mechanism by which they may
influence endometrial cancer risk.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

ADENOCARCINOMA OF THE ESOPHAGUS
Several case-control studies62–64 and one cohort study65 have examined the association between physical activity and risk of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus. Zhang et al.62 reported a modest
association between participation in recreational physical activity
more than once per week and a decreased risk of all esophageal
cancer (adenocarcinomas and squamous cell tumors), although
the result was not statistically significant. Lagergren et al.63 reported
no association between total, usual recreational and occupational
physical activity and esophageal adenocarcinoma. Vigen et al.64
showed that lifetime occupational physical activity was modestly
associated with a lower risk of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus:
the average annual level of occupational physical activity before
age 65 years was associated with an approximately 40% reduction in risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma when the highest was
compared with the lowest occupational physical activity category.
Results from the NIH–AARP Diet and Health Study also support
the hypothesis that physical activity lowers the risk of esophageal
adenocarcinoma, but no association between physical activity and
the risk of squamous cell esophageal cancer was found.65
Obesity is strongly associated with an increased risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma.66,67 A pooled analysis of existing data
showed that individuals with severe obesity (BMI ≥40 kg/m2) had
a 4.8-fold greater risk than individuals who were not overweight
(BMI <25 kg/m2), with similar risk estimates for men and
women.68 Several studies have examined the effect of abdominal
adiposity, which have suggested that the risk associated with obesity is driven primarily by abdominal fatness.26
It is likely that obesity impacts esophageal adenocarcinoma
risk because it is associated with the risk of gastroesophageal reflux
disease (GERD). GERD may cause changes in the esophageal epithelium, leading to Barrett esophagus, a well-established precancerous condition for esophageal adenocarcinoma. On the other
hand, obesity is associated with a systemic inflammatory state,
which includes the exposure to adipocytokines and procoagulant
factors released by adipocytes in central fat, which may also contribute to the development of esophageal adenocarcinoma.67 Physical activity may influence the risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma
by increasing digestive track transit time, thus reducing exposure
of the esophagus to putative cancer-causing agents.

117

ies of pancreatic cancer showed that higher total lifetime physical activity and occupational activity were associated with a lower
risk.71 Nonsignificant reductions in risk were observed for recreational physical activity and transportation (walking and cycling
as a form of commuting). Significant heterogeneity was present
across the studies, making it difficult to find a definitive answer.
Evidence indicating that obesity is a risk factor for pancreatic
cancer is convincing. Three large pooled analyses and three of
four meta-analyses that encompass a range of well-designed, independent observational epidemiologic studies have demonstrated a
positive association between obesity and pancreatic cancer risk.72,73
Effects were relatively consistent across studies, with an approximate 10% or greater increase in risk for every 5 kg/m2 increase in
BMI. Two of the pooled analyses and one of the meta-analyses
assessed measures of adiposity such as waist circumference or
waist-to-hip ratio (WHR); each of the results suggested positive
associations with pancreatic cancer risk.72,74,75 The pooled analyses reported at least a 35% greater risk when the fourth quartile of
WHR was compared to the first quartile. The meta-analysis study
reported an 11% increase in risk associated with each 10-cm increase in waist circumference and a 19% increase in risk for each
0.1-unit increment in WHR.

GALLBLADDER CANCER
Gallbladder cancer occurs more frequently in women than in
men, and the major risk factor is a history of gallstones,10 which has
been associated with the use of exogenous estrogens.76 To date, we
have found no epidemiologic literature investigating the possible
association of physical activity and gallbladder cancer, although
several studies have suggested a positive association between obesity and gallbladder cancer. In a meta-analysis comprised of 3,288
cases derived from eight cohort studies and three case-control studies, obesity was associated with a 66% increased risk of gallbladder cancer, and the increase in risk was larger for women than for
men.77 Further, two studies found that WHR was positively associated with gallbladder cancer risk among men and women with and
without a history of gallstones, suggesting that abdominal obesity
may be important in the etiology of this disease.78,79

NON-HODGKIN LYMPHOMA
KIDNEY/RENAL CELL CANCER
Physical activity has been studied in relation to renal cell carcinoma
in part because of the known deleterious effects of high BMI and hypertension on the risk of renal cell cancer; however, no association
has been firmly established. A review of physical activity and risk of
genitourinary cancers noted significant protective effects in 8 of 15
studies of physical activity in relation to renal cell carcinoma, with
an average 8% reduction in risk when comparing individuals with
the highest level of physical activity to those with the lowest level of
activity.69 Reductions in risk were greater for recreational than for
other forms of activity and for activity performed later in life.
Obesity, in addition to high blood pressure and diabetes, is
an established risk factor for kidney cancer.26 It is still uncertain
whether a gender difference exists, however. A meta-analysis has
suggested a similar impact of BMI on kidney cancer risk among
women and men, with an approximate 7% increase in risk per unit
increase in BMI.26 The effect of obesity may differ by histology; a
recent study reported an increased risk observed for clear cell and
chromophobe cancers, but not papillary renal cell cancer.70

Studies addressing physical inactivity and obesity as potential risk
factors for NHL have been mixed, in part because they have not
had a sufficient number of cases to assess risk by NHL subtype.
Generally, studies have shown no overall association between
physical activity and NHL risk.4 The results of four cohort studies,
the CTS,80 WHI,81 EPIC,82 and the American Cancer Society Prevention Study-II83 have been unconvincing, with WHI showing a
nonstatistically significant positive association, whereas the other
studies showed no association.
In 2008, the International Lymphoma Epidemiology Consortium (InterLymph) published a pooled analysis of 18 case-control
studies with more than 10,000 cases reporting no association
between BMI around the time of diagnosis and NHL risk overall, but an increased risk of diffuse NHL for severe obesity (BMI
≥40 kg/m2).84 The results from meta-analyses of cohort studies suggested a weak positive association overall and for diffuse NHL.85,86
An analysis of two cohort studies has suggested that body size in early
adulthood may be more predictive of NHL risk than that later in life
for all NHL and for the diffuse and follicular subtypes.87

PANCREATIC CANCER

PROSTATE CANCER

Pancreatic cancer is generally diagnosed at an advanced stage and
is associated with high mortality rates. A meta-analysis of 28 stud-

More than 20 studies have assessed the potential association between physical activity and prostate cancer.4,88,89 Regardless of the

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chapter 10 Obesity and Physical Activity

118

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Etiology of Cancer

different approaches used, the populations studied, or the sample
sizes of the studies, the majority of studies have suggested a modest
reduction in risk with an increased level of physical activity.4 In a
review of the literature, Friedenreich and Orenstein88 concluded
that prostate cancer risk is reduced 10% to 30% when comparing
the most active with the least active men and suggested that it may
be high levels of physical activity earlier in life that are most relevant
to this disease. An update to this review, based on 22 additional studies, indicates that the majority of recent research studies observed
protective effects.90 Leitzmann and Rohrmann91 added that the associations with reduced risk may be most apparent for fatal prostate
cancer. A current systematic review and meta-analysis, including
19 cohort and 24 case-control studies, agrees.92 A pooled 19% reduction in risk was observed for occupational physical activity, and a 5%
reduction was observed for recreational physical activity comparing
the most physically active men to the least active.92 An issue that
somewhat reduces our confidence in these estimates is that considerable heterogeneity between studies was observed. Further, it is
not yet clear whether these results reflect a true causal association
or whether they are due to confounding by prostate-specific antigen
testing, which may be more common among physically active men.
The early epidemiologic literature on the potential association between obesity and prostate cancer provided no consistent
evidence of any relationship.4 Recent studies have suggested
that obesity may have a dual effect on prostate cancer risk. One
meta-analysis reported that the risk of early-stage prostate cancer
decreased by 6%, whereas the risk of advanced prostate cancer
increased 9% per 5-kg/m2 increase in BMI.93 Another possibility
is that obesity may decrease the likelihood of diagnosis of less aggressive prostate cancer. Proposed mechanisms include the paradoxical effects of testosterone on low-grade versus more advanced
prostate cancer and alterations in insulin and circulating IGF-1.94

OVARIAN CANCER
The literature on ovarian cancer risk in relation to physical activity and obesity has been inconclusive. More than 18 studies
have assessed the impact of physical activity on ovarian cancer
risk. A meta-analysis of 12 studies found an approximate 20% decrease in ovarian cancer risk associated with physical activity when
the highest category of exercise was compared to the lowest.105
Four106–109 of five110 additional studies found no association; the
fifth study found a nonsignificant 10% to 20% reduction in ovarian
cancer risk for women who participated in at least 1 hour per week
of recreational aerobic activity.
The evidence for an association between obesity and increased
ovarian cancer risk is weak, with few studies showing a statistically significant result.4,111 A meta-analysis of 16 studies indicated
that adult obesity increases the risk for ovarian cancer; the overall
pooled effect estimate was a 30% increase in ovarian cancer risk associated with adult obesity with a possible dose-response effect, but
no variation in risk estimates across histologic subtypes.111 In contrast, the results from the Ovarian Cancer Association Consortium,
based on original data from 15 case-control studies, suggest that
obesity only increases the risk of the less common histologic subtypes of ovarian cancer; obesity does not increase risk of high-grade
invasive serous cancers, the most common subtype.112 A pooled
analysis of 12 cohort studies reported that BMI was not associated
with ovarian cancer risk in postmenopausal women, but was positively associated with risk in premenopausal women.113 Another
meta-analysis, using 47 studies, showed that the positive association between BMI and ovarian cancer was restricted to women
who had never used hormone therapy; among these women, risk
increased by 10% with every 5 kg/m2 increase in BMI.114

CONCLUSIONS

LUNG CANCER
Physical activity may reduce lung cancer risk by 30% to 40%,88 but
no definitive conclusion can be drawn because one cannot ignore
potential residual confounding or effect modification due to smoking as an explanation for any observed association. Recent studies have attempted to address this issue by estimating risk within
subgroups defined by smoking status. A recent review suggests an
inverse relationship between heavy lifetime physical activity and
lung cancer in former and current smokers that is consistent across
all histologies, but is not observed among never smokers.5 A small
case-control study of current and former smokers enrolled in the
Cologne Smoking Study came to a similar conclusion, observing a
lower risk of lung cancer among participants who were physically
active compared to those who were not.95 In the large NIH–AARP
Diet and Health Study, no associations were observed between
occupational or recreation physical activity and lung cancer risk
among those who never smoked.96
Due to sex differences in lung cancer pathology, risk factors,
and prognosis, current research has also begun to investigate the
association for men and women separately.97 The recent literature
consists of small case-control studies,98 which lack statistical power
to examine risks in subgroups defined by histology, smoking status,
or sex, and which may be affected by survival bias in that rapidly
fatal cases or those who are too ill to be interviewed are excluded
from the study population.
Several studies have suggested the existence of an inverse association between increasing BMI and lung cancer risk.99–102
Nevertheless, this inverse effect may have been due to residual confounding by smoking because the inverse association was restricted
to ever smokers. One meta-analysis showed an inverse association
between BMI and lung cancer in nonsmokers103; however, caution
should be exercised when interpreting the results due to concerns
about heterogeneity of risk estimates across studies, the quality of
the original studies, and confounding by smoking.104

Table 10.1 illustrates the strength of evidence regarding increased
physical activity as a protective factor and obesity as a risk factor

TA B L E 1 0 . 1
Summary of the Strength of the Observational
Epidemiologic Evidence for Physical Activity as a
Protective Factor and Obesity as a Risk Factor for
Cancer, By Type of Cancer
Physical
Activity

Overweight/
Obesity

Breast, postmenopausal

+++

+++

Breast, premenopausal

++

++ (protection)

Colon

+++

+++

Endometrium

+

+++

Esophagus, adenocarcinoma

?

+++

Kidney/renal cell

?

+++

Gallbladder

?

++

Pancreas

?

+++

Non-Hodgkin lymphoma

?

+

Prostate, aggressive

+

+

Lung

+

?

Ovary

?

?

+++, evidence is convincing; ++, evidence is probable; +,
evidence is possible; ?, evidence remains insufficient/inconclusive.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 10 Obesity and Physical Activity

S E L E C T E D
The full reference list can be accessed at lwwhealthlibrary.com/oncology.
4. Vainio H, Bianchini F, eds. IARC Handbooks of Cancer Prevention Volume 6:
Weight Control and Physical Activity. Lyon, France: IARC Press; 2000.
7. Gunter MJ, Leitzmann MF. Obesity and colorectal cancer: epidemiology,
mechanisms and candidate genes. J Nutr Biochem 2006;17(3):145–156.
8. Monninkhof EM, Elias SG, Vlems FA, et al. Physical activity and breast cancer: a systematic review. Epidemiol 2007;18(1):137–157.
9. World Cancer Research Fund/American Institute for Cancer Research. Food,
Nutrition, Physical Activity, and the Prevention of Cancer: A Global Perspective. Washington, D.C.: World Cancer Research Fund/American Institute for
Cancer Research; 2007.
26. Boeing H. Obesity and cancer—the update 2013. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab 2013;27(2):219–227.
31. Bernstein L. Epidemiology of endocrine-related risk factors for breast cancer.
J Mammary Gland Biol Neoplasia 2002;7(1):3–15.
40. Brown KA, Simpson ER. Obesity and breast cancer: progress to understanding the relationship. Cancer Res 2010;70(1):4–7.
41. Friedenreich CM, Neilson HK, Lynch BM. State of the epidemiological
evidence on physical activity and cancer prevention. Eur J Cancer 2010;
46(14):2593–2604.
43. Wolin KY, Yan Y, Colditz GA, et al. Physical activity and colon cancer prevention: a meta-analysis. Br J Cancer 2009;100(4):611–616.
44. Boyle T, Keegel T, Bull F, et al. Physical activity and risks of proximal and
distal colon cancers: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Natl Cancer
Inst 2012;104(20):1548–1561.
53. Calle EE, Kaaks R. Overweight, obesity and cancer: epidemiological evidence and proposed mechanisms. Nat Rev Cancer 2004;4(8):579–591.
55. Voskuil DW, Monninkhof EM, Elias SG, et al. Physical activity and endometrial cancer risk, a systematic review of current evidence. Cancer Epidemiol
Biomarkers Prev 2007;16(4):639–648.
56. Cust AE, Armstrong BK, Friedenreich CM, et al. Physical activity and endometrial cancer risk: a review of the current evidence, biologic mechanisms
and the quality of physical activity assessment methods. Cancer Causes
Control 2007;18(3):243–258.
61. Kaaks R, Lukanova A, Kurzer MS. Obesity, endogenous hormones, and endometrial cancer risk: a synthetic review. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev
2002;11(12):1531–1543.
66. Lepage C, Drouillard A, Jouve JL, et al. Epidemiology and risk factors for
oesophageal adenocarcinoma. Dig Liver Dis 2013;45(8):625–629.

the ages at which physical activity will provide the most benefit?
What types of activity should one do and at what intensity, frequency (times per week), and duration (hours per week)? Similarly, for BMI, is there some threshold below which the individual
will not have excess cancer risk? Does purposeful weight loss during the adult years lower the risk associated with being overweight
or obese? Finally, necessary research is ongoing to identify the biologic mechanisms that account for these effects and to determine
whether all persons are affected equally. For instance, it is possible
that genetically defined subgroups of the population respond to
physical activity or obesity differently. Understanding mechanisms
and population variation in these effects will illuminate appropriate prescriptions for lifestyle change.

R E F E R E N C E S
68. Hoyo C, Cook MB, Kamangar F, et al. Body mass index in relation to
oesophageal and oesophagogastric junction adenocarcinomas: a pooled
analysis from the International BEACON Consortium. Int J Epidemiol
2012;41(6):1706–1718.
69. Leitzmann MF. Physical activity and genitourinary cancer prevention.
Recent Results Cancer Res 2011;186:43–71.
71. O’Rorke MA, Cantwell MM, Cardwell CR, et al. Can physical activity
modulate pancreatic cancer risk? A systematic review and meta-analysis. Int
J Cancer 2010;126(12):2957–2968.
72. Aune D, Greenwood DC, Chan DS, et al. Body mass index, abdominal fatness and pancreatic cancer risk: a systematic review and non-linear
dose-response meta-analysis of prospective studies. Ann Oncol 2012;23(4):
843–852.
77. Larsson SC, Wolk A. Obesity and the risk of gallbladder cancer: a metaanalysis. Br J Cancer 2007;96(9):1457–1461.
84. Willett EV, Morton LM, Hartge P, et al. Non-Hodgkin lymphoma and
obesity: a pooled analysis from the InterLymph Consortium. Int J Cancer
2008;122(9):2062–2070.
85. Larsson SC, Wolk A. Body mass index and risk of non-Hodgkin’s and
Hodgkin’s lymphoma: a meta-analysis of prospective studies. Eur J Cancer
2011;47(16):2422–2430.
90. Young-McCaughan S. Potential for prostate cancer prevention through physical activity. World J Urol 2012;30(2):167–179.
92. Liu Y, Hu F, Li D, et al. Does physical activity reduce the risk of prostate cancer? A systematic review and meta-analysis. Eur Urol 2011;60(5):1029–1044.
93. Discacciati A, Orsini N, Wolk A. Body mass index and incidence of localized
and advanced prostate cancer—a dose-response meta-analysis of prospective
studies. Ann Oncol 2012;23(7):1665–1671.
97. Tardon A, Lee WJ, Delgado-Rodriguez M, et al. Leisure-time physical activity and lung cancer: a meta-analysis. Cancer Causes Control 2005;16(4):
389–397.
103. Yang Y, Dong J, Sun K, et al. Obesity and incidence of lung cancer: a metaanalysis. Int J Cancer 2013;132(5):1162–1169.
112. Olsen CM, Nagle CM, Whiteman DC, et al. Obesity and risk of ovarian cancer subtypes: evidence from the Ovarian Cancer Association Consortium.
Endocr Relat Cancer 2013;20(2):251–262.
114. Collaborative Group on Epidemiological Studies of Ovarian Cancer.
Ovarian cancer and body size: individual participant meta-analysis including
25,157 women with ovarian cancer from 47 epidemiological studies.
PLoS Med 2012;9(4):e1001200.

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

for cancer. The strength of evidence for each exposure is classified
as convincing (+++), probable (++), possible (+), or insufficient and inconclusive (?). Overall, for physical activity, convincing evidence exists for an association with postmenopausal breast
cancer and colon cancer; for obesity, the evidence is convincing
for breast, colon, endometrial, esophageal, and kidney/renal cell
cancer. Evidence for associations between these exposures and several other cancer sites is accumulating. Despite some convincing
evidence of the effects of physical activity and obesity on the risk
of certain cancers, it is difficult to make recommendations as to
appropriate changes in lifestyle that will reduce a person’s chances
of developing cancer. We have no physical activity prescriptions to
give at this time. Many questions remain to be answered: What are

119

Section 2 Epidemiology of Cancer

11

Epidemiologic Methods

Xiaomei Ma and Herbert Yu

INTRODUCTION

ANALYTICAL STUDIES

Epidemiology is the study of the distribution and determinants of
health-related states or events in specified populations and the application of this study to control health problems.1 Epidemiologic
principles and methods have long been applied to cancer research,
with the assumptions that cancer does not occur at random and the
nonrandomness of carcinogenesis can be elucidated through systematic research. An example of such applications is the lung cancer
study conducted by Doll and Hill in the early 1950s, which linked
tobacco smoking to an increased mortality of lung cancer in over
40,000 medical professionals in the United Kingdom.2 The observation from this study and many other studies, in conjunction with laboratory findings regarding the underlying biologic mechanisms for
the effect of tobacco smoking, helped establish the role of tobacco
smoking in the etiology of lung cancer. Epidemiologic methods are
also used in clinical settings, where trials are conducted to evaluate
the efficacy of new treatment protocols or preventive measures and
where observational studies of prognostic factors are done.
Epidemiologic studies can take different forms, but generally
they can be classified into two broad categories, observational studies and experimental studies (Fig. 11.1). In experimental studies,
an investigator allocates different study regimens to the subjects,
usually with randomization (experimental studies without randomization are sometimes referred to as “quasi-experiments”).3
Experimental studies can be individual based or community
based. An experimental study most closely resembles laboratory
experiments in that the investigator has control over the study condition. Experimental studies can be used to evaluate the efficacy
of a treatment protocol (e.g., low-dose compared with standarddose chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma)4 or preventive
measures (e.g., tamoxifen for women at an increased risk of breast
cancer).5 Although experimental studies are often considered the
“gold standard” because of well-controlled study situations, they
are only suitable for the evaluation of effects that are beneficial or
at least not harmful due to ethical concerns. Experimental studies
are discussed in detail in other chapters of this book. This section
will focus on observational studies.
Observational studies do not involve the artificial manipulation of study regimens. In an observational study, an investigator
stands by to observe what happens or happened to the subjects, in
terms of exposure and outcome. Observational studies can be further divided into descriptive and analytical studies (see Fig. 11.1).
Descriptive studies focus on the distribution of diseases with respect
to person, place, and time (i.e., who, where, and when), whereas
analytical studies focus on the determinants of diseases. Descriptive
studies are often used to generate hypotheses, whereas analytical
studies are often used to test hypotheses. However, the two types
of studies should not be considered mutually exclusive entities;
rather, they are the opposite ends of a continuum. Descriptive
studies are discussed in detail in other chapters of this book.

Ecologic Studies
As in experimental studies, the unit of analysis can be individuals or groups of people in observational studies. Studies that use
groups of people as the unit of analysis are called ecologic studies,
which are relatively easy to carry out when group level measures
are available. However, a relationship observed between variables
on a group level does not necessarily reflect the relationship that
exists at an individual level. For example, the fraction of energy
supply from animal products was found to be positively correlated
with breast cancer mortality in a recent ecologic study, which used
preexisting data on both dietary supply and breast cancer mortality
rates from 35 countries.6 Because the data were country based, no
reliable inference can be made at an individual level. Within each
country, it could be that the people who had a low fraction of energy supply from animal products were actually dying from breast
cancer. Results from ecologic studies are useful for inference at an
individual level only when the within-group variability of the exposure is low so that a group-level measure can reasonably reflect
exposure at an individual level. Alternatively, if the implications
for prevention or intervention are at a group level (e.g., taxation
of cigarettes to reduce smoking), results from ecologic studies are
very useful.

Cross-Sectional Studies
There are three main types of analytical studies in which the unit
of analysis is individuals: cross-sectional, cohort, and case-control
studies. In a cross-sectional study, the information on various factors is collected from the study population at a given point in time.
From a public health perspective, data collected in cross-sectional
studies can be of great value in assessing the general health status of a population and allocating resources. For example, the
National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey has provided
valuable national estimates of health and nutritional status of the
US civilian, noninstitutionalized population.7 Findings from crosssectional studies can also help generate hypotheses that may be
tested later in other types of studies. However, it should be noted
that cross-sectional studies have serious methodologic limitations
if the research purpose is etiologic inference. Because exposures
and disease status are evaluated simultaneously, it is usually not
possible to know the temporality of events unless the exposure
cannot change over time (e.g., blood type, skin color, race, country of birth). If one observes that more brain cancer patients are
depressed than people without brain cancer in a cross-sectional
study, the correlation does not necessarily mean that depression
causes brain cancer. Depression may simply have resulted from
the pathogenesis and diagnosis of brain cancer, or depression may

120
tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Epidemiologic study designs

Observational

Descriptive

Cross-sectional

Ecologic

Experimental

Analytical

Cohort

Case control

Individualbased trials

Community-based
interventions

Figure 11.1 Classification of epidemiologic study designs.

have caused brain cancer in some patients and resulted from brain
cancer in other patients. Without additional information on the
timing of events, no conclusions can be made. Another concern
in cross-sectional studies is the enrollment of prevalent cases, who
survived different lengths of time after the incidence of disease.
Factors that affect survival may also influence incidence. Prevalent
cases may not be representative of incident cases, which makes
etiologic inferences based on cross-sectional studies suspect at best.

Cohort Studies
In a cohort study, a study population free of a specific disease
(or any other health-related condition) is grouped based on their
exposure status and followed up for a certain period of time. Then
the exposed and unexposed subjects are compared with respect to
disease status at the end of the follow-up. The objective of a cohort
study is usually to evaluate whether the incidence of a disease is
associated with an exposure. The cohort design is fundamental
in observational epidemiology and is considered “ideal” in that,
if unbiased, cohort data reflect the real-life cause/effect sequence
of disease.8 Subjects in cohort studies may be a sample of the general population in a geographic area, a group of workers who are
exposed to certain occupational hazards in a specific industry, or
people who are considered at a high risk for a specific disease.
A cohort study is considered prospective or concurrent if the investigator starts following up the cohort from the present time into the
future, and retrospective or historical if the cohort is established
in the past based on existing records (e.g., an occupational cohort
based on employment records) and the follow-up ends before or at
the time of the study. Alternatively, a cohort study can be ambidirectional in that data collection goes both directions.9 Whether a
cohort study is prospective, retrospective, or ambidirectional, the
key feature is that all the subjects were free of the disease at the
beginning of the follow-up and the study tracks the subjects from
exposure to disease. Follow-up time, ranging from days to decades,
is an essential element in cohort studies.
In a cohort study, the incidence of disease in the exposed group
and the unexposed group is compared. The incidence measure
can be cumulative incidence or incidence density, depending
on the availability of data. When comparing the incidence in
the two groups, both relative differences and absolute differences
can be assessed. In cohort studies, the relative risk of developing

121

the disease is expressed as the ratio of the cumulative incidence
in the exposed group to that in the unexposed group, which is
also called cumulative incidence ratio or risk ratio. If we have data
on the exact person-time of follow-up for every subject, we can
also calculate an incidence density ratio (also called rate ratio) in
a similar way. The numeric value of the risk or rate ratio reflects
the magnitude of the association between an exposure and a disease. For example, a risk ratio of 2 would be interpreted as exposed
individuals have a doubled risk of developing a disease than unexposed individuals, whereas a risk ratio of 5 indicates that exposed
individuals have 5 times the risk of developing a disease compared
with unexposed individuals. To put in another way, a factor with
a risk ratio of 5 has a stronger effect than another factor with a risk
ratio of 2. In addition to risk ratio and rate ratio, another relative
measure called probability odds ratio can be calculated in cohort
studies. The probability odds of disease is the number of subjects
who developed a disease divided by the number of subjects who
did not develop the disease, and the probability odds ratio is the
probability odds in the exposed group divided by the probability
odds in the unexposed group. Many investigators prefer risk ratio
or rate ratio to probability odds ratio in cohort studies, because the
ability to directly measure the risk of developing a disease is one of
the most significant advantages in cohort studies. In practice, however, a probability odds ratio is often used as an approximation for
risk or rate ratio, especially when multivariate logistic regression
models are employed to adjust for the effect of other factors that
may influence the relationship between an exposure and a disease.
As for absolute differences, a commonly used measure is called
attributable risk in the exposed, which is the incidence in the exposed group minus the incidence in the unexposed group. Attributable risk reflects the disease incidence that could be attributed
to the exposure in exposed individuals and the reduction in incidence that we would expect if the exposure can be removed from
the exposed individuals, provided that there is a causal relationship
between the exposure and the disease. Another absolute measure
called population attributable risk extends this concept to the general population; it estimates the disease incidence that could be
attributed to an exposure in the general population. Because both
relative and absolute differences can be assessed in cohort studies,
a natural question to ask is what measures to choose. In general,
the relative differences are used more often if the main research
objective is etiologic inference, and they can be used for the
judgment of causality. Once causality is established, or at least assumed, measures of absolute differences are more important from
a public health perspective. This point can be illustrated using the
following hypothetical example. Assume the following: toxin X in
the environment triples the risk of bladder cancer and toxin Y doubles the risk of bladder cancer, the effects of X and Y are entirely
independent of each other, the prevalence of exposure to toxin Y
in the general population is 20 times higher than the prevalence
of exposure to toxin X, and there are only resources available to
reduce the exposure to one toxin. It would be more effective to use
the resources to reduce the exposure to toxin Y instead of toxin X.
This is because the population attributable risk due to Y is higher
than that due to X, although the risk ratio associated with toxin Y is
smaller than that associated with toxin X.
Cohort studies have many advantages. A cohort design is the
best way to study the natural history of a disease.9 There is usually
a clear temporal relationship between an exposure and a disease
because all the subjects are free of the disease at the beginning of
the follow-up (it can be a problem if a subject has a subclinical disease such as undetected prostate cancer). Furthermore, multiple
diseases can be studied with respect to the same exposure. On the
other hand, cohort studies, especially prospective cohort studies,
are costly in terms of both time and money. A cohort design requires the follow-up of a large number of study participants over a
sometimes extremely lengthy period of time and usually extensive
data collection through questionnaires, physical measurements,
and/or biologic specimens at regular intervals. Participants may be

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chapter 11 Epidemiologic Methods

122

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Epidemiology of Cancer

“lost” during the follow-up because they became tired of the study,
moved away from the study area, or died from some causes other
than the disease under study. If the subjects who were lost during
the follow-up are different from those who remained under observation with respect to exposure, disease, or other factors that may
influence the relationship between the exposure and the disease,
results from the study may be biased. To date, cohort studies have
been used to study the etiology of a wide spectrum of diseases,
including different types of cancer. If a cohort study is conducted
to evaluate the etiology of cancer, usually the study sample size
would need to be very large (such as the National Institutes of
Health-AARP Diet and Health Study, which included more than
half million subjects10) and the follow-up time would need to be
long, unless the cohort selected is a high-risk population.
For simplicity, we have discussed cohort studies in which the
outcome of interest is the incidence of a specific disease and there
are only two exposure groups. In practice, any health-related event
can be the outcome of interest, and multiple exposure groups can
be compared.

Case-Control Studies
Case-control design is an alternative to cohort design for the
evaluation of the relationship between an exposure and a disease
(or any other health condition). A case-control approach compares
the odds of past exposure between cases and noncases (controls)
and uses the exposure odds ratio as an estimate for relative risk.
A primary goal in a case-control study is to reach the same conclusions as what would have been obtained from a cohort study, if one
had been done.11 If appropriately designed and conducted, a casecontrol study can optimize speed and efficiency as the need for
follow-up is avoided.8 The starting point of a case-control study is a
source population from which the cases arise. Instead of obtaining
the denominators for the calculation of risks or rates in a cohort
study, a control group is sampled from the entire source population. After selecting control subjects, who ideally would have become cases had they developed the disease, an investigator collects
data on past exposures from both the cases and the controls and
then calculates an odds ratio, which is the odds of exposure in the
cases divided by the odds of exposure in the controls.
There are two main types of case-control studies: case-based
case-control studies and case-control studies within defined cohorts.8 Some variations of the case-control design also exist. For
instance, if the effect of an exposure is transient, sometimes a case
can be used as his/her own control (case cross-over design). In
case-based case-control studies, cases and controls are selected at a
given point in time from a hypothetical cohort (e.g., at the end of
follow-up). A cross-sectional ascertainment of cases will result in
a case group that mostly contains prevalent cases who may have
survived for different lengths of time after disease incidence. Cases
who died before an investigator began subject ascertainment
would not be eligible to be included in the study. As a result, the
cases finally included in the study may not be representative of all
the cases from the entire hypothetical cohort. Another disadvantage of enrolling prevalent cases is that cases that were diagnosed
a long time ago will likely have difficulties recalling exposures that
occurred before the disease incidence. In case-control studies, it
is preferable to ascertain incident cases as soon as they are diagnosed and to select controls as soon as cases are identified. Casecontrol studies that enroll only incident cases are sometimes called
prospective case-control studies because the investigators need to
wait for the incident cases to develop and get diagnosed. For cancer studies, the cases can be ascertained from population-based
cancer registries or hospitals. A major advantage of using a cancer
registry is the completeness of case ascertainment; however, the
reporting of cancer cases to registries is usually not instantaneous.
There could be a lag time of several months or even over a year,
and some cases could have died during the lag time. If the cancer

under study has a poor survival rate and/or clinical specimens need
to be obtained in a timely manner, it may be preferable to identify cases directly from hospitals using a rapid ascertainment protocol. As for the selection of controls, the key issue is that controls
should be representative of the source population from which the
cases arise and, theoretically, the controls would have been ascertained as cases had they developed the disease. The most common
types of controls include population-based controls (often selected
through random digit dialing in case-control studies of cancer etiology), hospital controls, and friend controls. The advantages and
disadvantages of different types of controls have been nicely summarized by Wacholder et al.12 Because no follow-up is involved in
case-based case-control studies, the incidence risk or rate cannot
be calculated directly for case and control groups. The odds ratio
will be a good estimate of relative risk if the disease is uncommon.
In addition to case-based case-control studies, there are also
case-control studies within defined cohorts (also known as hybrid
or ambidirectional designs), including case-cohort studies and
nested case-control studies. In case-cohort studies, cases are identified from a well-defined cohort after some follow-up time, and controls are selected from the baseline cohort. In nested case-control
studies, cases are also identified from a cohort, but controls are
selected from the individuals at risk at the time each case occurs
(i.e., incidence density sampling).8 In these types of designs, controls are a sample of the cohort and the controls selected can theoretically become cases at some point. The possibility of selection
bias in case-control studies within defined cohorts is lower than
that in case-based case-control studies because the cases and the
controls are selected from the same source population. Because
of an increased awareness of the methodological issues inherent
in the design of case-based case-control studies and the availability
of a growing number of large cohorts, case-control studies within
defined cohorts have become more common in recent years. The
advantage of case-control studies within cohorts over traditional
cohort studies is mainly the efficiency in additional data collection. For instance, a recent nested case-control study evaluated the
relationship between endogenous sex hormones and prostate cancer risk.13 Instead of measuring the serum hormones levels of the
entire cohort (over 12,000 subjects), investigators chose to measure 300 cases and 300 controls selected from the cohort. Doing
so not only significantly reduced the cost of measurements and the
time it took to address the research question, but also helped preserve valuable serum samples for possible analyses in the future. In
a case-cohort design, an odds ratio estimates risk ratio; in a nested
case-control design, an odds ratio estimates rate ratio. In both designs, the disease under study does not have to be rare for the odds
ratio to be a good estimate of the risk ratio or rate ratio.8,14
The biggest advantage of a case-control design is the speed
and efficiency of obtaining data. It is claimed that investigators
implement case-control studies more frequently than any other
analytical epidemiologic study.15 Because most types of cancer are
uncommon and take a long time to develop, to date, most epidemiologic studies of cancer have been case-control instead of cohort in design. A case-control study can be conducted to evaluate
the relationship between many different exposures and a specific
disease, but the study will have limited statistical power if the exposure is rare. In general, a case-control design tends to be more
susceptible to biases than a cohort design. Such biases include,
but are not limited to, selection bias when choosing and enrolling subjects (especially controls) and recall bias when obtaining
data from the subjects. The status of the subjects—that is, case or
control—may affect how they recall and report previous exposures,
some of which occurred years or even decades ago. It is important
for investigators to explicitly define the diagnostic and eligibility
criteria for cases, to select controls from the same population as
the cases independent of the exposures of interest, to blind data
collection staff to the case or control status of subjects and/or the
main hypotheses of the study, to ascertain exposure in a similar
manner from cases and controls, and to take into account other

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

factors that may influence the relationship between an exposure
and a disease.15

INTERPRETATION OF EPIDEMIOLOGIC
FINDINGS
We have discussed measures of effects in various study designs.
However, a risk ratio of 3 from a cohort study or an odds ratio of 2.5
from a case-control study does not necessarily mean that there is
an association between an exposure and a disease. Several alternative explanations need to be assessed, including chance (random
error), bias (systematic error), and confounding. Potential interaction also needs be evaluated.
Statistical methods are required to evaluate the role of chance.
A usual way is to calculate the upper and lower limits of a 95% confidence interval around a point estimate for relative risk (risk ratio,
rate ratio, or odds ratio). If the confidence interval does not include
one, one would say that the observed association is statistically significant; if the confidence interval includes one, one would say
that the observed relationship is not statistically significant. The
width of a confidence interval is directly related to the number of
participants in a study, which is called sample size. A larger sample
size leads to less variability in the data, a tighter confidence interval, and a higher possibility in finding a statistically significant
association if one truly exists. A 95% confidence interval means
that if the data collection and analysis could be replicated many
times, the confidence interval should include the correct value of
the measure 95% of the time.16 It is better to consider a confidence
interval to be a general guide to the amount of random error in the
data but not necessarily a literal measure of statistical variability.16
Bias can be defined as any systematic error in an epidemiologic study that results in an incorrect estimate of the association
between exposure and disease, and it can occur in every type of
epidemiologic study design. There are two main types of bias: selection bias and information bias. Selection bias is present when
individuals included in a study are systematically different from
the target population. For example, a selection bias would occur
if a study aimed to generate a sample representing all women in
the United States, but of the women contacted, more with a family
history of breast cancer agreed to participate. This sample would
be at a higher risk for breast cancer than the target population.
Refusal to participate poses a constant challenge in epidemiologic
studies. As individuals have become more concerned about privacy issues and as studies have become more demanding of time,
biologic specimens, and other impositions, participation rates have
dropped substantially in recent years. If nonparticipants are different from the participants with respect to study-related characteristics, the validity of the study is threatened. Information bias occurs
when the data collected from the study subjects are erroneous. Information bias is also known as misclassification if the variable is
measured on a categorical scale and the error causes a subject to be
placed in a wrong category. Misclassification can happen to both
exposure and disease. For example, in a case-control study of previous reproductive history and ovarian cancer, a woman who had
an extremely early pregnancy loss might not even realize that she
was ever pregnant and would mistakenly report no pregnancy, and
another woman who has only subclinical presentations of ovarian
cancer might be mistakenly selected as a control. Misclassification
can be differential or nondifferential. An exposure misclassification is considered differential if it is related to disease status and
nondifferential if not related to disease status. Similarly, a disease
misclassification is considered differential if it is related to exposure status and nondifferential if not related to exposure status. If a
binary exposure variable and a binary disease variable are analyzed,
a nondifferential misclassification will result in an underestimate
of the true association. Differential misclassification can either exaggerate or underestimate a true effect. Usually not much can be
done to control or correct bias at the data analysis stage; therefore,

123

it is important to establish research protocols that are not prone to
bias. The evaluation of potential bias is critical to the interpretation of study results. An invalid estimate is worse than no estimate.
Confounding refers to a situation in which the association between an exposure and a disease (or any health-related condition)
is influenced by a third variable. This third variable is considered
a confounding variable or confounder. A confounder must fulfill
three criteria: (1) be associated with the exposure, (2) be associated
with the disease independent of the exposure, and (3) not be an
intermediate step between the exposure and the disease (i.e., not
on the causal pathway). Unlike bias, which is primarily introduced
by the investigator or study participants, confounding is a function
of the complex interrelationship between various exposures and disease.17 In a hypothetical case-control study of the effect of alcohol
drinking on lung cancer, we may observe an odds ratio of 2.5 (usually called a “crude” odds ratio in the sense that no other variables
were taken into account), which indicates that alcohol drinking
increases the risk of lung cancer by 1.5-fold. However, if we classify all study subjects into two strata based on a history of cigarette
smoking and then calculate the odds ratio in the two strata (smokers and nonsmokers) separately, we may have two stratum-specific
odds ratios both equal to one, indicating that alcohol drinking is
not associated with lung cancer risk. In this example, the crude
odds ratio calculated to estimate the association between alcohol
drinking and lung cancer without considering smoking is simply
misleading. Being associated with both the exposure (i.e., alcohol
drinking) and the disease (i.e., lung cancer), smoking acted as a
confounder in this example. A stratified analysis is needed to evaluate the potential confounding effect of a third variable, whether it
is done with pencil and paper or statistical modeling. Usually data
are stratified based on the level of a third variable. If the stratumspecific effect measures are similar to each other but different from
the crude effect measure, confounding is said to be present. In this
section, we have illustrated basic epidemiologic principles using an
overly simplified scenario and only considered a single exposure.
In practice, most if not all diseases, cancer included, have a multifactorial etiology. Consequently, it is usually necessary to assess the
potential confounding effect of a group of variables simultaneously
using multivariate statistical models. The effect measure derived
from a multivariate model will then be called an “adjusted” one
in the sense that the effect of other factors was also adjusted for.
Without controlling for the potential effect of other variables, an
investigator cannot really judge whether an observed association
between a given exposure and a specific disease is spurious.
If the effect of an exposure on the risk of a disease is not homogeneous in strata formed by a third variable, the third variable is
considered an effect modifier, and the situation is called interaction or effect modification. Put in other words, interaction exists
when the stratum-specific effect measures are different from each
other. In the lung cancer example given previously, if the odds
ratio for alcohol drinking is 1 in smokers but 3 in nonsmokers,
then there is interaction and smoking is an effect modifier. The
evaluation of interaction is essentially a stratified analysis, which
is similar to the evaluation of confounding. Confounding and interaction can be both present in a given study. However, when
interaction occurs, the stratum-specific effect measures should be
reported. It is no longer appropriate to report a summary measure
in the presence of interaction. Unlike confounding, which is a nuisance that an investigator hopes to remove, interaction is a more
detailed description of the true relationship between an exposure
and a disease.

CANCER OUTCOMES RESEARCH
The discussion of epidemiologic methods in this section focuses
primarily on etiological research, which aims at identifying the
risk factors of cancer. However, similar principles and methods are
applicable to cancer outcomes research, which aims at studying

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chapter 11 Epidemiologic Methods

124

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Epidemiology of Cancer

a variety of factors related to the early identification, treatment,
prognosis, health related quality of life, and cost of care. Cancer
outcomes research can be experimental or observational in nature.
For example, randomized clinical trials have been conducted to
assess the impact of screening on prostate cancer mortality18 and
to compare the effect of radical prostatectomy versus observation
in patients with localized prostate cancer.19 Observational studies
of cancer outcomes, especially those that build upon preexisting
resources,20,21 can be carried out in a large group of patients with
relatively little cost to capture the patterns and cost of care and to
address many other research questions that have important clinical
implications. Although the findings of such observation studies are
subject to bias and confounding inherent in an observational design, these studies are complementary to experimental studies and
have their unique value. Given an increasing interest in improving
the effectiveness and value of cancer care, more cancer outcomes
research is to be expected in the future.

MOLECULAR EPIDEMIOLOGY
Molecular epidemiology involves multidisciplinary and transdisciplinary research that entails not only traditional epidemiology
and biostatistics, but also genetics, molecular biology, biochemistry, cellular biology, analytical chemistry, toxicology, pharmacology, and laboratory medicine. Unlike traditional epidemiology
research of cancer, which focuses on exposures or risk factors ascertained through questionnaire-based interviews or surveys, molecular epidemiology studies expand the assessment of exposure
to a much broader scope that includes an analysis of biomarkers
underlying internal exposure of exogenous and endogenous carcinogenic agents or risk factors, molecular alterations in response
to exposure, and genetic susceptibility to cancer. The biomarkers often measured in molecular epidemiology research include
DNA, RNA, proteins, chromosomes, compound molecules (e.g.,
DNA and protein adducts), and various metabolites as well as
other endogenous and exogenous substances (e.g., steroids, nutrients, chemical or biologic toxins, and phytochemicals). Molecular
markers can reflect different aspects of the tumorigenic process,
which include biomarkers of internal exposure, biomarkers of molecular or cellular changes in response to exposure, and biomarkers of precursor lesions or early diseases.22,23 Depending on the
source of molecules and location of diseases, surrogates are often
used in epidemiologic studies. When using a surrogate marker or
tissue, the relevance of a proxy to its underlying target needs to be
established or justified.23 This justification is especially important
when conducting population-based epidemiologic studies that
focus on organ-specific cancers, because assessing biomarkers in
target tissue is difficult for controls; molecular markers from blood
samples are often used as substitutes. If a biomarker in the blood
does not travel to or act on the tissue or organ of interest, an association between the circulating marker and the cancer may not be
relevant. Thus, establishing a close link between a surrogate and
its target is crucial in molecular epidemiology research.
Gene-environment interaction plays an essential role in cancer development.24 Common genetic variations are considered an
important determinant of host susceptibility and are a major focus
of molecular epidemiology research. Depending on the biologic
mechanism involved, genetic variations can influence every aspect
of the carcinogenic process, ranging from external and internal
exposure to carcinogens or risk factors to molecular and cellular
damage, alteration, and response.22,23 Currently, single nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs) are the most studied genetic variations. It
is believed that even if SNPs confer a small risk, they may still
be important at the population level because these variations are
common in the general population. It is also important that the
impacts of SNPs on cancer are considered under the context of
gene–gene and gene–environment interactions. As genotyping
technology has advanced substantially with respect to its analytic

quality, capacity, and cost, research of genetic polymorphisms has
evolved rapidly from investigations of a single SNP to studies of
haplotypes and tag SNPs, and from a pathway-based candidate
gene approach to genome-wide association studies (GWAS).25
A GWAS analyzes hundreds of thousands of SNPs simultaneously
for hundreds or even thousands of study subjects. When these data
are further combined with questionnaire information such as environmental exposures, lifestyle factors, dietary habits, and medical history, enormous information is generated, which requires a
huge sample size to allow for a reliable and complete assessment
of these variables individually and jointly. A single epidemiologic
study can no longer provide sufficient power for this type of investigation. Multicenter investigations or study consortia that pool
study information and specimens together are developed to address the sample size issue.26 False-positive findings resulting from
multiple comparisons constitute a major challenge in epidemiologic studies of genetic associations with cancer.27 A meta-analysis
or pooled analysis can be used to address this problem if sufficient
studies are already published and available for evaluation. To address this issue at the time of study design, one may adopt a two- or
multiphase study design in which study subjects are divided into
two or multiple groups for genotyping and data analysis. Selected
or genomewide SNPs are first screened in one group of the study
subjects (discovery phase), and then the significant findings determined by stringent statistical criteria (usually p values less than
1 × 10−5 or 1 × 10−7) are reanalyzed in one or several other
groups of subjects for verification (validation phase). This study design also lowers the cost of genotyping. False-positive findings can
also be addressed with various statistical methods, such as bootstrap, permutation test, estimate of false positive report probability, prediction of false discovery rate, and the use of a much more
stringent p value to accommodate multiple comparisons. For epidemiologic studies that are not population based or not conducted
strictly following epidemiology principles, population stratification
is a potential source of bias that may distort genetic associations.28
A large number of GWAS have been completed in search for
SNPs that influence host susceptibility to cancer. Considering that
more than 5 million SNPs are present in the human genome, the
numbers of SNPs that are found to be associated with cancer risk
after rigorous validation are much fewer than what one would have
anticipated. In addition, the risk associations detected are quite
weak, with most of the odds ratios ranging from 1.1 to 1.5, and the
functional relevance or biologic implications are unclear for most
of the SNPs. Furthermore, not many SNPs associated with cancer
risk are located in protein-coding regions, and even fewer are in
the loci of candidate genes suspected to be involved in tumorigenesis, such as oncogenes, tumor suppressor genes, DNA repair
genes, and xenobiotic metabolizing or detoxification genes. Genes
where SNPs are found to be linked to cancer by GWAS include
FGFR2, MAP3K1, MRPS30, LSP1, TNRC9, TOX3, STXBP1, and
RAD51L1 for breast cancer29–31; JAZF1, HNF1B, MSMB, CTBP2,
and KLK2/KLK3 for prostate cancer29,32; SMAD7, CRAC1, EIF3H,
BMP4, CDH1, and RHPN2 for colorectal cancer29,33; CHRNA3
and CHRNA5 for lung cancer34,35; ABO for pancreatic cancer36;
TACC3 and PSCA for bladder cancer37,38; and KRT5 for basal cell
carcinoma.39 Among these genes identified by GWAS, two findings are considered especially interesting. One is the association of
lung cancer with CHRNA3 and CHRNA5, which encode neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits. Different genotypes
of these receptor subunits appear to influence individual’s addiction to tobacco, which further leads to different smoking exposure
and lung cancer risk.40,41 Another is the link of the ABO gene to
pancreatic cancer. The association between pancreatic cancer risk
and ABO blood type was observed 50 years ago. The GWAS finding not only confirms the relationship, but also provides new clues
for understanding the underlying biologic mechanism.
Besides intragenic SNPs, GWAS also found many intergenic
SNPs in association to cancer risk, which include those in the regions of 8q24, 5p15, 1p11, 1p36, 1q42, 2p15, 2q35, 3p12, 3p24,

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

3q28, 6p21, 6q25, 7q21, 7q32, 9p21, 9p22, 9p24, 9q22, 10p14,
11q13, 11q23, 14q13, 18q23, and 20p12.29–31,33,39,42–48 Of these
loci, SNPs in 8q24 are associated with several cancer sites, including prostate, breast, colon, and bladder.29,31–33,47–49 Further analysis of 8q24 indicates that there are nine SNPs in five regions and
each region is independently related to different types of cancer,
with SNPs in regions 1, 4, and 5 associated exclusively with prostate cancer, a SNP in region 2 related to breast cancer, and SNPs
in region 3 linked to prostate, colon, and ovarian cancers.50 No
known genes are located within the region of 8q24, but an oncogene c-MYC resides about 330 kb downstream of the region.51
An initial investigation found no evidence of the SNPs’ influence
on c-MYC expression,47 but a later study suggests that the SNPs
in 8q24 may be distal enhancers of c-MYC, interacting with its
promoter through a chromatin loop.52 Another genomic region
that is associated with the risk of multiple cancer sites is 5p15, a
region involving telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) cleft lip
and palate transmembrane protein 1–like protein (CLPTM1L).
Five types of cancer are found to be linked to this region, including basal cell carcinoma, lung, bladder, prostate, and cervical cancers.53 TERT extends the length of telomere and is associated with
cell proliferation and abnormal telomere maintenance.54 The risk
alleles of TERT are associated with shorter telomere length among
the elderly and with higher DNA adduct in the lungs.53,55
GWAS has demonstrated its value in identifying disease-related
SNPs in unknown regions of the genome, which provides new
clues for investigators to interrogate and understand different regions of the human genome, especially in the gene-desert areas.
Despite the strength, the low yield of significant findings from the
GWAS has raised concerns in several areas, including the SNP
coverage in the genome (rare SNPs and SNP representativeness
in unknown regions), associations with low statistical significance
(p value between 0.01 and 1 × 10−5, the GWAS cutoff), other
forms of genetic variations (copy number variation and other structural variations), cancer subtypes, and genetic interplay with environmental factors (gene–environment interaction).56,57 To address
these issues, investigators propose to perform fine-mapping and resequencing to examine genetic regions more specifically and meticulously. Epidemiologists suggest that detailed environmental
exposure and lifestyle factors should be included in the next wave
of GWAS. Furthermore, to make the study more reliable and compelling, DNA specimens, instead of convenient samples, should
come from well-designed and well-executed epidemiologic studies
that pay close attention to the selection of study subjects and the
measurement of environmental and lifestyle factors to eliminate or
minimize selection bias and measurement errors.
As described earlier, analytical epidemiology has two major
study designs: the case-control study and the cohort study. It is
important that investigators choose an appropriate study design to
investigate molecular markers in epidemiologic studies. Two types
of molecular markers, genotypic and phenotypic markers, can be
considered. Genotypic markers refer to nucleotide sequences of
genomic DNA, and all other molecules are considered phenotypic
markers, including most of the chemical modifications on DNA,
such as cytosine methylation. The distinction between the two is
a marker’s status in relation to an outcome variable, usually a disease. Genotypic markers generally do not change over time and
are not affected by the development of a disease, whereas phenotypic markers are likely to change over time or be influenced by
the presence of a disease, either itself or the treatment associated
with it. If measurements of a phenotypic marker are made from the
specimens that are collected after or at the time of cancer diagnosis, investigators will have difficulties determining the status of the
phenotypic marker before the cancer was diagnosed. A disease condition, however, does not affect genotypic markers such as SNPs;
therefore, a temporal relationship can be easily established even
if the samples are collected after the disease is diagnosed. Based
on this distinction, one can evaluate genotypic markers either in
case-control or cohort studies, but a case-control study would be

125

the design of choice because of efficiency and cost-effectiveness.
A prospective cohort study design is ideal for phenotypic markers. Investigators, however, may use other study designs if they can
demonstrate that the disease status does not influence the phenotypic markers of interest. To reduce study cost, investigators usually
use nested case-control or case-cohort designs to avoid analyzing
specimens from the entire cohort. The main purpose in choosing
a cohort study design for a molecular epidemiology investigation is
to ensure that biospecimens are collected before the development
of a disease so that a temporal relationship between a marker and
disease development can be established.
The differences between molecular epidemiology and genetic
epidemiology are the scope of the molecular analysis and the emphasis on heredity. Sometimes molecular and genetic epidemiology both investigate genetic factors in association with cancer
risk, but each has its own emphasis. The former assesses genetic
involvement, but not necessarily inheritance, whereas the latter focuses mainly on heredity. Because of the difference in focus, study
populations are different between the two types of investigation.
Molecular epidemiology studies unrelated individuals, whereas
genetic epidemiology investigates family members in the format
of pedigrees, parent–child trios, or sibling pairs. Given the different research focus between genetic and molecular epidemiology,
these investigations evaluate different genetic markers. Genetic
epidemiology research is designed to identify genetic markers with
high penetrance (strong association with an underlying disease)
but low prevalence in the general populations, whereas a molecular epidemiology investigation targets low penetrance markers that
are commonly present in the general population. Given the difference in study design, the analysis of genetic marker’s link to cancer
is also different between the studies. Relative risks or odds ratios
are calculated in molecular epidemiology studies because study
participants are unrelated individuals, whereas linkage analysis
is used in genetic epidemiology because individuals in the study
are genetically related family members. Recently, both genetic
and molecular epidemiology study designs have been considered
in GWAS to improve study validity and to minimize false positive findings. Another difference between genetic and molecular
epidemiology research is that molecular epidemiology also studies
nongenetic molecules. Thus, the scope of molecular analysis is
much broader in molecular epidemiology research than in genetic
epidemiology studies.
A laboratory analysis of molecular markers is another integral
part of molecular epidemiology research, which has unique features that are different from basic science research. Collecting
biologic specimens is difficult and expensive in population-based
epidemiologic studies. It not only increases the study cost, but also
imposes constraints to multiple areas of epidemiology research.
Specimen collection may adversely influence the response rate
of study participants, potentially compromising study validity. For
organ-specific cancer research, investigating molecular markers
in target tissue is difficult. Blood is the most common and versatile specimen used in molecular epidemiology research; other
specimens used include urine, stool, nail, hair, sputum, buccal
cells, and saliva. Tissue samples, either fresh frozen or chemically
fixed, are also used, but the availability of these samples is highly
limited to patients or selected subgroups of a general study population. Comparability and generalizability are always problems in
epidemiologic studies involving tissue specimens, except for those
investigations that focus on cancer prognosis or treatment in which
only cancer patients are involved. Attempts have been made to
use special body fluids for epidemiologic research, such as nipple
aspirate and breast or pulmonary lavage, but the difficulty in specimen collection and preparation makes these samples impractical
in large population-based studies.
Given the research value of biologic specimens and the difficulty in collecting them for population-based studies, technical
issues related to specimen collection, processing, and storage become especially important in molecular epidemiology research.

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chapter 11 Epidemiologic Methods

126

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Epidemiology of Cancer

These include time and conditions for specimen transportation
and processing, a sample aliquot and labeling system, a sample
special treatment for storage and analysis, a sample storage and
tracking system, as well as backup plans and equipment for unexpected adverse events during long-term storage (e.g., power failure,
earthquake, flooding). Laboratory methods used to analyze biomarkers are also important in molecular epidemiology. Because
large numbers of specimens are involved, laboratory methods are
required to be robust, reproducible, high throughput, low cost,
and easy to use. These requirements are often met in the analysis
of nucleotide sequences that serve as genotypic markers. However,
for phenotypic markers, many methods do not readily meet these
requirements. Moreover, many phenotypic markers, such as proteins, require both qualitative and quantitative assessments. An
ideal laboratory method should be quantitative (able to measure
a wide range of values), sensitive (able to detect a small amount of
analyte), specific (able to detect only the molecule of interest, no
other molecules), reproducible (high precision and low variation),
and versatile (easy to use). In addition, investigators need to implement appropriate quality assurance procedures during sample processing and testing as well as include appropriate quality control
samples in specimen analysis.
Host–environment interaction is believed to play a key role in
the etiology of most types of cancer. Genetic factors, including mutations and polymorphisms, are initially considered important host
factors, but recent developments in cancer research has indicated
that epigenetic factors may also play a critical role in cancer as a
host factor involved in host–environment interaction. Epigenetic
factors, which regulate the function of human genome without altering the physical sequences of nucleotides, include pretranscription regulation through nucleotide modification (e.g., cytosine
methylation at CpG sites), chromosome modification (e.g., histone acetylation), and posttranscription regulation by noncoding

S E L E C T E D
The full reference list can be accessed at lwwhealthlibrary.com/oncology.
1. Last J. A Dictionary of Epidemiology. 3rd ed. New York: Oxford University
Press; 1995.
2. Doll R, Hill AB. Lung cancer and other causes of death in relation to
smoking: a second report on the mortality of British doctors. Br Med J
1956;12:1071–1081.
3. Kleinbaum D, Kupper L, Morgenstern H. Epidemiologic Research. New
York: Van Nostrand Reinhold; 1982.
4. Kaplan LD, Straus DJ, Testa MA, et al. Low-dose compared with standarddose m-BACOD chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma associated with human immunodeficiency virus infection. National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases AIDS Clinical Trials Group. N Engl J Med
1997;336:1641–1648.
5. Dunn BK, Kramer BS, Ford LG. Phase III, large-scale chemoprevention trials. Approach to chemoprevention clinical trials and phase III clinical trial of
tamoxifen as a chemopreventive for breast cancer—the US National Cancer
Institute experience. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am 1998;12:1019–1036, vii.
6. Grant WB. An ecologic study of dietary and solar ultraviolet-B links to breast
carcinoma mortality rates. Cancer 2002;94:272–281.
7. National Center for Health Statistics. Third National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey, 1988-1994, Plan and Operations Procedures Manuals
(CD-ROM). Hyattsville, MD: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; 1996.
8. Szklo M, Nieto F. Epidemiology: Beyond the Basics. Gaithersburg, MD:
Aspen Publishers; 2000.
9. Grimes DA, Schulz KF. Cohort studies: marching towards outcomes. Lancet
2002;359:341–345.
10. Schatzkin A, Subar AF, Thompson FE, et al. Design and serendipity in establishing a large cohort with wide dietary intake distributions: the National
Institutes of Health-American Association of Retired Persons Diet and Health
Study. Am J Epidemiol 2001;154:1119–1125.
11. Mantel N, Haenszel W. Statistical aspects of the analysis of data from retrospective studies of disease. J Natl Cancer Inst 1959;22:719–748.
12. Wacholder S, Silverman DT, McLaughlin JK, et al. Selection of controls
in case-control studies. II. Types of controls. Am J Epidemiol 1992;135:
1029–1041.

small RNA (e.g., microRNAs). These epigenetic factors have
two unique features that have captured the attention of cancer
researchers, especially cancer epidemiologists who are interested
in the gene–environment interaction. It is known that epigenetic
factors are heritable, but these inherited features are readily modifiable by environmental and lifestyle factors. Monozygotic twins
have an identical genome as well as epigenome at birth, but the
latter undergoes substantial changes over time, resulting in distinct
epigenetic profiles that depend heavily on their environmental exposures.58 Animal studies also indicated that the maternal intake
of dietary nutrients involving one-carbon metabolism could influence offsprings’ growth phenotypes, which are regulated by DNA
methylation.59 As evidence mounts on epigenetic involvement in
cancer, molecular epidemiologists will start to look for clues in
human populations that can link epigenetic factors to both lifestyle
factors and cancer risk. Given that epigenetic regulation is tissue
specific and time dependent, investigators face challenges in accurately assessing these phenotypic markers in etiologic studies.
However, progress in the analysis of circulating methylation markers and microRNAs may provide an alternative to study epigenetic
regulation in human cancer. Furthermore, methods for a genomewide analysis of DNA methylation have been developed and applied in epidemiologic studies, which can substantially accelerate
the search for cancer-related DNA methylation. Together with the
high-throughput, high-dimensional analysis of DNA methylation,
two other evolving fields that will have significant impacts on molecular epidemiology of cancer research are metagenomics and
metabolomics. The former focuses on environmental genomics of
the microbiome that resides in our body and influences one’s biologic functions and health status. The latter refers to the analysis of
hundreds or thousands of metabolites in a biologic specimen, including tissue, blood, urine, body fluids, and fecal samples. These
new analyses will add tremendous value to epidemiologic studies.

R E F E R E N C E S
13. Chen C, Weiss NS, Stanczyk FZ, et al. Endogenous sex hormones and
prostate cancer risk: a case-control study nested within the Carotene
and Retinol Efficacy Trial. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 2003;12:
1410–1416.
14. Pearce N. What does the odds ratio estimate in a case-control study? Int J
Epidemiol 1993;22:1189–1192.
15. Schulz KF, Grimes DA. Case-control studies: research in reverse. Lancet
2002;359:431–434.
16. Rothman K. Epidemiology: An Introduction. New York: Oxford University
Press; 2002.
17. Hennekens C, Buring J. Epidemiology in Medicine. Boston: Little, Brown
and Company; 1987.
18. Andriole GL, Crawford ED, Grubb RL 3rd, et al. Mortality results from
a randomized prostate-cancer screening trial. N Engl J Med 2009;360:
1310–1319.
19. Wilt TJ, Brawer MK, Jones KM, et al. Radical prostatectomy versus observation for localized prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2012;367:203–213.
20. Yu JB, Soulos PR, Herrin J, et al. Proton versus intensity-modulated radiotherapy for prostate cancer: patterns of care and early toxicity. J Natl Cancer
Inst 2013;105:25–32.
21. Ma X, Wang R, Long JB, et al. The cost implications of prostate cancer
screening in the Medicare population. Cancer 2014;120(1):96–102.
22. Rundle A, Schwartz S. Issues in the epidemiological analysis and interpretation of intermediate biomarkers. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 2003;12:
491–496.
23. Shields PG. Tobacco smoking, harm reduction, and biomarkers. J Natl
Cancer Inst 2002;94:1435–1444.
24. Hunter DJ. Gene-environment interactions in human diseases. Nat Rev
Genet 2005;6:287–298.
25. Hirschhorn JN, Daly MJ. Genome-wide association studies for common diseases and complex traits. Nat Rev Genet 2005;6:95–108.
26. Breast Cancer Association Consortum. Commonly studied single-nucleotide
polymorphisms and breast cancer: results from the Breast Cancer Association
Consortium. J Natl Cancer Inst 2006;98:1382–1396.
27. Wacholder S, Chanock S, Garcia-Closas M, et al. Assessing the probability
that a positive report is false: an approach for molecular epidemiology studies. J Natl Cancer Inst 2004;96:434–442.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 11 Epidemiologic Methods

35. Amos CI, Wu X, Broderick P, et al. Genome-wide association scan of tag
SNPs identifies a susceptibility locus for lung cancer at 15q25.1. Nat Genet
2008;40:616–622.
36. Amundadottir L, Kraft P, Stolzenberg-Solomon RZ, et al. Genome-wide
association study identifies variants in the ABO locus associated with susceptibility to pancreatic cancer. Nat Genet 2009;41:986–990.
37. Kiemeney LA, Sulem P, Besenbacher S, et al. A sequence variant at 4p16.3
confers susceptibility to urinary bladder cancer. Nat Genet 2010;42(5):
415–419.
38. Wu X, Ye Y, Kiemeney LA, et al. Genetic variation in the prostate stem cell
antigen gene PSCA confers susceptibility to urinary bladder cancer. Nat
Genet 2009;41:991–995.
39. Stacey SN, Sulem P, Masson G, et al. New common variants affecting susceptibility to basal cell carcinoma. Nat Genet 2009;41:909–914.
40. Thorgeirsson TE, Geller F, Sulem P, et al. A variant associated with nicotine
dependence, lung cancer and peripheral arterial disease. Nature 2008;452:
638–642.

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

28. Clayton DG, Walker NM, Smyth DJ, et al. Population structure, differential bias and genomic control in a large-scale, case-control association study.
Nat Genet 2005;37:1243–1246.
29. Easton DF, Eeles RA. Genome-wide association studies in cancer. Hum
Mol Genet 2008;17:R109–115.
30. Ahmed S, Thomas G, Ghoussaini M, et al. Newly discovered breast cancer
susceptibility loci on 3p24 and 17q23.2. Nat Genet 2009;41:585–590.
31. Thomas G, Jacobs KB, Kraft P, et al. A multistage genome-wide association
study in breast cancer identifies two new risk alleles at 1p11.2 and 14q24.1
(RAD51L1). Nat Genet 2009;41:579–584.
32. Thomas G, Jacobs KB, Yeager M, et al. Multiple loci identified in a genomewide association study of prostate cancer. Nat Genet 2008;40:310–315.
33. Le Marchand L. Genome-wide association studies and colorectal cancer.
Surg Oncol Clin N Am 2009;18:663–668.
34. Hung RJ, McKay JD, Gaborieau V, et al. A susceptibility locus for lung
cancer maps to nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit genes on 15q25.
Nature 2008;452:633–637.

127

12

Trends in United States
Cancer Mortality

Tim E. Byers

INTRODUCTION
Cancer incidence registries now cover nearly all of the US population. State-based vital records systems and aggregate national systems
regularly report trends in both cancer incidence and mortality, and
national surveys routinely monitor cancer-related risk factors in the
population. These surveillance systems have documented substantial changes in both risk factors for cancer and in cancer incidence
and mortality rates in the United States over the past 3 decades. In
1996, the American Cancer Society (ACS) set an ambitious challenge for the United States: to reduce cancer mortality rates from
their apparent peak in 1990 by 50% in the 25-year period ending in
2015.1 In 1998, the ACS then challenged the United States to also
reduce cancer incidence rates from their peak in 1992 by 25% by
the year 2015.2 In this chapter, we will examine trends in cancer risk
factors as well as trends in cancer incidence and mortality rates in
the United States over the 25-year period between 1990 and 2015.

CANCER SURVEILLANCE SYSTEMS
Collecting cancer incidence rates is largely a state-based activity in
the United States, because cancer is a reportable disease in all states.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) organizes
all state-based cancer registries within the National Program of
Cancer Registries, which now reports collective data on cancer incidence from over 40 different state-based registries, providing data
that meets strict quality standards.3 The National Cancer Institute
has supported high-quality cancer incidence and outcomes registration in selected states and cities since 1973 within the Surveillance,
Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program.4 The most
precise measures of long-term trends in cancer incidence come
from SEER-9, a set of nine SEER registries that together include
about 10% of the US population. The populations included in the
SEER-9 registries document the most detailed history of cancer
trends beginning in the 1970s based on highly standardized cancer
case ascertainment, staging, treatment, and outcomes. Deaths from
cancer are well ascertained in all states via state-based vital records,
which are aggregated into annual national mortality reports by the
CDC’s National Center for Health Statistics. 5 Each year, the ACS,
the National Cancer Institute, and the CDC publish a Report to the
Nation on trends in cancer incidence and mortality in the United
States.6 Trends in the prevalence of behavioral factors that affect
cancer risk are tracked by the Health Interview Survey, an ongoing,
in-person interview of a nationally representative sample of adults,
and in annual reports by the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance
System, a continuously operating telephone-based survey operated
by state departments of health and organized by the CDC.7

relating trends in exposure to trends in rates is easy, because those
effects are large and single. However, for many other cancer risk
factors, because effects are much smaller and multifactorial, simple
correlations over time are less apparent. In most situations, all that
maybe possible are crude qualitative relationships between temporal trends in cancer risk factors and subsequent trends in cancer
rates. Statistical methods such as linear regression joinpoint analysis
can tell us when inflections in cancer trends occur, but accounting
for the precise reasons for changing rates is often impaired by our
incomplete knowledge about the interacting impacts of variations
in cancer screening, diagnosis, and treatment, and by uncertainties
about latencies between interventions and outcomes.8

TRENDS IN CANCER RISK FACTORS AND
SCREENING
Trends in major cancer risk factors have been mixed (Table 12.1).
Although the downward trends in tobacco smoking among adults that
began in the 1960s slowed after 1990, there has been a continuing
downward trend in the number of cigarettes smoked per day by continuing smokers.9 Obesity trends have been adverse among both men
and women since the 1970s, with more than a doubling of the prevalence of obesity between 1990 and 2010. Long-term trends in the use
of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) are not routinely monitored
in the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), but
HRT use increased substantially in the last 2 decades of the 20th century. Then, following the 2002 publication of the Women’s Health
Initiative trial, which showed clear adverse effects of HRT, there was
a rapid and substantial drop in HRT use.10,11 The use of endoscopic
screening for colorectal cancer (sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy) has
increased substantially in recent years, approximately doubling since
the mid 1990s, so that, as of 2010, about two-thirds of Americans age
50 and older reported ever having had an endoscopic examination.
Mammography use increased progressively through the 1990s, but
mammogram rates then leveled off after 2000.12 Widespread prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing began in the mid to late 1980s,
then increased substantially during the 1990s. By 2002, a majority of
US men age 50 and older reported having been tested.

CANCER INCIDENCE AND MORTALITY
In this chapter, we describe and discuss cancer trends for the time
period 1990 through 2010 using cancer incidence data from the
SEER-9 registry (Table 12.2 and Fig. 12.1) and US cancer mortality
data from the National Center for Health Statistics (Table 12.3).4,5
All rates were age-adjusted to the US 2000 standard population by
the direct method, using 10-year age intervals.

MAKING SENSE OF CANCER TRENDS

Lung Cancer

Understanding the reasons for cancer trends requires understanding trends in cancer-related risk factors. For factors like tobacco,

The lung is the second leading site for cancer incidence and the
leading site for cancer death among both men and women in the

128
tahir99 - UnitedVRG

129

Chapter 12 Trends in United States Cancer Mortality

TA B L E 1 2 . 1
Trends in Risk Factors and Cancer Screening Practices in the United States, 1990–2010a
Women

Both Genders

Smoking

PSA Screening

Smoking

Mammography

Obesity

CRC Screening

1990

24.9

—

21.3

58.3

11.6

—

1991

25.1

—

21.3

62.2

12.6

—

1992

24.2

—

21.0

63.1

12.6

—

1993

24.0

—

21.1

66.5

13.7

—

1994

23.9

—

21.6

66.6

14.4

—

1995

24.8

—

20.9

68.6

15.8

29.4

1996

25.5

—

21.9

69.2

16.8

—

1997

25.4

—

21.1

70.3

16.6

32.4

1998

25.3

—

20.9

72.3

18.3

—

1999

24.2

—

20.8

72.8

19.7

43.7

2000

24.4

—

21.2

76.1

20.1

—

2001

25.4

—

21.2

—

21.0

—

2002

25.7

53.9

20.8

75.9

22.1

48.1

2003

24.8

—

20.2

—

—

—

2004

23.0

52.1

19.0

74.7

23.2

53.0

2005

22.1

—

19.2

—

24.4

—

2006

22.2

53.8

18.4

76.5

25.1

57.1

2007

21.2

—

18.4

—

26.3

—

2008

20.3

54.8

16.7

76.0

26.6

61.8

2009

19.5

—

16.7

—

27.1

—

2010

18.5

53.2

15.8

75.2

27.5

65.2

CRC, colorectal cancer; PSA, prostate-specific antigen.
a
Median percent of the population across all states in the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. The survey covered such areas as body mass index and
was based on self-reported height and weight. Questions included: Are you a regular cigarette smoker? Have you ever had a sigmoidoscopy or proctoscopic
examination? For women age 40 and older, the following question was included: Have you had a mammogram in the past 2 years? For men aged 50 and older,
the following question was included: Have you had a PSA test in the last 2 years? (From Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Behavioral Risk Factor
Surveillance System Web site. http://cdc.gov/brfss.)

United States.6 There are now more deaths from lung cancer in
the United States than from the sum of colorectal, breast, and prostate
cancers. Trends in lung cancer incidence and mortality have been
nearly identical because there are few effective treatments for lung
cancer, and survival time remains short. Lung cancer trends follow
historic declines in tobacco use, lagged by about 20 years.13 Between
1965 and 1985, tobacco use among US adults dropped substantially,
and more in men than in women. Lung cancer mortality rates began
to decline among men in 1990, but rates increased among women
throughout the 1990s. The stabilization of lung cancer incidence
trends among women from 2000 to 2005 and the beginning of a decline in the period 2005 to 2010 foretells a coming persistent decline
in lung cancer mortality among women in the United States.
The effectiveness of annual examinations by use of chest radiographs in reducing lung cancer mortality was studied as part of the
Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, Ovary (PLCO) trial, and the effectiveness
of annual screening by low-dose computed tomography (LDCT) of
the lung fields was studied in the National Lung Screening Trial
(NLST).14,15 In brief, screening with standard chest radiography finds
more cancers earlier but does not affect mortality, whereas screening
with LDCT reduces the risk of death from lung cancer by at least
20%.14,15 Therefore, both the ACS and the US Preventive Services
Task Force have issued recommendations that favor informed decision making for lung cancer screening using LDCT.16,17
The major factor that will determine lung cancer incidence
in the coming decade is the past history of tobacco use, but future

screening will also reduce future mortality rates. Considering all factors, it is likely that over the coming decade the downward trends
in mortality from lung cancer will continue at about the same rate
among men, and soon will become more apparent among women.

Colorectal Cancer
The colorectum is the third leading site for cancer incidence and the
second leading site for cancer death in the United States.6 Colorectal
cancer incidence rates increased until 1985, when they began to decline. The reasons for this decline are not clear, but could be related
to downward trends in cigarette smoking and the increasing use of
both nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and HRT.18
The rapid decline in HRT use following the publication of the
Women’s Health Initiative trial results in 2002 may adversely affect
colorectal trends among women in the coming years, because HRT
reduces the risk for colorectal cancer among women.11 Recent trials
have demonstrated the potential for NSAIDs to reduce colorectal
neoplasia, but adverse effects from these agents will limit their widespread use for that explicit purpose. Nonetheless, even the common
sporadic use of NSAIDs for other indications will contribute to continuing declines in colorectal cancer incidence in the coming years.
Screening with either sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy leads
to the identification and removal of adenomas, thus preventing
the development of colorectal cancer.19,20 Medicare included

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Men

130

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Epidemiology of Cancer

TA B L E 1 2 . 2
Trends in Age-Adjusted Cancer Incidence Rates in the United States by Cancer Site,
1990–2010a
Men
Lung

Women
Prostate

Lung

Both Genders
Breast

Colorectal

All Sites

1990

96.9

171.0

47.8

131.8

60.7

482.0

1991

97.2

214.8

49.6

133.9

59.5

503.0

1992

97.2

237.4

49.9

132.1

58.0

510.6

1993

94.0

209.5

49.2

129.2

56.8

493.4

1994

90.9

180.3

50.5

131.0

55.6

483.5

1995

89.8

169.3

50.4

132.6

54.0

476.9

1996

88.0

169.5

50.2

133.7

54.8

479.1

1997

86.3

173.5

52.6

138.0

56.4

486.4

1998

88.0

171.0

53.0

141.4

56.8

488.2

1999

84.6

183.4

52.4

141.5

55.5

490.4

2000

82.1

183.0

51.2

136.4

54.1

486.0

2001

81.4

184.8

51.7

138.7

53.6

489.7

2002

80.4

182.2

52.5

135.6

53.1

487.5

2003

81.0

169.6

53.0

126.8

50.8

475.2

2004

76.2

165.7

52.0

128.0

50.0

476.1

2005

75.8

156.5

53.7

126.4

47.8

471.9

2006

74.2

171.5

53.4

126.0

46.8

475.0

2007

73.5

174.3

53.4

127.9

46.3

480.5

2008

72.0

157.0

51.6

128.0

45.2

473.4

2009

70.2

153.7

51.8

130.3

43.0

470.5

2010

66.8

145.1

49.2

126.0

40.6

457.5

Average annual
% change
1990–2010

–1.8

–0.5

+0.2

–0.2

–2.0

–0.2

a
Data source is the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results-9 populations for cancer incidence. Rates are age-adjusted to the year 2000 population standard. The
annual percent change is the mean percent change per year across the 20-year period, 1990 to 2010. (From National Cancer Institute. Surveillance, Epidemiology, and
End Results Program Web site. http://seer.cancer.gov.)

coverage for all recommended colorectal screening methods in
2001, and national publicity has substantially increased public
interest in screening.21 Colorectal screening rates have increased
over time, now with about two-thirds of adults over age 50 reporting having ever been screened by lower gastrointestinal endoscopy (see Table 12.1).
Decreasing rates of colorectal cancer incidence are occurring in spite of the obesity epidemic, which is an adverse force on
colorectal cancer risk, because obesity may account for as much
as 20% of colorectal cancer in the United States.22 Recently, however, obesity trends have stabilized in the United States. 23 As a
result of the increased use of lower gastrointestinal endoscopy for
colorectal screening and this stabilization of obesity trends, the
incidence of colorectal cancer may exceed the ACS goal for 2015
of a 25% reduction, and there is a high likelihood that the rate of
decline in deaths from colorectal cancer will be steep enough to
reach the 2015 ACS mortality reduction goal of 50%.

Breast Cancer
The breast is the leading site of cancer incidence and the second
leading site for cancer death among women in the United States.6
Over the period 1990 to 2001, no substantial changes in incidence

rates were observed, but after 2000, breast cancer incidence began
to decline. The decline in breast cancer incidence observed after
2002 seems to have been the result of the sudden decline in the
use of HRT following the 2002 publication of the Women’s Health
Initiative results.10,11 It is likely that persisting lower rates of HRT
use will cause a continued decline in breast cancer incidence in
the coming years. Countering this favorable trend, however, are
the adverse effects of the obesity epidemic. Obesity, a major risk
factor for postmenopausal breast cancer, increased substantially
between 1990 and 2005, now with over 25% of US women being
obese. However, the slowing of the obesity epidemic since 2005
may have substantial beneficial effects on the future trends in
breast cancer incidence.
After persistent increases in the use of mammography over a
20-year period, mammography rates declined modestly between
2000 and 2004, and then leveled off. The downgrading of the evidence recommendations by the US Preventive Services Task Force
for mammography for women age 40 to 49 and recommendations
for every other year mammographies for women age 50 and older
have resulted in lower mammogram utilization, which is likely
to continue into the coming decade.17 This trend will have an
adverse effect on breast cancer mortality, but will tend to reduce
breast cancer incidence somewhat because of a lack of detection
of very early stage cancers.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 12 Trends in United States Cancer Mortality

Lung Cancer–Males

120
Percent of 1990 Rate

100
90
80
70
60

110
100
90
80
70
60
50

50

Colorectal Cancer

110
Percent of 1990 Rate

Percent of 1990 Rate

Year

100
90
80
70
60
50

90
80
70
60
50

15
20

10
20
08
20
06
20
04
20
02
20
00
20
98
19
96
19
94
19
92
19
90
19

15
20

10
20
08
20
06
20
04
20
02
20
00
20
98
19
96
19
94
19
92
19
90
19

Year

Prostate Cancer

110
Percent of 1990 Rate

Percent of 1990 Rate

Breast Cancer

100

Year
140
130
120
110
100
90
80
70
60
50

15
20

10
20
08
20
06
20
04
20
02
20
00
20
98
19
96
19
94
19
92
19
90
19

15
20

10
20
08
20
06
20
04
20
02
20
00
20
98
19
96
19
94
19
92
19
90
19
Year
110

Lung Cancer–Females

All Cancer Sites

100
90
80
70
60
50

15
20

10
20
08
20
06
20
04
20
02
20
00
20
98
19
96
19
94
19
92
19
90
19

15
20

10
20
08
20
06
20
04
20
02
20
00
20
98
19
96
19
94
19
92
19
90
19
Year

Year

Figure 12.1 (A–F) Trends in cancer incidence and mortality between 1990 and 2010. Incidence rates are for the populations in the Surveillance,
Epidemiology, and End Results Program; registries and mortality rates are for the entire United States. Rates are age-adjusted to the year 2000
standard. The y-axis rates are expressed as a percentage of the 1990 incidence and mortality rates. The red lines represent incidence rates, and the
blue lines represent mortality rates. The straight dotted green lines represent the linear trend that would need to be followed to achieve a 50% mortality
reduction between 1990 and 2015. (Data from National Cancer Institute. Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program Web site. http://seer
.cancer.gov, and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. U.S. mortality data. http://wonder.cdc.gov/ucd-icd10.html)

The antiestrogens tamoxifen and raloxifene have both been
shown to reduce the risk of incident breast cancer.24 The safety
profile for tamoxifen discourages its widespread use, but there is
a more favorable risk/benefit balance of raloxifene. Nonetheless,
neither of these drugs is commonly used for breast cancer prevention among postmenopausal women in the United States.
The average decline in breast cancer death rates of 2% per year
since 1990 is the combined result of earlier diagnosis and better
treatment.25 Progress in breast cancer treatment is continuing, especially in the development and application of hormone-targeted
therapies. Aromatase inhibitors have largely replaced tamoxifen
therapy for breast cancer treatment for postmenopausal women.
Because all antiestrogens substantially reduce the incidence of second primary cancers in the contralateral breast, they impact both
therapy and prevention. In the coming decade, the longer term
effects of decreased HRT use, increased antiestrogen use, reversal

of the obesity trends, and continued improvements in therapies
will likely lead to continued decreases in both the incidence and
mortality rates from breast cancer.

Prostate Cancer
The prostate is the leading site for cancer incidence and the second
leading site for cancer death among men in the United States.6 The
incidence of prostate cancer has been extremely variable over the
period 1990 to 2010. The incidence spike observed in the early 1990s
actually began in the late 1980s, coincident with the advent of PSA
testing. The reasons for the 2.8% annual downward trend in prostate cancer mortality since 1990 are uncertain, however, because the
ongoing PSA screening trials have not yet demonstrated a mortality
benefit from screening anywhere as large as the downward mortality

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Percent of 1990 Rate

110

131

132

Etiology and Epidemiology of Cancer / Epidemiology of Cancer

TA B L E 1 2 . 3
Trends in Age-Adjusted Cancer Mortality Rates in the United States by Cancer Site,
1990–2010a
Men

Women

Both Genders

Lung

Prostate

Lung

Breast

Colorectal

All Sites

1990

90.6

38.6

36.8

33.1

24.6

214.9

1991

89.9

39.3

37.6

32.7

24.0

215.1

1992

88.0

39.2

38.7

31.6

23.6

213.5

1993

87.6

39.3

39.3

31.4

23.3

213.4

1994

85.7

38.5

39.6

30.9

22.9

211.7

1995

84.4

37.3

40.3

30.6

22.6

210.0

1996

82.8

36.0

40.4

29.5

21.9

207.0

1997

81.3

34.2

40.8

28.2

21.5

203.6

1998

79.9

32.6

41.0

27.5

21.2

200.8

1999

77.0

31.6

40.2

26.6

20.9

200.7

2000

76.5

30.4

41.1

26.6

20.7

198.8

2001

75.3

29.5

41.0

26.0

20.2

196.3

2002

73.7

28.7

41.6

25.6

19.8

194.4

2003

72.0

27.2

41.3

25.3

19.1

190.9

2004

70.4

26.2

41.0

24.5

18.1

186.8

2005

69.5

25.4

40.7

24.1

17.6

185.2

2006

67.4

24.2

40.3

23.6

17.3

182.0

2007

65.2

24.2

40.1

23.0

16.9

179.3

2008

63.7

23.0

39.1

22.6

16.5

176.3

2009

61.5

22.1

38.6

22.2

15.8

173.4

2010

60.1

21.8

38.0

22.0

15.5

171.8

Average annual
% change
1990–2010

–2.0

–2.8

+0.2

–2.0

–2.3

–1.1

a
Data source is the National Center for Health Statistics national mortality data set. Rates are age-adjusted to the year 2000 population standard. The average
percentage change per year is the mean percent change per year across the 20-year period, 1990 to 2010. (From Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
U.S. mortality data. http://wonder.cdc.gov/ucd‐icd10.html)

decline observed since 1990.26,27 In fact, the US trial findings suggest
that there was virtually no mortality benefit within the first decade
following the initiation of screening.28 Therefore, it is not possible to
know how much of this favorable trend was related to early diagnosis,
how much was related to improvements in treatment, or how much
might have been related to other factors, such as changes in the way
cause of death has been listed on death certificates.
The Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial provided an important
proof of principle that antiandrogen therapies can reduce prostate
cancer risk.29 Although the net benefits of finasteride for prevention are not clearly demonstrated from this trial, other agents that
interfere with androgen effects on prostate cancer growth could
prove to be useful for prostate cancer chemoprevention in the
future. Prostate cancer incidence trends will likely continue to be
largely driven by rates of PSA screening in the coming decade.
Longer term results of a clearer benefit to mortality from either the
PLCO trial in the United States or the European PSA trial would
help to better specify screening recommendations.

Other Cancers
Even though mortality rates have been declining by about 2% per
year from the four most common causes of cancer death (lung,

colorectal, breast, and prostate), very little progress has been made
in reducing death rates from the other half of all adult cancers
in the United States. Continuing progress in tobacco control will
have beneficial effects on many other types of cancer linked to
tobacco, and stopping the obesity epidemic will have favorable
effects on many obesity-related cancers that have been increasing in recent years, such as adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and
renal cancer.30 Melanoma incidence rates have been increasing
substantially in recent years, likely the result of the combined
effects of previous sun exposure and increased awareness and
surveillance for pigmented skin lesions, but recent advances in
therapy for metastatic melanoma may foretell future declines in
melanoma morality. Declining rates of stomach cancer incidence
and mortality over several decades may be related to the combined
effects of historic improvements in nutrition and the declining
prevalence of chronic infection with Helicobacter pylori. Liver
cancer incidence has been substantially increasing in recent years,
likely resulting from historic trends in chronic infection with hepatitis B and C viruses. As a result, liver cancer will likely continue to
rise in the United States over the coming decade.
The incidence of thyroid cancer has been increasing in the
United States for the past several decades, but thyroid cancer mortality rates have been stable, a pattern most likely due to increased
detection from improved diagnostic techniques. Invasive cervical

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

cancer is uncommon in the United States because of widespread
screening using Pap smears. Although the vaccination for human
papillomavirus (HPV) has been shown to be highly effective in
protecting against the serotypes that together account for 70% of
cervical cancer cases, so far, HPV vaccine coverage has been low
among young women in the United States.6 For many of the other
cancers, such as cancers of the pancreas, brain, ovary, and the hematopoietic malignancies, risk factors are poorly understood, and
there are no effective early detection methods. For these cancers,
the current hope for improvement resides in the development of
better methods for early cancer detection and treatment.

PREDICTING FUTURE CANCER TRENDS
In the United States, cancer is now the leading cause of death
under age 85 years. Over the first half of the ACS 25-year challenge
period, overall cancer incidence rates have declined by about 0.2%
per year, and mortality rates have declined by about 1% per year.
The trends in both incidence and mortality from the four leading
cancer sites are summarized in Figure 12.1. Using simple linear
extrapolation, it therefore seems that the ACS challenge goals of
reducing cancer incidence by 25% and mortality by 50% over 25
years may be only half achieved.31,32 Clearly, though, estimating
future trends only by linear extrapolation is a crude way to foretell
future events. Projecting cancer trends into the more distant future

133

using complex modeling is possible, however, as knowledge about
changes in major cancer risk factors can lead to reasonable predictions about the direction and approximate slope of future trends.
One method to incorporate knowledge about trends in risk factors
into estimates of future cancer trends is to estimate the impact of
changes in the attributable risk (also called the preventable fraction) in the population for each risk factor. By making assumptions
about latency period, then tying changes in factors to changes in
cancer incidence and mortality, cancer trends resulting from risk
factor changes can be predicted. For example, if there were a factor
that explained 30% of a particular cancer, then cutting that exposure in half would eventually lead to a projected 15% reduction
in rates (50% of 30%). This method was used to project cancer
mortality trends to 2015 and seems to have projected trends that
are quite similar to those observed in recent years.33
Progress in cancer prevention, early detection, and treatment
since 1990 has been persistent, and there are many reasons to
be optimistic about the future. Just how much steeper the future
downward slope in cancer death rates can be driven will depend
on the extent to which we can discover new factors causing cancer,
and effectively deploy ways to better act on our current knowledge
about how to prevent and control cancer. Especially important
will be progress in reversing the epidemics of tobacco use and obesity, and ensuring that the coming improvements to health care
access will lead to access to state-of-the-art cancer screening and
therapy for all.

R E F E R E N C E S
1. American Cancer Society Board of Directors. ACS Challenge goals for U.S.
Cancer Mortality for the Year 2015. Proceedings of the Board of Directors.
Atlanta, GA: American Cancer Society, 1996.
2. American Cancer Society Board of Directors. ACS Challenge goals for U.S.
Cancer Incidence for the Year 2015. Proceedings of the Board of Directors.
Atlanta, GA: American Cancer Society, 1998.
3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. National Program of Cancer
Registries (NPCR) Web site. http://cdc.gov/cancer/npcr.
4. National Cancer Institute. Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results
Program Web site. http://seer.cancer.gov.
5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. U.S. mortality data. http://
wonder.cdc.gov/ucd‐icd10.html
6. Jemal A, Simard E, Dorell C, et al. Annual report to the nation on the status
of cancer, 1975–2009, featuring the burden and trends in human papillomavirus (HPV)–associated cancers and HPV vaccination coverage levels. J Natl
Cancer Inst 2013;105:175–201.
7. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System Web site. http://cdc.gov/brfss.
8. Ward E, Thun M, Hannan L, et al. Interpreting cancer trends. Ann N Y Acad
Sci 2006;1076:29–53.
9. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Smoking & Tobacco Use Web
site. http://cdc.gov/tobacco.
10. Rossouw JE, Anderson GL, Prentice RL, et al. Risks and benefits of estrogen plus progestin in healthy postmenopausal women: principal results from
the Women’s Health Initiative randomized controlled trial. JAMA 2002;
288:321–333.
11. Hersh A, Stefanick M, Stafford R. National use of postmenopausal hormone
therapy: annual trends and response to recent evidence. JAMA 2004;291:47–53.
12. Ryerson AB, Miller J, Eheman CR, et al. Use of mammograms among women
aged ≥40 years—United States, 2000–2005. MMWR 2007;56:49–51.
13. Giovino GA. Epidemiology of tobacco use in the United States. Oncogene
2002;21:7326–7340.
14. Oken M, Hocking W, Kvale P, et al. Screening by chest radiograph and lung
cancer mortality. JAMA 2011;306:1865–1873.
15. The National Lung Screening Trial Research Team. Reduced lung-cancer
mortality with low-dose computed tomographic screening. N Engl J Med 2011;
365:395–409.
16. Smith R, Brooks D, Cokkinides V, et al. Cancer screening in the United
States, 2013: a review of current American Cancer Society guidelines, current issues in cancer screening, and new guidance on cervical cancer screening and lung cancer screening. CA Cancer J Clin 2013;63:88–105.
17. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force
Web site. http://uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org.

18. Martinez ME. Primary prevention of colorectal cancer: lifestyle, nutrition,
exercise. Recent Results Cancer Res 2005;166:177–211.
19. Atkin W, Edwards R, Kralj-Hans I, et al. Once-only flexible sigmoidoscopy
screening in prevention of colorectal cancer: a multicentre randomized controlled trial. Lancet 2010;375:1624–1633.
20. Schoen RE, Pinsky PF, Weissfeld JL, et al. Colorectal-cancer incidence
and mortality with screening flexible sigmoidoscopy. N Engl J Med 2012;
366:2345–2357.
21. Cram P, Fendrick A, Inadomi J, et al. The impact of celebrity promotional
campaign on the use of colon cancer screening: the Katie Couric effect. Arch
Intern Med 2003;163(13):1601–1605.
22. World Cancer Research Fund/American Institute for Cancer Prevention.
Policy and Action for Cancer Prevention. Food, Nutrition, and Physical Activity:
A Global Perspective. Washington, DC: AICR; 2009.
23. Ogden CL, Carroll MD, Curtin LR, et al. Prevalence of overweight and
obesity in the United States, 1999–2004. JAMA 2006;295:1549–1555.
24. Vogel V, Constantino J, Wickerham D, et al. Effects of tamoxifen vs raloxifene on the risks of developing invasive breast cancer and other disease
outcomes: the NSABP Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene (STAR) P-2 trial.
JAMA 2006;295:2727–2741.
25. Berry D, Cronin K, Plevritis S, et al. Effect of screening and adjuvant therapy
on mortality from breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2005;353:1784–1792.
26. Andriole GL, Crawford ED, Grubb RL 3rd, et al. Mortality results from a randomized prostate-cancer screening trial. N Engl J Med 2009;360(13):1310–1319.
27. Schröder FH, Hugosson J, Roobol MJ, et al. Screening and prostate-cancer mortality in a randomized European study. N Engl J Med 2009;360(13):1320–1328.
28. Andriole G, Crawford D, Grubb R, et al. Prostate cancer screening in the
randomized Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, and Ovarian Cancer Screening Trial: mortality results after 13 years of follow-up. J Natl Cancer Inst
2012;104:125–132.
29. Thompson I, Goodman P, Tangen C, et al. Long-term survival of participants
in the prostate cancer prevention trial. N Engl J Med 2013;369:603–610.
30. International Agency for Cancer Research. Weight Control and Physical
Activity. Handbook 6. Lyon, France: IARC Press; 2002.
31. Sedjo R, Byers T, Barrera E, et al. A midpoint assessment of the American
Cancer Society challenge goal to decrease cancer incidence by 25% between
1992 and 2015. CA Cancer J Clin 2007;57:326–340.
32. Byers T, Barrera E, Fontham E, et al. A midpoint assessment of the American Cancer Society challenge goal to halve the U.S. cancer mortality rates
between the years 1990 and 2015. Cancer 2006;107:396–405.
33. Byers T, Mouchawar J, Marks J, et al. The American Cancer Society challenge goals. How far can cancer rates decline in the U.S. by the year 2015?
Cancer 1999;86:715–727.

ETIOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY OF CANCER

Chapter 12 Trends in United States Cancer Mortality

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

P A R T

Cancer
Therapeutics

I I I

13

Essentials of Radiation
Therapy

Meredith A. Morgan, Randall K. Ten Haken, and Theodore S. Lawrence

INTRODUCTION
The beneficial use of radiation was launched by the experiments of
Wilhelm Roentgen, who, in 1895, found that x-rays could pass through
materials that were impenetrable to light. Emil Grubbe provided one
of the early examples of the therapeutic use of radiation by treating an
advanced ulcerated breast cancer with x-rays in January 1896. We have
made great progress since these early days, which has been strongly
influenced by research in radiation chemistry, biology, and physics.

BIOLOGIC ASPECTS OF RADIATION
ONCOLOGY
Radiation-Induced DNA Damage
Radiation is administered to cells either in the form of photons
(x-rays and gamma rays) or particles (protons, neutrons, and electrons). When photons or particles interact with biologic material,
they cause ionizations that can either directly interact with subcellular structures or they can interact with water, the major constituent of cells, and generate free radicals that can then interact with
subcellular structures (Fig. 13.1).
The direct effects of radiation are the consequence of the DNA
in chromosomes absorbing energy that leads to ionizations. This is
the major mechanism of DNA damage induced by charged nuclei
(such as a carbon nucleus) and neutrons and is termed high linear
energy transfer (Fig. 13.2). In contrast, the interaction of photons
with other molecules, such as water, results in the production of
free radicals, some of which possess a lifetime long enough to be
able to diffuse to the nucleus and interact with DNA in the chromosomes. This is the major mechanism of DNA damage induced
by x-rays and has been termed low linear energy transfer.1
A free radical generated through the interaction of photons with
other molecules that possess an unpaired electron in their outermost shell (e.g., hydroxyl radicals) can abstract a hydrogen molecule
from a macromolecule such as DNA to generate damage. Cells that
have increased levels of free radical scavengers, such as glutathione, would have less DNA damage induced by x-rays, but would
have similar levels of DNA damage induced by a carbon nucleus
that is directly absorbed by chromosomal DNA. Furthermore, a low
oxygen environment would also protect cells from x-ray–induced
damage because there would be fewer radicals available to induce
DNA damage in the absence of oxygen, but this environment would
have little impact on DNA damage induced by carbon nuclei.2

Cellular Responses to Radiation-Induced DNA
Damage
Checkpoint Pathways
The cell cycle must progress in a specific order; checkpoint genes
ensure that the initiation of late events is delayed until earlier

events are complete. There are three principal places in the cell
cycle at which checkpoints induced by DNA damage function:
the border between G1 phase and S phase, intra-S phase, and
the border between G2 phase and mitosis (Fig. 13.3). Cells with
an intact checkpoint function that have sustained DNA damage
stop progressing through the cycle and become arrested at the
next checkpoint in the cell cycle. For example, cells with damaged DNA in G1 phase avoid replicating that damage by arresting
at the G1/S interface. If irradiated cells have already passed the
restriction point, a position in G1 phase that is regulated by the
phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor gene (Rb)
and its dissociation from the E2F family of transcription factors,
they will transiently arrest in S phase. The G1/S and intra-S phase
checkpoints inhibit the replication of damaged DNA and work in
a coordinated manner with the DNA repair machinery to permit
the restitution of DNA integrity, thereby increasing cell survival.
The earliest response to radiation is the activation of ataxiatelangiectasia mutated (ATM), which involves a conformational
change that results in the activation of its kinase domain and phosphorylation of serine 1981 (see Fig. 13.3).3 This phosphorylation
causes the ATM homodimer to dissociate into active monomers
that phosphorylate a wide range of proteins such as 53BP1, the
histone variant H2AX, Nbs1 (Nijmegen breakage syndrome; a
member of the MRN complex, composed of Mre11, Rad50, and
Nbs1), BRCA1, and SMC1 (structural maintenance of chromosomes), and these proteins coordinate repair with the cell cycle.4
In response to DNA damage, H2AX is rapidly phosphorylated by
ATM and localizes to sites of DNA double-strand breaks in multiprotein complexes described as foci (Fig. 13.4). Phosphorylation
of H2AX by ATM results in the direct recruitment of Mdc1 and
forms a complex with H2AX to recruit additional ATM molecules,
forming a positive feedback loop.
The G1/S phase checkpoint is the best understood. In response
to DNA damage, activated ATM can directly phosphorylate p53 and
mdm2, the ubiquitin ligase that targets p53 for degradation. These
phosphorylations are important for increasing the stability of the
p53 protein. In addition to ATM, checkpoint kinase 2 (Chk2) also
phosphorylates p53 and can enhance p53 stability. Activated p53
transcriptionally increases the expression of the p21WAF1/CIPI gene,
which results in a sustained inhibition of G1 cyclin/Cdk, and prevents phosphorylation of pRb and progression from G1 into S.5 Mutations in p53 that are commonly found in solid tumors result in loss
of transcriptional activity and compromised checkpoint function.
Control of the S-phase checkpoint is mediated in part by the
Cdc25A phosphatase inhibiting Cdk2 activity and the loading of
Cdc45 onto chromatin. If Cdc45 fails to bind to chromatin, DNA
polymerase α is not recruited to replication origins and replicon
initiation fails to occur.6 A more prominent mechanism for S-phase
arrest is signaled through the MRN complex and the cohesin protein SMC1 by ATM.7 Loss of ATM, MRN components, or SMC1
leads to the loss of the intra-S phase checkpoint function and
increased radiosensitivity. Both the CDC45 and ATM pathways
represent parallel, but seemingly independent, pathways to protect
replication forks from trying to replicate through DNA strand

136
tahir99 - UnitedVRG

137

Chapter 13 Essentials of Radiation Therapy

OH

ATM

Photon
e
INDIRECT
ACTION

DSB
AX
H2

ssDNA

ATM
MRN

RPA
ATRIP
P1
pB
To

M
DC
1

MD
C1

S1981-

Chk2

p53
Photon

Chk1

Cdc25A/C

p21

Wee 1
Cdk2
CyclinE/A

20Å

Cdk1
CyclinB

S
G2

STOP

Figure 13.1 The direct and indirect effects of ionizing radiation on DNA.

Transducer

STOP

Incident photons transfer part of their energy to free electrons (Compton
scattering). These electrons can directly interact with DNA to induce DNA
damage, or they can first interact with water to produce hydroxyl radicals
that can then induce damage.

Sensor
Mediator

STOP

Effector
G1

M

Figure 13.3 In response to DNA damage, the MRN complex—composed

breaks. Although ATM has received the lion’s share of attention in
signaling checkpoint activation in response to ionizing radiation,
its family member ATR (ataxia telangiectasia and rad3-related)
also plays a role in S-phase checkpoint responses.8 ATM kinase
activity is inducible by radiation, whereas ATR kinase activity is
constitutive and does not significantly change with irradiation.
(ATR is described in more detail in Chapter 19.) In contrast to
Cdc45 and ATM, ATR is probably more important in monitoring

100 keV/µ

200 keV/µ

20A

X-ray

of MRE11, Rad50, and NBS1—together with ataxia-telangiectasia
mutation (ATM) and H2AX are the earliest proteins recruited to the site
of the break. ATM is released from its homodimer complex, activated
by transautophosphorylation and, in turn, phosphorylates H2AX. Other
members are recruited to the complex such as BRCA1 and 53BP1. As the
DNA at the double-strand break (DSB) is resected, single-stranded DNA
is formed and bound by replication protein A (RPA), resulting in the
activation of the ataxia-telangiectasia and Rad3-related (ATR) pathway.
The net result of ATM/ATR activation is the downstream activation of p53,
leading to the transcription of the Cdk inhibitor, p21, and the activation
of Chk1/Chk2, resulting in the degradation of Cdc25 phosphatases, Cdkcyclin complex inactivation, and cell cycle arrest at phase G1, intra S,
or G2. Note that ATM is also partially activated by changes in chromatin
structure induced by DNA double-strand breaks.

A

B

RBE

Figure 13.4 Phosphorylated histone variant H2AX as a marker of DNA
LET
Figure 13.2 Linear energy transfer and DNA damage. Ionizing radiation
deposits energy along the track (linear energy transfer [LET]), which
causes DNA damage and cell killing. The most biologically potent (highest
relative biologic effectiveness [RBE]) LET is 100 keV per μm because
the separation between ionizing events is the same as the diameter of
the DNA double helix (2 nm). (From Hall EJ, Giaccia AJ. Radiobiology for
the Radiologist. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Williams; 2012, with
permission.)

damage. Phosphorylated histone variant H2AX (also called gamma H2AX)
localizes to sites of DNA double-strand breaks, so that its appearance
and disappearance correspond with induction and repair of breaks. The
cells in panels A and B have been stained with DAPI (4′,6-diamidino2-phenylindole) (blue) in order to visualize cell nuclei and stained with
an antibody, which recognizes gamma H2AX (red). The cells in A are
untreated and exhibit little to no gamma H2AX staining, whereas the cells
in B are treated with 7.5 Gy radiation and exhibit strong gamma H2AX
staining at punctate foci in the nuclei, which are thought to correlate with
sites of DNA double-strand breaks. (Image provided by Dr. Leslie Parsels,
University of Michigan.)

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

DIRECT
ACTION

Rad17
9-1-1
RFC

P

e
p

P

ATR
BRCA1

P

Claspin

p

BRCA1
53BP1

H2O

ATM

138

Cancer Therapeutics

perturbations in replication that are the result of stalled replication
forks to prevent the formation of DNA double-strand breaks.
The arrest of cells in the G2 phase following DNA damage is
one of the most conserved evolutionary responses to ionizing radiation. It makes sense to have a final checkpoint in the G2 phase to
prevent cells from entering into mitosis with damaged DNA that
could be transmitted to their progeny. It follows that cells lacking the G2 checkpoint are radiosensitive because they try to divide
with damaged chromosomes that cannot be aligned at metaphase
to be properly apportioned to daughter cells. At the biochemical
level, the regulation of the mitosis-promoting factor cyclin B/Cdk1
is the critical step in the activation of this checkpoint. At the molecular level, ATM and Chk1/2 are activated by DNA damage in
the G2 phase and inhibit the activation of Cdc25A and C phosphatases, which are essential for the activation of cyclin B/Cdk1.9,
10
The pololike kinase family (Plk1 and Plk3) also responds to
DNA damage and can inhibit Cdc25C activation.11 A great deal of
effort has been focused on the development of small molecules to
inhibit checkpoint response proteins, such as Chk1, with the idea
that they would inhibit radiation-induced G2 arrest and perhaps
repair and thus be used as radiation sensitizers.12

the cell cycle and by the abundance of repetitive DNA. HRR is used
primarily in the late S phase/G2 phases of the cell-cycle, and NHEJ
predominates in the G1-phase of the cell cycle (Fig. 13.5). NHEJ
and HRR are not mutually exclusive, and both have been found to
be active in the late S/G2 phase of the cell cycle, indicating that factors in addition to the cell-cycle phase are important in determining
which mechanism will be used to repair DNA strand breaks.
Nonhomologous End Joining. In the G1-phase of the cell
cycle, the ligation of DNA double-strand breaks is primarily
through NHEJ because a sister chromatid does not exist to provide
a template for HRR. The damaged ends of DNA double-strand
breaks must first be modified before rejoining. The process of
NHEJ can be divided into at least four steps: synapsis, end processing, fill-in synthesis, and ligation (Fig. 13.6).16 Synapsis is the critical initial step where the Ku heterodimer and the DNA-dependent
protein kinase catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs) bind to the ends of
the DNA double-strand break. Ku recruits not only DNA-PKcs to

Homologous recombination

DNA Repair
Ionizing radiation causes base damage, single-strand breaks, doublestrand breaks, and sugar damage, as well as DNA–DNA, and DNA–
protein cross-links. The critical target for ionizing radiation-induced
cell inactivation and cell killing is the DNA double-strand break.13,14
In eukaryotic cells, DNA double-strand breaks can be repaired by
two processes: homologous recombination repair (HRR), which requires an undamaged DNA strand as a participant in the repair, and
nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ), which mediates end-to-end
joining.15 In lower eukaryotes, such as yeast, HRR is the predominant pathway used for repairing DNA double-strand breaks, whereas
mammalian cells use both HHR and non-HHR to repair their DNA.
In mammalian cells, the choice of repair is biased by the phase of

Nonhomologous end joining
5’

3’

DSB

Ku 70

Ku 80

DNA-PK

Nbs 1
Mre 11

3’

DSB
Nbs 1

5’

Mre 11

3’ resection

Rad50

Rad52 End binding

Rad51-mediated
reactions

Single-strand
annealing

Strand
invastion

Rad51, BRCA1
BRACA2

MMS4
MUS81

Cleavage of 3’
nonhomology

End recognition
by Ku70, Ku80
Ku 80 and DNA-Pkcs

DNA-PK

“End processing”

Rad50

XRCC4
Ligase IV
Ku 70

Ku 70

5’

Branch
migration
“End bridging”

Ku 80

DNA-PK

Ku 70

Ku 80

DNA-PK

Ligation

Ligation

Figure 13.5 Schematic of the critical steps and proteins involved in
nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ). The process of NHEJ can be divided
into at least four steps: synapsis, end processing, fill-in synthesis, and
ligation. DSB, double-strand break.

Holliday
junction
resolution

Figure 13.6 Schematic of the critical steps and proteins involved in
homologous recombination repair (HRR). The process of HRR can be
divided into the following steps: double-strand break (DSB) targeting by
H2AX and the MRN complex, recruitment of the ataxia-telangiectasia
mutation (ATM) kinase, end processing and protection, strand exchange,
single-strand gap filling, and resolution into unique double-stranded
molecules.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 13 Essentials of Radiation Therapy

139

Homologous Recombination. HRR provides the mammalian
genome a high-fidelity pathway of repairing DNA double-strand
breaks. In contrast to NHEJ, HRR requires physical contact with
an undamaged DNA template, such as a sister chromatid, for repair
to occur. In response to a double-strand break, ATM as well as the
complex of Mre11, Rad50, and Nbs1 proteins (MRN complex),
are recruited to sites of DNA double-strand breaks (Fig. 13.6).20
The MRN complex is also involved in the recruitment of the
breast cancer tumor suppressor gene, BRCA1, to the site of the
break.21 In addition to recruiting BRCA1 to the site of the DNA
strand break, Mre11 and as yet unidentified endonucleases resect
the DNA, resulting in a 3′ single-strand DNA that serves as a binding site for Rad51. BRCA2, which is recruited to the double-strand
break by BRCA1, facilitates the loading of the Rad51 protein onto
replication protein A (RPA)-coated single-strand overhangs that
are produced by endonuclease resection.22 The Rad51 protein is a
homolog of the Escherichia coli recombinase RecA, and possesses
the ability to form nucleofilaments and catalyze strand exchange
with the complementary strand of the undamaged chromatid, an
essential step in HRR. Five additional paralogs of Rad51 also bind
to the RPA-coated single-stranded region and recruit Rad52, which
binds DNA and protects against exonucleolytic degradation.23 To
facilitate repair, the Rad54 protein uses its ATPase activity to unwind the double-stranded molecule. The two invading ends serve
as primers for DNA synthesis, resulting in structures known as Holliday junctions. These Holliday junctions are resolved either by
noncrossing over, in which case the Holliday junctions disengage
and the DNA strands align followed by gap filling, or by crossing
over of the Holliday junctions and gap filling. Because inactivation
of most of the HRR genes discussed previously results in radiosensitivity and genomic instability, these genes provide a critical link
between HRR and chromosome stability.

Chromosome Aberrations Result from Faulty
DNA Double-Strand Break Repair
Unfaithful restitution of DNA strand breaks can lead to chromosome
aberrations such as acentric fragments (no centromeres) or terminal
deletions (uncapped chromosome ends). Radiation-induced DNA
double-strand breaks also induce exchange-type aberrations that are
the consequence of symmetric translocations between two DNA
double-strand breaks in two different chromosomes (Fig. 13.7).
Symmetrical chromosome translocations often do not lead to lethality, because genetic information is not lost in subsequent cell
divisions. In contrast, when two DNA double-strand breaks in
two different chromosomes recombine to form one chromosome
with two centromeres and two fragments of chromosomes without
centromeres or telomeres, cell death is inevitable. These types of
chromosome aberrations are the consequence of asymmetrical
chromosome translocations where the genetic material is recombined in what has been termed an illegitimate manner (e.g., a chromosome containing an extra centromere).

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

the DNA ends, but also artemis, a protein that possesses endonuclease activity for 5′ and 3′ overhangs as well as hairpins.17 DNA-PKcs
that is bound to the broken DNA ends phosphorylates artemis and
activates its endonuclease activity for end processing. This role of
artemis’ endonuclease activity in NHEJ may not necessarily be
required for the ligation of blunt ends or ends with compatible termini. DNA polymerase μ is associated with the Ku/DNA/XRCC4/
DNA ligase IV complex, and is probably the polymerase that is
used in the fill-in reaction. The actual rejoining of DNA ends
is mediated by a XRCC4/DNA ligase IV complex, which is also
probably recruited by the Ku heterodimer.18,19 Although NHEJ is
effective at rejoining DNA double-strand breaks, it is highly error
prone. In fact, the main physiologic role of NHEJ is to generate
antibodies through V(D)J rejoining, and the error-prone nature of
NHEJ is essential for generating antibody diversity.

Figure 13.7 Fluorescent in situ hybridization of DNA probes that
specifically recognize chromosome 4. In unirradiated cells (top),
two chromosome 4s are visualized. In irradiated cells (bottom), one
chromosome 4 illegitimately recombined with another chromosome to
produce an asymmetrical chromosome aberration, with resulting acentric
fragments that will be lost in subsequent cell divisions.

During mitosis, when a cell divides, aberrant chromosomes
that have two centromeres, lack a centromere, or are in the shape
of a ring have difficulty in separating, resulting in daughter cells
with unequal or asymmetric distribution of the parental genetic
material. The quantification of asymmetric chromosome aberrations induced by radiation is difficult and has to be performed by
the first cell division because these aberrations will be lost during subsequent cell divisions. For this reason, symmetrical chromosome aberrations have been used to assess radiation-induced
damage many generations after exposure because they are not lost
from the population of exposed cells. In fact, symmetrical chromosome aberrations can be detected in the descendants of survivors of
Hiroshima and Nagasaki, indicating that they are stable biomarkers of radiation exposure.24

Membrane Signaling
Apart from the direct of effects on DNA, radiation also affects cellular membranes. As part of the cellular stress response, radiation
activates membrane receptor signaling pathways such those initiated via epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and transforming growth factor β (TGF-β).25,26 Activation of these pathways
promotes overall survival in response to radiation by promoting
DNA damage repair and/or cellular proliferation. In addition,

140

Cancer Therapeutics

Cellular Response to Genotoxic Stress
Irreversible Block 24 h
Apoptosis 24 h
Apoptosis 48 h
Mitotic death 72 h

0h

24 h

48 h

Colony
Formation

72 h

Figure 13.8 Consequences of exposure to ionizing radiation at the
cellular level. Cells exposed to ionizing radiation can enter a state of
senescence where they are unable to divide, but are still able to secrete
growth factors. Alternatively, cells can die through apoptosis, mitotic
linked cell death, or they can repair their DNA damage and produce viable
progeny.

radiation also induces ceramide production at the membrane via
activation of sphingomyelinases, which hydrolyze sphingomyelin
to form ceramide. Ceramide production is linked to radiationinduced apoptosis.27

The Effect of Radiation on Cell Survival
The major potential consequences of cells exposed to ionizing
radiation are normal cell division, DNA damage–induced senescence (reproductively inactive but metabolically active), apoptosis, or mitotic-linked cell death (Fig. 13.8). These manifestations
of DNA damage can occur within one or two cell divisions or can
manifest at later times after many cell divisions.28 Effects that occur

at later times have been termed delayed reproductive cell death and
may also be influenced by secreted factors that are induced in response to radiation.29
The ability to culture cells derived from both normal and
tumor tissues has allowed us to gain insight into how radiosensitivity varies between tissues by analyzing the shape of survival curves.
Survival curves of tumor cells often possess a shouldered region at
low doses that becomes shallower as the dose increases and eventually becomes exponential. A shoulder on a survival means that
these low doses of radiation are less efficient in cell killing, presumably because cells are efficient at repairing DNA strand breaks.13,14
Killing at low doses of radiation can be described in the form of a
linear quadratic equation: S = e−αD−βD2 (Fig. 13.9).30 In this equation, S is the fraction of cells that survive a dose (D) of radiation,
whereas α and β are constants. Cell killing by the linear and quadratic components are equal when αD = βD2 or D = α/β. Over
a larger dose range, the relationship between cell killing and dose
is more complex and is described by three different components:
an initial slope (D1), a final slope (Do), and the width of the shoulder (n, the extrapolation number) or Dq, the quasi-threshold dose
(Fig. 13.10). The extrapolation number, n, defines the place where
the shoulder intersects the ordinate when the dose is extrapolated
to zero, and the quasithreshold dose, Dq, defines the width of the
shoulder by cutting the dose axis when there is a survival fraction
of unity. In contrast to photons, the shoulder on the survival curve
disappears when cells are exposed to densely ionizing radiation
from particles, indicating that this form of radiation is highly effective at killing cells at both low and high doses.

In Vivo Survival Determination of Normal Tissue
Response to Radiation
Although much of our knowledge on the effects of radiation on
cell survival has come from cell culture studies, investigators
have also devised experimental approaches to assess the clonogenic survival of normal tissues. The earliest example came from
McCulloch and Till,31 who developed an assay to measure the
n

Dq
αD
βD
10–1

Densely
ionizing
(neutrons
or α-rays)

10–2

0

4

D0
Densely
ionizing
(neutrons
or α-rays)

Sparsely
ionizing
x-rays

α
β
10–3

D1

Survival

Survival

100

8

12

16

0

Dose (Gy)

4

Sparsely
ionizing
x-rays
8

12

D0
16

Dose (Gy)

Figure 13.9 An analysis of survival curves for mammalian cells exposed
to radiation by the linear quadratic model. The probability of hitting a critical
target is proportional to dose (aD): the alpha component. The probability
of hitting two critical targets will be the product of those probabilities;
therefore, it will be proportional to dose2 (βD2): the beta component.
The dose at which killing by both the alpha and beta components is
equal is defined as D = α/β. (From Hall EJ, Giaccia AJ. Radiobiology for
the Radiologist. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Williams; 2012, with
permission.)

Figure 13.10 An analysis of survival curves for mammalian cells
exposed to radiation by the multitarget model. This survival is described
by an initial slope (D1; dose to decreased survival to 37% on initial portion
of the curve), a final slope (D0; dose to decrease survival from starting
point to 37% of that point on straight line portion of the curve), an
extrapolation number (n; an estimate of the width of the shoulder), and
a quasithreshold (Dq; a type of threshold dose below which radiation has
no effect). (From Hall EJ, Giaccia AJ. Radiobiology for the Radiologist.
Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Williams; 2012, with permission.)

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

141

Chapter 13 Essentials of Radiation Therapy

G1

s

RE
PO
PU
L

N
IO
AT

0

2

4

&

6

8

10

12

14

Figure 13.11 Idealized survival curve of rodent cells exposed to
two fractions of x-rays. This figure illustrates how the time interval
between doses alters the sensitivity of cells when exposed to multiple
fractions. In this case, cells move from a resistant phase of the cell
cycle (late S phase) to a sensitive phase of the cell cycle (G2 phase).
This is known as reassortment. If longer periods of time occur between
fractions of radiation, cells will undergo division. This latter process is
called repopulation. SLD, sublethal damage. (From Hall EJ, Giaccia AJ.
Radiobiology for the Radiologist. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams &
Williams; 2012, with permission.)

or tumor growth delay found if a dose of radiation is split into two
fractions compared to the same dose administered in one fraction.
This repair is likely due to DNA double-strand break rejoining. Elkind et al. found that the survival of cells increased with an increase
in time between doses for up to a maximum of about 6 hours. This
finding is consistent with the clinical observation that a separation
of radiation treatments by 6 hours produces similar normal tissue
injury as a 24-hour separation. The shoulder of a survival curve is
strongly influenced by SDR: The broader the shoulder, the more
SDR and the smaller α/β ratio.
Similar to repair, reassortment and repopulation are also dependent on the interval of time between radiation fractions. If cells
are given short time intervals between doses, they can progress
from a resistant portion of the cell cycle (e.g., S phase) to a sensitive portion of the cell cycle (e.g., G2 phase). This transit between
resistant and sensitive phases of the cell cycle is termed reassortment. If irradiated cells are provided even longer intervals of time
between doses, the survival of the population of irradiated cells will
increase. This increase in split-dose survival after longer periods of
time is the result of cell division and has been termed repopulation.
Reassortment and repopulation appear to have more protracted kinetics in normal tissues than rapidly proliferating tumor cells, and
thereby enhance the tumor response to fractionated radiotherapy
compared to normal tissues.

Dose-Rate Effects
For sparsely ionizing radiation, dose rate plays a critical factor in
cell killing. Lowering the dose rate, and thereby increasing exposure time, reduces the effectiveness of killing by x-rays because of
increased SDR. A further reduction in dose rate results in more
SDR and reduces the shoulder of the survival curve. Thus, if one
plots the survival for individual doses in a multifraction experiment
so that there is sufficient time for SDR to occur, the resulting survival curve would have little shoulder and appear almost linear.39

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

0.01

SY
NC
HR
O
NY

Cell surviving fraction

PROMPT
REPAIR
OF SLD

T

Studies on split-dose repair (SDR) by Elkind et al.38 uncovered
three of what we now recognize as the most fundamental principles of fractionated radiotherapy: repair, reassortment, and repopulation (Fig. 13.11). (Reoxygenation, described in the following
paragraphs, is the fourth). SDR describes the increased survival

M

0.10

EN

The Fundamental Principles of Radiobiology

s

M
RT

FACTORS THAT AFFECT RADIATION
RESPONSE

G2

G1

SO

Assays have also been developed to assess the clonogenic survival
of tumor cells in animals. Perhaps the most relevant of these assays
is the tumor control dose 50% (TCD50) assay,34 in which the dose
of radiation needed to control the growth of 50% of the tumors is
determined in large cohorts of tumor-bearing animals. The TCD50
assay in animals most closely approximates the clinical situation
because tumors are irradiated in animals and the ability to kill
all viable tumor cells is assessed. Unlike assays in which tumor
cells are irradiated ex vivo, the TCD50 assay takes into account
the effects of the tumor microenvironment on tumor response. In
contrast to the TCD50 assay, the tumor growth delay assay reflects
the time after irradiation that a transplanted tumor reaches a fixed
multiple of the pretreatment volume compared to an unirradiated
control. This end point can be achieved by measuring tumor volume through the use of calipers or by a noninvasive measurement
of tumor volume using bioluminescent molecules such as luciferase or fluorescent proteins. In the latter approach, all the tumor
cells are stably transfected with a bioluminescent marker before
implantation, and tumor growth is measured by bioluminescent
activity.35 The advantage of this approach is that tumor cells can
be assessed even if they are orthotopically transplanted into their
tissue of origin. In another approach, tumors or cells are first irradiated in vivo, the tumor is excised and made into a single-cell
suspension, and these cells are then injected into a non–tumorbearing animal. If the cells are injected subcutaneously under the
skin, the end point is tumor formation.36 If the tumor cells are
injected in the tail vein of the mouse, the end point is colony formation in the lungs.37 The major advantage of these assays is that
the actual number of viable cells can be determined.

M

AS

In Vivo Determination of Tumor Response to
Radiation

G2

RE

clonogenic survival of bone marrow–derived cells in response to
radiation by injecting them into a recipient mouse and quantifying
the number of colonies that developed in the spleen. An analysis
of these in vivo spleen assays indicated that bone marrow cells are
highly radiosensitive (perhaps the most radiosensitive of all mammalian cells) in that their cell survival curve lacked a shoulder.
These experiments represent two important firsts in the radiation
sciences: They described the first development of an in vivo assay
to assess normal tissue survival to radiation, and they demonstrated
the first existence of normal tissue stem cells. Soon after, Withers
and colleagues32 developed an assay to assess the survival of skin
stem cells, and Withers and Elkind33 developed an assay to quantify the viability of small intestinal clonogens.
Because these ingenious approaches cannot be applied to all
normal tissues, loss of tissue function instead of clonogenic survival
has been used as an end point to assess radiation effects. Effects
on tissue function can be grouped into the acute or late variety.
Desquamation of skin by radiation is an example of an acute loss
of function, whereas loss of spinal cord function is an example of
a late functional effect. Acutely sensitive tissues such as skin, bone
marrow, and intestinal mucosa possess a significant component of
tissue cell division, whereas delayed sensitive tissues, such as spinal
cord, breast, and bone, do not possess a significant amount of cell
division or turnover and manifest radiation effects at later times.

142

Cancer Therapeutics

In some cell types, there is a threshold to the lowering of dose
rate, and in fact, one paradoxically finds an increase, instead of a
decrease, in cell killing. This increase in cell killing under these
conditions of protracted dose rate is due to the accumulation of
cells in a radiosensitive portion of the cell cycle. In summary, the
magnitude of the dose rate effect varies between cell types because
of SDR, the redistribution of cells through the cell cycle, and the
time for cell division to occur.

Cell Cycle
The phase of the cell cycle at the time of radiation influences the
cell’s inherent sensitivity to radiation. Cells synchronized in late
G1/early S and G2/M phases are most sensitive, whereas cells
in G1 and mid to late S phase are more resistant to radiation.1
These differences in sensitivity during the cell cycle are exploited
by the concept of reassortment during fractioned radiotherapy
as well by the use of chemotherapeutic agents, which reassort
cells into more sensitive phases of the cell cycle in combination
with radiation.

Tumor Oxygenation
The major microenvironmental influence on tumor response to
radiation is molecular oxygen.40 Decreased levels of oxygen (hypoxia) in tissue culture result in decreased killing after radiation,
which can be expressed as an oxygen enhancement ratio (OER).
Operationally, OER is defined as the ratio of doses to give the same
killing under hypoxic and normoxic conditions. At high doses of
radiation, the OER is approximately 3, whereas at low doses, it is
closer to 2.41 Oxygen must be present within 10 μs of irradiation to
achieve its radiosensitizing effect. Under hypoxic conditions, damage to DNA can be repaired more readily than under oxic conditions, where damage to DNA is “fixed” because of the interaction
of oxygen with free radicals generated by radiation. These changes
in radiation sensitivity are detectable at oxygen ranges below 30
mm Hg. Most tumor cells exhibit a survival difference halfway between fully aerobic and fully anoxic cells when exposed to a partial
pressure of oxygen between 3 and 10 mm Hg.1 The presence of
hypoxia has greater significance for single-dose fractions used in
the treatment of certain primary tumors and metastases and is less
important for fractionated radiotherapy, where reoxygenation occurs between fractions. Furthermore, most hypoxic cells are not
actively undergoing cell division, thus impeding the efficacy of
conventional chemotherapeutic agents that are targeted to actively
dividing cells.
Although normal tissue and tumors vary in their oxygen concentrations, only tumors possess levels of oxygen low enough to influence the effectiveness of radiation killing. Although the variations
in normal tissue oxygenation are in large part due to physiology
governing acute changes in oxygen consumption, the variations in
tumor oxygen can be directly attributed to abnormal vasculature
that results in a more chronic condition. Thomlinson and Gray42
observed that variations in tumor oxygen occur because there is
insufficient vasculature to provide oxygen to all tumor cells. They
hypothesized that oxygen is unable to reach tumor cells beyond
10 to 12 cell diameters from the lumen of a tumor blood vessel
because of metabolic consumption by respiring tumor cells. This
form of hypoxia caused by metabolic consumption of oxygen has
been termed chronic or diffusion-mediated hypoxia. In contrast,
changes in blood flow due either to interstitial pressure changes
in tumor blood vessels that lack a smooth muscle component or
red blood cell fluxes can cause transient occlusion of blood vessels resulting in acute or transient hypoxia. Chronically, hypoxic
cells will only become reoxygenated when their distance from the
lumen of a blood vessel decreases, such as during fractionated radiotherapy when tumor cords shrink. In contrast, tumor cells that
are acutely hypoxic because of changes in blood flow or interstitial
pressure often cycle in an unpredictable manner between oxic and
hypoxic states as blood flow changes.

Based on studies demonstrating that hypoxia can alter radiation sensitivity and decrease tumor control by radiotherapy,
strategies have been developed to increase tumor oxygenation.
Most importantly, it appears that tumor oxygen levels increase
during a course of fractionated radiation. This may be one of the
most important benefits of fractionated radiation and is termed
reoxygenation (the fourth of the four Rs of radiobiology). Tumor
reoxygenation during a course of fractionated radiation may also
offer an explanation for the general lack of clinical efficacy of
hypoxic cell sensitizers despite the clear evidence that hypoxia
causes radioresistance.
Aside from using fractionated radiation, the most direct approach to increasing tumor oxygenation is to expose patients
receiving radiotherapy to hyperbaric oxygen therapy. The underlying concept is that increasing the amount of oxygen in the bloodstream should result in more oxygen being available for diffusion
to the hypoxic regions of tumors. Experimentally, hyperbaric
oxygen therapy increases the sensitivity of transplanted tumors to
radiation. The results of clinical studies with hyperbaric oxygen
therapy, when combined with radiotherapy, showed improvement
for two sites—head and neck cancers, and cervix cancers—but
failed to show an improvement with other sites, thus calling into
question its general usefulness in radiotherapy.43 In a related approach, erythropoietin (EPO), a hormone released by the kidney
that increases red blood cell production, should also increase
tumor oxygenation by increasing the delivery of hemoglobinbound oxygen molecules. EPO has been effective at correcting
anemia, but has not been successful in combination with radiation to control head and neck cancer and may, in fact, stimulate
tumor growth.44, 45
Another strategy to increase tumor oxygenation has been the
combined use of nicotinamide, which increases tissue perfusion
and carbogen (95% O2 and 5% CO2) breathing (accelerated radiotherapy with carbogen and nicotinamide [ARCON] therapy).
Recently, a randomized phase III clinical trial demonstrated
improved regional but not local tumor control in larynx cancer
patients treated with nicotinamide, carbogen, and radiation versus radiation alone.46 Biologics such as antivascular endothelial
growth factor (anti-VEGF) therapy have also been demonstrated
to increase tumor oxygenation.47 Anti-VEGF therapy may increase tumor oxygenation by eliminating abnormal vessels that
are inadequate in perfusing tumor cells—the so-called vascular
normalization hypothesis. Although there is solid experimental
evidence to support this hypothesis, there appears to be only a
short window of time in which it could be effectively combined
with radiotherapy.
Because the presence of hypoxia has both prognostic and potential therapeutic implications, a substantial effort has been invested
in trying to image hypoxia.48 The goal of using imaging to “paint”
radiation doses to different regions of tumors, although technically possible (as described in the next section, Radiation Physics),
faces the problem that changes in oxygenation are dynamic.49 In
the future, hypoxia-directed treatment may evolve from the use
of hypoxic cell cytotoxins to targeted drugs that exploit cellular
signaling changes induced by hypoxia such as hypoxia-inducible
factor 1α (HIF-1α). However, despite the strong rationale supporting their use, at this time, there are no agents used in the clinic
that target hypoxia.

Immune Response
The abscopal effects of radiation (i.e., tumor cell killing outside
of the radiation field) have been attributed to the activation of
antigen and cytokine release by radiation, which subsequently
activates a systemic immune response against tumor cells.50,51
This response begins with the transfer of tumor cell antigens to
dendritic cells and, subsequently, the activation of tumor-specific
T cells and immunogenic tumor cell death. It is likely that radiation dose and fractionation influence the optimal immune

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 13 Essentials of Radiation Therapy

DRUGS THAT AFFECT RADIATION
SENSITIVITY
For over 30 years now, chemotherapy and radiotherapy have been
administered concurrently. In order to maximize the efficacy of radiochemotherapy, it is necessary to understand the biologic mechanisms underlying radiosensitization by chemotherapeutic agents.
The several classes of standard chemotherapeutic agents as well
as novel molecularly targeted agents that possess radiosensitizing
properties will be discussed in this section.

Antimetabolites
5-fluorouracil is among the most commonly used chemotherapeutic radiation sensitizers. Given in combination with radiation, it
has led to clinical improvements in a variety of cancers, including
those of the head and neck, the esophagus, the stomach, the pancreas, the rectum, the anus, and the cervix. The combination of
5-fluorouracil with radiation is now a standard therapy for cancers
of the stomach (adjuvant), the pancreas (unresectable), and the
rectum. For other cancers such as head and neck, esophagus, or
anal, 5-fluorouracil and radiation are combined with cisplatin or
mitomycin C, respectively. Being an analog of uracil, 5-flourouracil is misincorporated into RNA and DNA. However, the ability
of 5-fluorouracil to radiosensitize is related to its ability to inhibit
thymidylate synthase, which leads to the depletion of thymidine
triphosphate (dTTP) and the inhibition of DNA synthesis. This
slowed, inappropriate progression through S phase in response
to 5-fluorouracil is thought to be the mechanism underlying radiosensitization.52 Similar to 5-fluorouracil, the oral thymidylate
synthase inhibitor, capecitabine, is also being increasingly used in
combination with radiation.
Gemcitabine (2′, 2′-deoxyfluorocytdine [dFdCyd]) is another
potent antimetabolite radiosensitizer. Preclinical studies have
demonstrated that radiosensitization by gemcitabine involves the
depletion of deoxyadenosine triphosphate (dATP) (related to the
ability of gemcitabine diphosphate (dFdCDP) to inhibit ribonucleotide reductase) as well as the redistribution of cells into the
early S phase of the cell cycle.53 The combination of gemcitabine
with radiation in clinical trials has suggested improved clinical
outcomes for patients with cancers of the lung, pancreas, and
bladder. Gemcitabine-based chemoradiation has developed into
a standard therapy for locally advanced pancreatic cancer. However, in some clinical trials, such as those in lung and head and
neck cancers, the combination of gemcitabine with radiation has
led to increased mucositis and esophagitis.54 Thus, it should be
emphasized that in the presence of gemcitabine, radiation fields
must be defined with great caution. Such is the case with pancreatic cancer, where the combination of full-dose gemcitabine
with radiation to the gross tumor can be safely administered if
clinically uninvolved lymph nodes are excluded.55 Conversely,
the inclusion of the regional lymphatics in the treatment field in
combination with full-dose gemcitabine produces unacceptable
toxicities.56

Platinums and Temozolomide
Cisplatin is likely the most commonly used chemotherapeutic
agent in combination with radiation. Although cisplatin was the
prototype for several other platinum analogs, carboplatin is also
frequently used in combination with radiation. Cisplatin, in combination with radiation, and sometimes in conjunction with a second chemotherapeutic agent, is indicated for cancers of the head
and neck, esophagus (with 5-fluorouracil), the lung, the cervix,
and the anus. Radiosensitization by cisplatin is related to its ability
to cause inter- and intra-strand DNA cross-links. Removal of these
cross-links during the repair process results in DNA strand breaks.
Although there are multiple theories to explain the mechanism(s)
of radiosensitization by cisplatin, two plausible explanations are
that cisplatin inhibits the repair (both homologous and nonhomologous) of radiation-induced DNA double-strand breaks and/
or increases the number of lethal radiation-induced double-strand
breaks.57
Temozolomide in combination with radiation is standard therapy for glioblastoma. Temozolomide is an alkylating agent, which
forms methyl adducts at the O6 position of guanine (as well as at
N7 and N3-guanine) that are subsequently improperly repaired by
the mismatch repair pathway. Radiosensitization by temozolomide
involves the inhibition of DNA repair and/or an increase in radiation-induced DNA double-strand breaks due to radiation-induced
single-strand breaks in proximity to O6 methyl adducts. Like cisplatin, temozolomide-mediated radiosensitization does not seem
to require cell cycle redistribution.

Taxanes
The taxanes, paclitaxel and docetaxel, act to stabilize microtubules
resulting in the accumulation of cells in G2/M, the most radiationsensitive phase of the cell cycle. The radiosensitizing properties of
the taxanes are thought to be attributable to the redistribution of
cells into G2/M. Paclitaxel, in combination with radiation (and
carboplatin), has demonstrated a clinical benefit in the treatment
of resectable lung carcinoma.58

Molecularly Targeted Agents
Molecularly targeted agents are especially appealing in the context of radiosensitization because they are generally less toxic
than standard chemotherapeutic agents and need to be given in
multimodality regimens (given their often inadequate efficacy as
single agents). The EGFR has been intensely pursued as a target; both antibody and small molecule EGFR inhibitors, such
as cetuximab and erlotinib, respectively, have been developed.
The head and neck seem to be the most promising tumor sites
for the combination of EGFR inhibitors with radiation therapy.
Preclinical data have demonstrated that the schedule of administration of EGFR inhibitors with radiation is important; EGFR
inhibition before chemoradiation may produce antagonism.59
In a randomized phase III trial, cetuximab plus radiation produced a significant survival advantage over radiation alone in
patients with locally advanced head and neck cancer.60 In a subsequent trial, however, cetuximab in combination with concurrent, cisplatin-based chemoradiation failed to produce a survival
benefit in head and neck cancer patients.61 The combination of
EGFR inhibitor with cisplatin-radiation requires further preclinical investigation.
Although EGFR inhibition, concurrent with radiation, is by far
the best established combination of a molecularly targeted agent
with radiation, other exciting molecularly targeted agents are
being developed as radiation sensitizers. Targeting DNA damage
response pathways is one approach to radiosensitization. Recently,
agents that abrogate radiation-induced cell cycle checkpoints, such
as Wee1 and Chk1 inhibitors, have been shown to radiosensitize

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

response with higher doses and fewer fractions of radiation than
those used in conventional fractionation schemes appearing superior in experimental models. Unfortunately, abscopal effects
are uncommon because immune system evasion is an inherent
characteristic of cancer cells that often dominates, even in the
presence of a radiation-induced immune response. Strategies to
amplify radiation-induced immune responses, and thus to overcome tumor cell evasion of the immune system, are under investigation. The combination of radiation with immune checkpoint
modulators such as ipilimumab, an antibody against cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4), have shown promising, albeit
anecdotal, clinical effects.

143

144

Cancer Therapeutics

tumor cells and are currently in clinical development in combination with chemotherapy, with clinical trials planned in combination with radiation.62,63 In addition, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase
(PARP) inhibitors have been demonstrated to preclinically induce
radiosensitization, and several clinical trials combining PARP
inhibitors with radiation therapy are underway.64

Other Agents
Although the most common clinically used agents in combination with radiation have been shown to produce significant clinical
benefit, as described previously, other agents with different mechanisms of action have been used as radiation sensitizers as well
as radiation protectors. The vinca alkaloids, such as vincristine,
possess radiosensitizing properties due to their ability to block
mitotic spindle assembly and, thus, arrest cells in M phase. Although vincristine is used in combination with radiation to treat
medulloblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and brain stem glioma,
its use is principally based on its lack of myelosuppressive side effects, which are dose limiting for radiation in these types of tumors,
rather than its potential radiosensitizing properties.
Also worth mention in a discussion of modulators of radiation
sensitivity are agents designed to radioprotect normal tissues. One
such type of drug, amifostine, is a free radical scavenger with some
selectivity toward normal tissues that express more alkaline phosphatase than tumor cells, the enzyme of which converts amifostine
to a free thiol metabolite. Clinical trials in head and neck as well
as lung cancers have shown a reduction in radiation-related toxicities such as xerostomia, mucositis, esophagitis, and pneumonitis,
respectively.65,66 However, further clinical investigations are necessary to conclusively demonstrate a lack of tumor protection and
safety in combination with chemoradiotherapy regimens.

RADIATION PHYSICS
Physics of Photon Interactions
Tumors requiring radiation can be found at depths ranging from
zero to 10s of centimeters below the skin. The goal of treatment
is to deliver sufficient ionizing radiation to the tumor site, which
can result in an absorbed dose. This involves both the availability
of treatment beams and delivery techniques, and the methods to
plan the treatments and ensure their safe delivery. This section will
establish the general physical basis for the use of ionizing radiation
in the treatment of tumors, briefly describe some of the treatment
equipment, indicate physical qualities of the treatment beams
themselves, and summarize the treatment planning process.
Those who desire more in-depth details are referred to textbooks
and other resources dedicated to medical physics and the technologic aspects of radiation oncology.67 Most patients who are treated
with radiation receive high-energy, external-beam photon therapy.
Here, external indicates that the treatment beam is generated and
delivered from outside of the body. High-energy (6 to 20 MV) photon beams (electromagnetic radiation) penetrate tissue, enabling
the treatment of deep-seated tumors. Modern equipment generates these beams with sufficient fluence to ensure delivery of therapeutic fractions of dose in short treatment sessions. Other types of
particles and beams also exist for use in treating tumors both externally and internally. They are mentioned briefly later. However,
as external photon beams dominate the practice (and as common
basic physics principles related to delivered dose exist among the
modalities), the focus here will be on photon beam generation and
interactions in tissue.
As mentioned earlier, ionizing radiation kills cells via both
direct and indirect mechanisms. Radiation therapy aims to instigate those ionizations and events in the tumor cells. Photons are
massless, uncharged packets of energy that primarily interact with

matter via electromagnetic processes. As a consequence of those
interactions, an incident photon can become either entirely absorbed (giving up its energy to the ejection of an atomic electron
[photoelectric effect]), or create an energetic electron-positron
pair (pair production), or scatter off an electron with a reduction
in energy and a change in direction and subsequent transfer of
parts of its energy to the free electron (Compton scattering). The
secondary electrons generated as a consequence of these interactions have residual energy, mass, and, most importantly, electric
charge. They slow down in matter through multiple interactions
with (primarily) the electrons of atoms, leading to excitation and
ionization of those atoms. These ionizations (hence the term ionizing radiation) lead to a local absorption of energy (i.e., dose =
energy absorbed per unit mass) and the direct and indirect cell
killing effects necessary to treat tumors.
Thus, the use of external photon beams for cancer therapy involves a two-step process: interaction (scattering) of the photons,
with subsequent dose deposition via the secondary electrons. The
probability of photon interactions is energy dependent. Photoelectric interactions dominate at lower photon energies. Whereas these
beams are ideal for diagnostic procedures (for their preferential
absorption by tissues of differing atomic number, leading to good
subject contrast), they are attenuated too quickly in tissues to supply enough interactions to be useful for therapy for any but the
most superficial tumors. Pair production interactions dominate at
higher photon energies; however, the probability of interacting in
tissues for those high-energy photons is so low as to preclude them
from general use as well. In the 10s to 100s of kiloelectron volt
(keV) to the few megaelectron volt (MeV) photon energy range,
Compton scattering dominates. As will be shown, these beams
have sufficient penetration and can be generated with sufficient
intensity to be useful for tumor treatments, especially when combined in treatment plans that comprise multiple beams entering
the patient from different directions but overlapping at the tumor.
It is useful to point out physical scales of reference for external
photon beam therapy. A typical megavoltage photon beam may
have an average photon energy near 2 MeV. Those photons primarily undergo Compton scattering with a mean free path in tissue
of approximately 20 cm. An average Compton interaction results
in a secondary electron with a mean energy near 0.5 MeV (and a
Compton scattered photon near 1.5 MeV, which likely escapes or
scatters elsewhere in the patient). A typical secondary electron of
approximately 0.5 MeV will cause excitations and ionizations of
atoms as it dissipates its energy over a path length of approximately
2 mm. This could be expected to lead to approximately 10,000
ionizations, or about 5 ionizations per micron of tissue. As can be
seen, therapeutic damage to the DNA of cancer cells (2 nm; see
Fig. 13.2) will require very many Compton scatterings with statistical interaction among the ionizations resulting from the slowing
down of the secondary electrons.

Photon Beam Generation and Treatment
Delivery
As previously mentioned, effective external-beam photon treatments require higher energy beams capable of reaching deepseated tumors with sufficient fluence to make it likely that the
dose deposition will kill the tumor cells. To spare normal tissues
and maximize targeting, beams are arranged to enter the patient
from several directions and to intersect at the center of the tumor
(treatment isocenter). Although machines containing collimated
beams from high-intensity radioactive sources (primarily cobalt 60
[60Co]) are still in use, today’s modern treatment machine accelerates electrons to high (MeV) energy and impinges them onto
an x-ray production target, leading to the generation of intense
beams of Bremsstrahlung x-rays. A typical photon beam treatment
machine68,69 (Fig. 13.12) consists of a high-energy (6 to 20 MeV)
linear electron accelerator, electromagnetic beam steering and

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Figure 13.12 A shadow view of a C-arm linear accelerator. The electron
beam (originating at upper right) is accelerated through a linear accelerator
wave guide, selected for correct energy in a bending magnet, and then
impinges on an x-ray production target. The x-ray beam (originating at
target upper left) is flattened and collimated before leaving the treatment
head. Also illustrated (downstream from the beam) is an electric portal
imager that is used to measure (image) the beam exiting a patient. (From
Varian Medical Systems, Palo Alto, CA, with permission.)

monitoring systems, x-ray generation targets, high-density treatment field-shaping devices (collimators), and up to a ton of radiation shielding on a mechanical C-arm gantry that can rotate
precisely around a treatment couch (Fig. 13.13). These treatmentdelivery machines routinely maintain mechanical isocenters for
patient treatments to within a sphere of 1 mm radius. The development of stereotactic radiotherapy, which will be described in the
section titled Clinical Application of Types of Radiation, depends
on this level of machine precision.
X-ray production by monoenergetic high-energy electrons results in an x-ray (photon) beam that contains a continuous spectrum of energies with maximum photon energy near that of the
incident electron beam. Lower energy photons appear with a much
greater probability than do the highest energy ones, but they also
become preferentially filtered out of the beam through the absorption in the target and the attenuation in the flattening filter.
This generally results in a treatment beam energy spectrum with a
mean photon energy of approximately one-third of the initial electron beam energy. In this energy range, the resulting photon beam
exits the production target with a narrow angular spread focused
primarily in the forward direction. These forward-peaked intensity
distributions generally need to be modulated (flattened) to produce
a large (up to 40 cm diameter at the patient) photon beam with
uniform intensity across the beam. All modern treatment units take
advantage of extensive computer control, monitoring, and feedback
to produce highly stable and reproducible treatment beams.
The resulting photon beam requires beam shaping for conformal dose delivery. Some combination of primary, high-density
field blocks (collimators) together with additional edge blocks
generally provide the required shaping and shielding. Modern machines use computer-controlled multileaf collimators (Fig. 13.14)

145

Figure 13.13 Model in treatment position on the patient support
table. The treatment delivery head on the gantry’s C-arm rotates about
the patient, enabling the delivery of beams throughout 360 degrees of
rotation. (From Varian Medical Systems, Palo Alto, CA, with permission.)

Figure 13.14 Multileaf collimator shaping of an x-ray treatment beam
from a linear accelerator. Inset shows a view of the multileaf collimator.
(From Varian Medical Systems, Palo Alto, CA, with permission.)

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Chapter 13 Essentials of Radiation Therapy

146

Cancer Therapeutics

A

B

Figure 13.15 (A) A shadow view of linear accelerator, x-ray beam production system, and x-ray fan beam for helical tomotherapy treatment delivery. The
beam production system rotates within its enclosed gantry. (B) The model patient on treatment table slides into the treatment unit. During treatment,
the table moves as the collimated fan beam rotates about the patient, creating a modulated helical dose delivery pattern. (From TomoTherapy, Inc.,
Madison, WI, with permission.)

for the edge sculpting subsequent to setting the primary collimators for maximal shielding. This computer control provides high
precision and reproducibility in the definition of field edges. Additionally, automation allows for a precise reshaping of the treatment
beam for each angle of incidence, allowing not only conformation
of irradiation to target volumes, but also modulation of the beam
intensity patterns across the field (intensity-modulated radiation
therapy [IMRT]).
Variations on the standard linear accelerator (linac) plus
C-arm scenario that are being used for external-beam radiation
treatments throughout the body include helical tomotherapy
and nonisocentric miniature linac robotic delivery systems.70 In
helical tomotherapy, the accelerator, photon-production target,
and collimation system are mounted on a ring gantry (similar to
those found on diagnostic computed tomography [CT] scanners)
(Fig. 13.15). It produces a fan beam of photons, and the intensity
of each part of the fan being modulated by a binary collimator.
As the gantry rotates, the patient simultaneously slides through
the bore of the machine (again analogous to modern x-ray/CT
imagers), which allows for the continuous delivery of intensitymodulated radiation in a helical pattern from all angles around
a patient. Another delivery system uses an industrial robot to
hold a miniature accelerator plus photon beam-production system (Fig. 13.16). The bulk of the system is reduced by keeping
the field sizes small (spotlike). However, computer control of the
robot provides flexibility in irradiating tumors from nearly any
position external to the patient. The same control allows for the
selection and use of many differing beam angles to build up the
dose at the tumor location.
To take advantage of the precision of modern beam delivery, it
is crucial to localize the patient’s tumor and normal tissue.71 This
process can be divided into patient immobilization (i.e., limiting the motion of the patient) and localization (i.e., knowing the
tumor and normal tissue location precisely in space). Although
these concepts of immobilization and localization are related,
they are not identical. Patients can be held reasonably comfortable
in their treatment pose with the aid of foam molds and meshes
(i.e., immobilization devices). Traditionally, localization has been
achieved by indexing the immobilization device to the computercontrolled treatment couch and by using low-power laser beams
aligned to skin marks. These techniques make it possible to
reproducibly couple the surface of each patient with the treatment
machine isocenter.

However, what is truly needed is to localize the tumor and
normal tissues. The development of in-room, online x-ray, ultrasound, and infrared imaging equipment can now be used to ensure that the intended portions of each patient’s internal anatomy
are correctly positioned at the time of treatment. In particular, the
development of rugged, low-profile, active matrix, flat-panel imaging devices, either attached to the treatment gantry or placed in
the vicinity of the treatment couch, together with diagnostic x-ray
generators or the patient treatment beam (see Fig. 13.13), allows
the digital capture of projection x-ray images of patient anatomy
with respect to the isocenter and treatment field borders. These
digitized electronic images are immediately available for analysis.
Software tools allow for a comparison to reference images and the
generation of correction coordinates, which are in turn available
for downloading to the treatment couch for automated fine adjustment of the patient’s treatment position. Other precise localization systems rely on the identification of the positions of small,
implanted radiopaque markers or other types of smart positionreporting devices. Careful use of these image-guided radiation

Figure 13.16 A miniature accelerator plus x-ray production system on
a robotic delivery arm. Both the treatment table and the treatment head
is set by a computer for multiple arbitrary angles of incidence. (From
Accuray, Sunnyvale, CA, with permission.)

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Treatment Beam Characteristics and
Dose-Calculation Algorithms
Beyond a basic understanding of the interactions of ionizing radiation with matter lies the requirement of being able to characterize
the treatment beams for purposes of planning and verifying treatments. By virtue of a few underlying principles, this generally can
be accomplished via a two-step process of absolute calibration of
the dose at some reference point in a phantom (i.e., measurement
media representative of a patient’s tissues), with relative scaling of
dose values in other parts of the beam or phantom with respect to
that point.
As mentioned earlier, the predominant mode of interaction
for therapeutic energy photon beams in tissuelike materials is
through Compton scattering. The probability of Compton scattering events is primarily proportional to the relative electron density
of the media with which they interact. Because many body tissues
are waterlike in composition, it has been possible to make photon
beam dosimetric measurements in phantoms consisting mostly of
water (water tanks) or tissue-equivalent plastic and to then scale
the interactions via relative electron density values (for example, as
can be derived from computed x-ray/CT) to other waterlike materials. Thus, the relative fluence of photons in a therapeutic treatment beam is attenuated as it passes through a phantom, primarily
via Compton scattering.
It was stated earlier that the photon beam is generated at a
small region in the head of the machine. That fluence of photons
spreads out through the collimating system before reaching the
patient. Thus, without any interactions (e.g., if the beam were in a
vacuum), the number of photons crossing any plane perpendicular to the beam direction would remain constant. However, the
cross-sectional area of the plane gets larger the farther it is located
from the source point. In fact, both the width and length of the
cross-sectional area increase in proportion to the distance from the
source, and thus the area increases in proportion to the square of
the distance. This means that the primary photon fluence per unit
area in a plane perpendicular to the beam direction of a pointlike
source also decreases as one over the square of the distance, the socalled 1/r2 reduction in fluence as a function of distance, r, from
the source.
Thus, we have two processes, attenuation and 1/r2 reduction,
which reduce the photon fluence from an external therapeutic
beam as a function of depth in a patient. There is also a process
that can increase the photon fluence at a point downstream. Recall
that Compton scattering interactions lead not only to secondary
electrons (which are responsible for deposition of dose), but also to
Compton scattered photons. These photons are scattered from the
interaction sites in multiple, predominantly forward-looking directions. Thus, Compton-scattered photons originating from many
other places can add to the photon fluence at another point. As
the irradiated area (field size) increases, the amount of scattered
radiation also increases.

As mentioned earlier, dose deposition is a two-step process of
photon interaction (proportional to the local fluence of photons)
and energy transfer to the medium via the slowing down of secondary electrons. Thus, the point where a photon interacts is not
the place where the dose is actually deposited, which happens
over the track of the secondary electron. Dose has a very strict
definition of energy absorbed per unit mass (i.e., due to the slowing down charged particles) and should be distinguished from the
energy released at a point, defined as kerma (e.g., energy transfer
from the scattering incident photon). Thus, although the photon
beam fluence will always be greatest at the entrance to a patient
or phantom, the actual absorbed dose for a megavoltage photon
beam builds up over the first couple of centimeters, reaching a
maximum (d-max) at a depth corresponding to the range of the
higher energy Compton electrons set in motion. This turns out
to be a second desirable characteristic of these beams (beyond
their ability to treat deep-seated lesions), because the dose to the
skin (a primary dose-limiting structure in earlier times) is greatly
reduced.
The relative distributions of dose, normalized to an absolute
dose measurement (using a small thimblelike air ionization chamber at a standard depth and for a standard field size according to
nationally and internationally accepted protocols), are the major
inputs into treatment-planning systems. The major features of
these distributions are (1) the initial dose buildup up to a depth
of d-max, with a more gradual drop off in dose as a function of
depth into the phantom due to the attenuation and 1/r2 factors at
deeper depths (relative depth dose), and (2) the shape of the dose
in the plane perpendicular to the direction of the beams; both as
a function of field size. Central axis depth dose curves for typical
external photon beams are shown in Figure 13.17 for two beam
energies and for both a large and smaller field size. Notice both the
expected increase in penetration with increasing beam energy and
the increase in dose at a particular depth with increasing field size;
the latter effect due to increased numbers of secondary Comptonscattered photons for larger irradiated areas. The change in dose
perpendicular to the central axis is less remarkable, because the
beams are designed to be uniform across a field as a function of
depth.
It is useful to also point out the depth dose characteristics
of clinical external treatment beams produced using ionizing

Photon (6 MV 5 x 5 FS)
Photon (15 MV 5 x 5 FS)

100

Photon (6 MV 30 x 30 FS)
Photon (15 MV 30 x 30 FS)

80
% Dose

therapy (IGRT) systems71, 72 can result in the repeated reducibility
of patient position to within a few millimeters over a 5- to 8-week
course of treatment.
The final part of external-beam patient treatment is dose delivery. All modern treatment units have computer monitoring (and
often control) of all mechanical and dose-delivery components.
Treatment-planning information (treatment machine parameters,
treatment field configurations, dose per treatment field segment) is
downloaded to a work station at the treatment unit that first assists
with and then records treatment. This information, together with
the readbacks from the treatment machine, are used to reproducibly set up and then verify each patient’s treatment parameters,
which prevents many of the variations that used to occur when all
treatment was performed simply by following instructions written
in a treatment chart.

60

40

20

0
0

5

10

15

20

25

30

Depth
Figure 13.17 Sample depth-dose curves (change in delivered dose as a
function of depth) along the central axis of some typical photon treatment
beams for low (6 MV) and intermediate (15 MV) energy beams, and large
(30 × 30 cm2) and smaller (5 × 5 cm2) field sizes (FS).

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

147

Chapter 13 Essentials of Radiation Therapy

148

Cancer Therapeutics

build a dose distribution by summing the calculated paths of thousands of photons and scattered electrons. This approach is more
accurate than beam-fitting algorithms in regions of differing tissue
densities, such as the lung, and therefore, will ultimately replace
the current generation of treatment-planning systems, particularly
for complex conditions. However, the time to perform these calculations is still prohibitive for a clinic, and it is anticipated that
Monte Carlo calculations will be introduced over a period of years
by balancing the need for accuracy in a particular clinical situation
with the need to initiate patient treatment.

Photons (6 MV)
Electrons (6 MeV)

100

Electrons (20 MeV)
Photons (155 MeV)

Dose (%)

80

60

40

TREATMENT PLANNING

20

0
0

5

10

15

20

25

30

Depth (cm)
Figure 13.18 Sample depth-dose curves along the central axis of some
typical charged particle treatment beams compared with that of a 6-MV
proton beam. The spread out Bragg peak at the end of the 155-MeV
proton beam (thick pink curve) is a composite dose deposition pattern
from the addition of the multiple range-shifted proton curves (thinner
pink curves).

radiations other than photons, primarily through the direct use of
charged particles. Those beams (Fig. 13.18) illustrate interesting
characteristics, which, when added to the options available for
treatment planning (or used by themselves), can produce advantageous results. Relative to the photon beam, the direct use of electron beams leads to deposition of dose over a more localized range,
but at the expense of a relative lack of penetration. Thus, electron
beams are most widely used for treating, or boosting the treatment
of, more superficial tumors and regions (see the section titled
Clinical Application of Types of Radiation). The heavier charged
particle beams (protons and carbon ions) appear to exhibit even
more interesting depth-dose characteristics, with the advantage of
both (when necessary) being highly penetrating and also lacking a
significant dose beyond a certain depth (a depth that can be controlled and purposefully placed, for example, at the distal edge of
a target volume).
The results of measurements such as these have been modeled
so as to develop dose-calculation algorithms used in treatmentplanning systems. These models all use measured beam data to
set or adjust parameters used by those algorithms in their dosedistribution computations. Because most of the input data used
for beam fitting come from measurements in water phantoms
(or waterlike plastic phantoms), patient-specific adjustments are
needed for the water phantom data to account for both geometry and tissue properties. It is the task of the dose-calculation
algorithms to take those changes into account. The accuracy and
precision actually realized for all dose-calculation algorithms
generally need to be traded off against the time required to complete the calculation. Although the availability of ever more
powerful computers has made calculation time less of a concern
for broad, open-beam treatment planning, issues still remain for
more specialized planning exercises that use many small beams
or parts of beams such as IMRT (discussed later). Typically, relative dose distributions can be computed within patients on the
scale of a few millimeters with a precision of better than a few
percentage points.
An important area of research is the development of treatmentplanning systems that calculate dose based on the principles of
how radiation interacts with tissues, rather than simply by fitting
data. These approaches use Monte Carlo techniques,71,73 which

As discussed in the previous section, single-treatment beams usually deposit more of the dose closer to where they enter the patient than they do at depths corresponding to where a deep-seated
tumor might be located. The use of multiple beams entering the
patient from different directions that overlap at the target produces
more dose per unit volume throughout the tumor volume than is
received by normal tissues. In fact, as noted earlier, the treatmentdelivery machines are designed to make this easy to accomplish.
Planning patient treatments under these circumstances should be
a somewhat trivial matter of first selecting a sufficient number of
beam angles to realize the desired buildup of the dose in the overlap region relative to the doses in the upstream parts of each beam,
and then second, designing beam apertures that shape the edges
of the beams to match the target. However, dose-limiting normal
tissues often also lie in the paths of one or more of the beams.
These normal tissues are often more sensitive to radiation damage
than the tumor, and regardless, it is best practice to minimize the
dose in any case as a general principle. Computerized treatmentplanning systems function to develop patient-specific anatomic or
geometric models and then use these models together with the
beam-specific dose deposition properties (derived from phantom
measurements, as previously described) to select beam angles,
shapes, and intensities that meet an overall prescribed objective.
That is, modern radiation oncology dose prescriptions contain
both tumor and normal tissue objectives, and the modern computerized treatment-planning systems make it possible to design
treatments that meet these objectives.
The development and use of three-dimensional (3D) models
of each patient’s anatomy, treatment geometry, and dose distribution led to a paradigm shift in radiation therapy treatment planning.
Computerized radiation treatment planning began in the 1980s as
a mainly x-ray/CT–based reconstruction of 3D geometries from information manually contoured on multiple two-dimensional (2D)
transverse CT images. Today, these models often incorporate imaging data from multiple sources. Geometrically accurate anatomic
information from an x-ray/CT scan still anchors these studies (as
well as provides tissue density information necessary for dose calculations). However, it is now quite common to also register the
CT data set with other studies such as magnetic resonance imaging
(MRI), which may add anatomic detail for soft tissues, or functional
MRI or positron emission tomography (PET) studies,74,75 which provide physiologic or molecular information about tumors and normal
tissues. Once registered with each other, the unique or complementary information from each data set can be fused for inspection and
incorporated into the design of each patient’s target and normal tissue volumes (Fig. 13.19). Beyond the ability to more fully define the
extent of the primary target volume (for instance, as the encompassing envelope of disease appreciated on all the imaging studies) lies
the ability to define subvolumes of the tumor volume that might be
appropriate for simultaneous treatment to higher dose. For example,
it should soon become possible to define different biologic components of the tumor that could potentially be targeted and then monitored for response using these same imaging techniques.76
Current treatment planning makes the tacit assumption that the
planning image yields “the truth” about the location and condition

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

149

Figure 13.20 Six intensity-modulated treatment ports planned for

Figure 13.19 An illustration of the brain tumor target volume delineated
on coregistered nuclear medicine and magnetic resonance imaging
studies fused with computed tomography (CT) data for treatment
planning. PET, positron emission tomography.

of tumors and normal tissues throughout the course of treatment.
However, this ignores the complexity inherent in attempting to
build accurate 3D models from multimodality imaging for purposes of planning patient treatments. First, patients breathe and
undergo other physiologic processes during a single treatment,
changes that require dynamic modeling or other methods of accounting for the changes. Furthermore, the patient’s condition
may change over time (and hence their model). Thus, a complete
design and assessment of a patient undergoing high-precision treatment requires the construction of four-dimensional (4D) patient
models. Indeed, the recent ready availability of multidetector CT
scanners with subsecond gantry rotations, and even more recently,
the availability of cone-beam CT capabilities on the radiation
therapy treatment simulators and treatment machines themselves,
now makes it possible to construct 4D patient models. A very active area of physics research72,75 deals with IGRT, including the
formation of 4D patient models (including distortions and changes
in anatomy) of the motion over time and the determination of the
accumulated dose received by a moving tumor as well as the surrounding normal tissues such as uninvolved lung.
Complementary to the availability of these patient and dose
models has come a much better understanding of the doses safely
tolerated by normal tissues adjacent to a tumor volume (e.g., spinal
cord) or surrounding it (e.g., brain, lung, liver).77 Indeed, not only
has knowledge of whole organ tolerances to irradiation been obtained, but it has also become possible to characterize in some
detail the complex dependence of the probability of incurring a
complication with respect to the highly (intentionally) inhomogeneous dose distributions these normal tissues receive as part of
the planning process designed to avoid treating them. Modeling
partial organ tolerances to irradiation is of great use in planning patient treatments because it enables78 integration and manipulation
of variable dose and volume distributions with respect to possible
clinical outcomes.
Making the vast amount of tumor and normal tissue information useful for planning treatments requires equally sophisticated
new ways of planning and delivering dose, potentially preferentially targeting subvolumes of the tumor regions or specifically

treatment of a brain tumor (large object in red). Differing intensities of
the 5 × 5 mm beamlets in each port illustrated by gray scale (brighter
beamlet = higher intensity). The computer optimization of the beamlet
intensities is designed to generate a delivered dose distribution that will
conform to the tumor region, yet avoid critical normal tissues such as the
brain stem (dark pink), optic chiasm (green), and optic nerves (red tubular
structures).

avoiding selected portions of adjacent organs at risk. As mentioned
earlier, modern treatment machines are capable of either varying
the intensity of the radiation across each treatment port or projecting many small beams at a targeted region. This modulation of
beam intensities (IMRT) from a given beam direction, together
with the use of multiple beams (or parts of beams) from different
directions, gives many degrees of freedom to create highly sculpted
dose distributions, given that a system for designing the intensity
modulation is available. Much computer programming and computational analysis has gone into the design of treatment-planning
optimization systems to perform these functions.79,80
In IMRT, as most often applied, each treatment beam portal
is broken down into simple basic components called beamlets,
typically 0.5 to 1 cm × 1 cm in size, evenly distributed on a grid
over the cross-section of each beam. Optimization begins with precomputation of the relative dose contribution that each of these
beamlets gives to every subportion of tumor and normal tissue that
the beamlet traverses as it goes through the patient model. Sophisticated optimization engines and search routines then iteratively
alter the relative intensities of each beamlet in all the beams to
minimize a cost function associated with target and normal tissue
treatment goals. These, often hundreds of beamlets (each with its
own intensity) (Fig. 13.20), provide the necessary flexibility and
degrees of freedom to create dose distributions that can preferentially irradiate subportions of targets and also produce sharp dose
gradients to avoid nearby organs at risk (Fig. 13.21). The cost-function approach also facilitates the ability to include factors such as
the normal tissue and tumor-response models, mentioned previously in the optimization process, thus integrating the overall effects of the complex dose distributions across whole organ systems
or target volumes within the planning process.

OTHER TREATMENT MODALITIES
Other types of external-beam radiation treatments use atomic
or nuclear particles rather than photons. Beams of fast neutrons
have been used for some cancers,81 primarily because of the

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Chapter 13 Essentials of Radiation Therapy

150

Cancer Therapeutics

Figure 13.21 Resulting isodose distribution for an optimized intensity-modulated brain treatment. Dose-intensity pattern in the left panel is overlaid on
the patient’s magnetic resonance images used in planning. Also contoured are the optic chiasm (green), the brain stem (white), and the eyes (orange).
In the right panel, the dose distribution throughout all slices of the patient’s anatomy is summarized via cumulative dose-volume histograms for the
various tissues and volumes that have been previously segmented. Each location on each curve represents the fraction of the volume of that tissue (%)
that receives greater than or the same as the corresponding dose level.

dense ionization patterns they produce as they slow down in tissue (making cell killing less dependent on the indirect effect
previously discussed). Being uncharged particles, neutron beams
of therapeutic energy penetrate in tissue (have depth-dose characteristics) similar to photon beams, but with denser dose deposition in the cellular scale. Most other external-beam treatments
use charged particles, primarily either electrons82 (produced on
the same machines used for photon beam treatments) or protons
or heavier particles such as carbon ions.83,84 The latter beams have
desirable dose-deposition properties (see Fig. 13.18), because they
can spare tissues downstream from the target volume and generally give less overall dose to normal tissue. There can also be some
radiobiologic advantage to the heavier charged particle beams,
similar to neutrons. The generation and delivery of proton beams
and heavier charged particle beams generally requires an accelerator (in its own vault) plus a beam transport system and some sort of
treatment nozzle, often located on an isocentric gantry. The cost
of the accelerator is generally leveraged by having it supply beams
to multiple treatment rooms, but these units still cost many times
that of a standard linear accelerator.
Brachytherapy85 is a form of treatment that uses direct placement of radioactive sources or materials within tumors (interstitial
brachytherapy) or within body or surgical cavities (intracavitary
brachytherapy), either permanently (allowing for full decay of
short-lived radioactive materials) or temporarily (either in one
extended application or over several shorter term applications).
The ability to irradiate tumors from close range (even from the
inside out) can lead to conformal treatments with low normal
tissue doses. The radioactive isotopes most generally used for
these treatments are contained within small tubelike or seedlike
sealed source enclosures (which prevents direct contamination).
They emit photons (gamma and x-rays) during their decay, which
penetrate the source cover and interact with tissue via the same
physical processes as described for external-beam treatments. The
treatments have the advantage of providing a high fluence (and
dose) very near each source that drops in intensity as 1 over the
square of the distance from the source (1/r2). Radioactive sources
decay in an exponential fashion characterized by their individual
half-lives. After each half-life (T1/2) the strength of each source
decreases by half. Brachytherapy treatments are further generally classified into the two broad categories of low–dose-rate and

high–dose-rate treatments. Low–dose-rate treatments attempt
to deliver tumoricidal doses via continuous irradiation from implanted sources over a period of several days. High–dose-rate treatments use one or more higher activity sources (stored external to
the patient) together with a remote applicator or source transfer
system to give one or more higher dose treatments on time scales
and schedules more like external-beam treatments.
Isotopes for brachytherapy treatments are selected on the basis
of a combination of specific activity (i.e., how much activity can
be achieved per unit mass [i.e., to keep the source sizes small]),
the penetrating ability of the decay photons (together with the 1/r2
fall off determines how many sources or source location will be
required for treatment), and the half-life of the radioactive material (which must be accounted for in computation of dose, but also
determines how often reusable sources will need to be replaced).
Table 13.1 lists those isotopes most commonly used, along with
some of their primary applications.
The dose-deposition patterns surrounding each type of source
can be measured or computed. These data (or the parameterization

TA B L E 1 3 . 1
Common Isotopes for Brachytherapy Treatment
Isotope

Form

Primary Applications

125

I

Implantable sealed
seed

LDR: Permanent prostate
implants, brain implants, tumor
bed implants, eye plaques

192

Ir

Implantable sealed
seed

LDR: Interstitial solid tumor
treatments

192

Ir

High activity sealed
source on a remote
transfer wire

HDR: Intracavitary GYN
treatments, intraluminal
irradiations

137

Cs

Sealed source tubes

LDR: Intracavitary GYN
treatments

LDR, low-dose rate; HDR, high-dose rate; GYN, gynecologic; 137Cs,
caesium-137.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

of same) can be stored within a computerized treatment-planning
system. Planning a brachytherapy treatment-delivery scheme (desirable source strengths and arrangements) proceeds within the planning system by distributing the sources throughout the treatment
area and having the computer add up the contributions of each
source to designated tumor and normal tissue locations (e.g., obtained from a CT scan). Source strengths or spacing can be adjusted
until an acceptable result is obtained. Indeed, optimization systems
are now routinely used to fine tune this process.
Other types of therapeutic treatments with internal sources of
ionizing radiation, generally classified as systemic targeted radionuclide therapy (STaRT), use antibodies or other conjugates or
carriers such as microspheres to selectively deliver radionuclides to
cancer cells.86 Computing the effective dose to tumors and normal
tissues via these techniques requires information on how much of
the injected activity reaches the targets (biodistribution) as well
as the energy and decay properties of the radionuclide being delivered. Imaging techniques and computer models are aiding in
these computations.

CLINICAL APPLICATIONS OF RADIATION
THERAPY
In contrast to surgical oncology and medical oncology, which focus
on early- or late-stage disease, respectively, the field of radiation oncology encompasses the1p8.49 entire spectrum of oncology. Board
certification requires 5 years of postdoctoral training, typically beginning with an internship in internal medicine or surgery, followed
by 4 years of radiation oncology residency. Education, as defined by
leaders in the field,87 begins with a thorough knowledge of the biology, physics, and clinical applications of radiation. It also includes
training in the theoretical and practical aspects of the administration of radiation protectors and anticancer agents used as radiation
sensitizers and the management of toxicities resulting from those
treatments. In addition, residents receive education in palliative
care, supportive care, and symptom and pain management. This
training is in preparation for a practice that, in a given week, might
include patients with a 2-mm vocal cord lesion or a 20-cm soft tissue sarcoma, both of whom can be treated with curative intent, as
well as a patient with widely metastatic disease who needs palliative
radiation, medical care for pain and depression, and discussion of
end-of-life issues. More than 50% of (nonskin) cancer patients receive radiation therapy during the course of their illness.88

Clinical Application of Types of Radiation
Electrons are now the most widely used form of radiation for superficial treatments. Because the depth of penetration can be well
controlled by the energy of the beam, it is possible to treat, for
instance, skin cancer, a small part of the breast while sparing the
underlying lung, or the cervical lymph nodes but not the spinal
cord, which lies several centimeters more deeply. Superficial tumors, such as of skin cancers, can also be treated very effectively
with low-energy (kilovoltage) photons, but their use has decreased
because a separate machine is required for their production.
The main form of treatment for deep tumors is photons. As
described in the Radiation Physics section, photons spare the skin
and deposit dose along their entire path until the beam leaves the
body. The use of multiple beams that intersect on the tumor permit high doses to be delivered to the tumor with a relative sparing
of normal tissue. The pinnacle of this concept is IMRT, which
uses hundreds of beams and can treat concave shapes with relative
sparing of the central region (see Figs. 13.20 and 13.21). However, as each beam continues on its path beyond the tumor, this
use of multiple beams means that a significant volume of normal
tissue receives a low dose. There has been considerable debate
concerning the magnitude of the risk of second cancers produced

151

by radiating large volumes with low doses of radiation.89 Charged
particle beams (proton and carbon, in this discussion) differ from
photons in that they interact only modestly with tissue until they
reach the end of their path, where they then deposit the majority of their energy and stop (the Bragg peak; see Fig. 13.18). This
ability to stop at a chosen depth decreases the region of low dose.
The chief form of charged particle used today is the proton. In the
decade from 1980 to 1990, proton therapy could deliver higher
doses of radiation to the target than photon therapy because protons could produce a more rapid fall off of dose between the target and the critical normal tissue (e.g., tumor and brain stem).
Therefore, initially, their main application was in the treatment
uveal melanomas, base-of-skull chondrosarcomas, and chordomas. In contrast, today’s IMRT photons are more conformal in the
high-dose region than protons due to the range uncertainty of the
latter.90 Thus, it seems unlikely that protons will permit a higher
target dose to be delivered than photons. In contrast, protons have
the potential to decrease regions of low dose. This would be of
particular advantage in the treatment of pediatric malignancies,
where low doses of radiation would tend to increase the chance
of second cancers and could affect neurocognitive function in the
treatment of brain tumors.
A carbon ion beam has an additional potential biologic advantage over protons. As discussed in the section Biologic Aspects
of Radiation Oncology, hypoxic cells, which are found in many
tumors, are up to 3 times more resistant to photon or proton radiation than well-oxygenated cells. In contrast, hypoxia does not
cause resistance to a carbon beam. Whether hypoxia is a cause
of clinical resistance to fractionated radiation is still debated.91 A
carbon beam is available at a few sites in Europe and Japan.
Two major issues have affected the widespread acceptance of
protons. The most widely recognized is cost. Proton (approximately
$120 million) and carbon beam facilities (in excess of $200 million) are substantially more expensive than a similar-sized photon
facility (approximately $25 million). The operating costs appear to
be significantly higher as well. Although the majority of patients
who have received proton therapy have prostate cancer, there is no
evidence that protons produce superior results to those obtained
with IMRT planned photons.92,93 The lack of solid evidence that
protons are superior to photons for any disease site and the magnitude of these costs are of societal importance.94 Although less
expensive single gantry proton units are under construction, there
are no functioning units at the time of this writing. A second, less
well-appreciated issue concerns the need to develop full integration of charged particle beams with IGRT, as has already been
accomplished with photons, although this feature is being incorporated into second-generation proton units.
Neutron therapy attracted significant interest in the 1980s,
based on the principle that it would be more effective than photons against hypoxic cells that some have thought are responsible
for radiation resistance of tumors. The effectiveness of neutron
therapy has been limited by initial difficulties with collimation and
targeting, although there is evidence that they have a role in the
treatment of refractory parotid gland tumors.95
Brachytherapy refers to the placement of radioactive sources
next to or inside the tumor. The chief sites where brachytherapy
plays a role are in prostate and cervical cancer, although it has
applications in head and neck cancers, soft tissue sarcomas, and
other sites. In the case of prostate cancer, most experience is with
low–dose-rate permanent implants using iodine-125 (125I) or, more
recently, palladium-103 (103Pd). Over the last 5 years, there has
been an increasing emphasis on improving the accuracy of seed
placement, guided by ultrasound and confirmed by CT or MRI,
and in skilled hands, outstanding results can be achieved.96 In the
case of cervical cancer, high–dose-rate treatment, which can be
performed in an outpatient setting, has essentially replaced low–
dose-rate treatment, which typically requires general anesthesia
and a 2-day hospital stay. The results from both techniques appear
to be approximately equivalent.

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Chapter 13 Essentials of Radiation Therapy

152

Cancer Therapeutics

Yttrium microspheres represent a distinct form of brachytherapy. These spheres carry yttrium-90 (90Y), a pure beta emitter with
a range of about 1 cm. These have been used to treat both primary
hepatocellular cancer and colorectal cancer metastatic to the liver
(hepatic arterial or systemic chemotherapy) by administration
through the hepatic artery.

TREATMENT INTENT
Radiation doses are chosen so as to maximize the chance of tumor
control without producing unacceptable toxicity. The dose of
radiation required depends on the tumor type, the volume of disease (number of tumor cells), and the use of radiation-modifying
agents (such as chemotherapeutic drugs used as radiation sensitizers). Except for a subset of tumors that are exquisitely sensitive to
radiation (e.g., seminoma, lymphoma), doses that are required are
often close to the tolerance of the normal tissue. A key fact driving
the choice of dose is that a 1-cm3 tumor contains approximately 1
billion cells. It follows that the reduction of a tumor that is 3 cm in
diameter to 3 mm, which would be called a complete response by
CT scan, would still leave 1 million tumor cells. Because each radiation fraction appears to kill a fixed fraction of the tumor, the dose
to cure occult disease needs to be more similar to the dose for gross
disease than one might otherwise expect. Thus, radiation doses
(using the standard fractionation) of 45 to 54 Gy are typically used
in the adjuvant setting when there is moderate suspicion for occult
disease, 60 to 65 Gy for positive margins or when there is a high
suspicion for occult disease, and 70 Gy or more for gross disease.
It is common during the course of radiation to give higher doses
of radiation to regions that have a higher tumor burden. For example, regions that are suspected of harboring occult disease may be
targeted to receive (in once daily 2-Gy fractions) 54 Gy, whereas, to
control the gross tumor, the goal may be to administer a total dose
of 70 Gy. Because the gross tumor will invariably reside within the
region at risk for occult disease, it has become standard practice
to deliver 50 Gy to the entire region, and then an additional boost
dose of 20 Gy to the tumor. This sequence is called the shrinking
field technique. With the development of IMRT, it has become
possible to treat both regions with a different dose each day and
achieve both goals simultaneously. For example, on each of the
35 days of treatment, the gross tumor might receive 2 Gy, and the
region of occult disease 1.7 Gy, for a total dose of 59.5 Gy, which
is of approximately equal biologic effectiveness to 54 Gy in 1.8-Gy
fractions because of the lower dose per fraction (see the section
Biologic Aspects of Radiation Oncology).
Radiation therapy alone is often used with curative intent for
localized tumors. The decision to use surgery or radiation therapy
involves factors determined by the tumor (e.g., is it resectable without a serious compromise in function?) and the patient (e.g., is the
patient a good operative candidate?). The most common tumor in
this group is prostate cancer, but patients with early-stage larynx
cancer often receive radiation for voice preservation, and there are
many patients with early-stage lung cancer who are not operative
candidates. Control rates for these early-stage lesions are in excess
of 70% (and as high as 90% for early-stage larynx cancer) and are
usually a function of tumor size.
Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT; sometimes called
stereotactic ablative radiation) uses many (typically more than
eight) cross-firing beams and provides an improved method of curing early-stage lung cancer97 and liver metastases.98 This approach
uses precise localization and image guidance to deliver a small
number (less than five) of high doses of radiation, with the concept
of ablating the tumor, rather than using fractionation to achieve a
therapeutic index (see the section title Fractionation). SBRT can
provide long-term, local control rates of >90% for tumors less than
4 to 5 cm with minimal side effects.
Locally advanced or aggressive cancers can be cured with radiation alone or with a combination of radiation and chemotherapy

or a molecularly targeted therapy. The most common examples
here are locally advanced lung cancer, head and neck, esophageal, and cervix cancers, with cure rates in the 15% to 40% range,
and are discussed in detail in their own chapters. A general principle that has emerged during the last decade is that combination
chemoradiation has increased the cure rates of locally advanced
cancers by 5% to 10% at the cost of increased toxicity.
An important consideration in the use of radiation (with or
without chemotherapy) with curative intent is the concept of organ
preservation. Perhaps the best example of achieving organ preservation in the face of gross disease involves the use of chemotherapy
and radiation to replace laryngectomy in the treatment of advanced larynx cancer. Combined radiation and chemotherapy
does not improve overall survival compared with radical surgery;
however, the organ-conservation approach permits voice preservation in approximately two-thirds of patients with advanced larynx
cancer.99 The treatment of anal cancer with chemoradiation can
also be viewed in this light, with chemoradiotherapy producing
organ conservation and cure rates superior to radical surgery used
decades ago.100 Multiple randomized trials have demonstrated
that lumpectomy plus radiation for breast cancer produces survival
rates equal to that of modified radical mastectomy, while allowing
for the preservation of the breast.
In the last decade, it has become clear that some patients with
metastatic disease can be cured with radiation (with or without
chemotherapy). The concept underlying this approach was established by the surgical practice of resecting a limited number of
liver or lung metastases. A significant fraction of patients have a
limited number of liver metastases that cannot be resected because
of location, but are able to undergo high-dose radiation (often combined with chemotherapy). This radical approach to oligometastases101 can produce 5-year survivals in the range of 20% in selected
patients.102 Patients with a limited number of lung metastases from
colorectal cancer or soft tissue sarcomas are now being approached
with stereotactic body radiation with a similar concept as has been
used to justify surgical resection.102 In addition to the direct effect of radiation on metastatic tumor, there is now anecdotal but
provocative evidence that radiation can stimulate the immune system so that tumors distant from the irradiated tumor can respond.
Distant (abscopal) responses have been reported in patients who
receive immune checkpoint inhibitors such as ipilimumab.103
Radiation therapy can also contribute to the cure of patients
when used in an adjuvant setting. If the risk of recurrence after surgery is low or if a recurrence could be easily addressed by a second
resection, adjuvant radiation therapy is not usually given. However,
when a gross total resection of the tumor is still associated with a
high risk of residual occult disease or if local recurrence is morbid,
adjuvant treatment is often recommended. A general finding across
many disease sites is that adjuvant radiation can reduce local failure
rates to below 10%, even in high-risk patients, if a gross total resection is achieved. If gross disease or positive margins remain, higher
doses and/or larger volumes may be required, which may be less
well tolerated and are less successful in achieving tumor control.
Adjuvant therapy can be delivered before or after definitive surgery. There are some advantages to giving radiation therapy after
surgery. The details of the tumor location are known and, with the
surgeon’s cooperation, clips can be placed in the tumor bed, permitting increased treatment accuracy. In addition, compared with
preoperative therapy, postoperative therapy is associated with fewer
wound complications. However, in some cases, it is preferable to
deliver preoperative radiation. Radiation can shrink the tumor,
diminishing the extent of the resection, or making an unresectable tumor resectable. In the case of rectal cancer, the response to
treatment may carry more prognostic information than the initial
TNM staging.104 In patients who will undergo significant surgeries (particularly a Whipple procedure or an esophageal resection),
preoperative (sometimes called neoadjuvant) therapy can be
more reliably administered than postoperative therapy. Most importantly, after resection of abdominal or pelvic tumors (such as

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

153

rectal cancers or retroperitoneal sarcomas), the small bowel may
become fixed by adhesions in the region requiring treatment, thus
increasing the morbidity of postoperative treatment. A randomized
trial has shown that preoperative therapy produces fewer gastrointestinal side effects and has at least as good efficacy as postoperative adjuvant therapy for locally advanced rectal cancer.105 Taken
together, there appears to be a trend toward preoperative or neoadjuvant therapy in cancers of the gastrointestinal track (esophagus,
stomach, pancreas, rectum), postoperative radiation seems to be
favored in head and neck, lung, and breast cancer, and soft tissue
sarcoma seems equally split.
The effectiveness of adjuvant therapy in decreasing local recurrence has been demonstrated in randomized trials in lung, rectal,
and breast cancers. More recently, randomized trials have shown
that postmastectomy radiation improved the survival for women
with breast cancer and four or more positive lymph nodes, all of
whom also received adjuvant chemotherapy. A fascinating analysis has revealed that, across many treatment conditions, each 4%
increase in 5-year local control is associated with a 1% increase
in 5-year survival.106 It has been proposed that the long-term survival benefit of radiation in these more recent studies was revealed
by the introduction of effective chemotherapy, which prevented
such a high fraction of women from dying early with metastatic
disease.107 This concept has been developed into a hypothesis that
the effect of adjuvant radiation on survival will depend on the effectiveness of adjuvant chemotherapy. If chemotherapy is either
ineffective or very effective, adjuvant radiation may have little
influence on the survival in a disease in which systemic relapse
dominates survival. Radiation will have its greatest impact on survival when chemotherapy is moderately effective.108
In addition to these curative roles, radiation plays an important
part in palliative treatment. Perhaps most importantly, emergency
irradiation can begin to reverse the devastating effects of spinal
cord compression and of superior vena cava syndrome. A single
8-Gy fraction is highly effective for many patients with bone pain
from a metastatic lesion. There is increasing evidence of the effectiveness of body stereotactic radiation to treat vertebral body metastases in patients who have a long projected survival or who need
retreatment after previous radiation.109 Stereotactic treatment can
relieve symptoms from a small number of brain metastasis, and
fractionated whole-brain radiation can mitigate the effects of multiple metastases. Bronchial obstruction can often be relieved by a
brief course of treatment as can duodenal obstruction from pancreatic cancer. Palliative treatment is usually delivered in a smaller
number of larger radiation fractions (see the section titled Fractionation) because the desire to simplify the treatment for a patient
with limited life expectancy outweighs the somewhat increased
potential for late side effects.

was equivalent to about 0.75 Gy per day.110 The data were best
modeled by assuming that, approximately 2 weeks into treatment,
tumor cells began to proliferate more rapidly than they were proliferating early in treatment (called accelerated repopulation).111 In
accelerated fractionation, the goal is to complete radiation before
the accelerated tumor cell proliferation occurs. The most common method of achieving accelerated fractionation is to give a
standard fraction to the entire field in the morning and to give a
second treatment to the boost field in the afternoon (called concomitant boost). As in standard radiation, the boost would be given
by extending the length of the treatment course; this concomitant
boost approach can shorten treatment from 7 weeks to 5 weeks in
head and neck cancer.
The second approach to altering fractionation is called hyperfractionation. Hyperfractionation is defined as the use of more
than one fraction per day separated by more than 6 hours (see the
section titled Biologic Aspects of Radiation Oncology), with a dose
per fraction that is less than standard. Hyperfractionation is expected to produce fewer late complications for the same acute effects against both rapidly dividing normal tissues and tumors. Pure
hyperfractionation might give 1 Gy twice a day, so that the total
dose per day would be 2 Gy, and thus be equal to standard fractionation. In practice, hyperfractionated treatments are usually in
the range of 1.2 Gy, which means that, compared with a standard
fractionation, a somewhat higher dose is administered during the
same period of time (so that most hyperfractionation also includes
modest acceleration). The overall effect is to increase the acute
toxicity (which resolves) and tumor response, while not increasing the (dose-limiting) late toxicity, which can improve cure rate.
Both accelerated fractionation and hyperfractionation have been
demonstrated in a meta-analysis to be superior to standard fractionation in the treatment of head and neck cancer with radiation
alone.112 However, a recent randomized trial has shown that there
is no increase in control or survival, but there is an increase toxicity
using chemotherapy with hyperfractionation compared to standard chemoradiation; therefore, the use of altered fractionation
schemes has decreased dramatically during the last few years.113
Hypofractionation refers to the administration of a smaller number of larger fractions than is standard. Hypofractionation might be
expected to cause more late toxicity for the same antitumor effect
than standard or hyperfractionation. In the past, this approach was
reserved for palliative cases, with the sense that a modest potential for increased late toxicity was not a major concern in patients
with limited life expectancy. However, more recently, it has been
proposed that the ability to better exclude normal tissue by using
IGRT may permit hypofractionation to be used safely and that, in
the specific case of prostate cancer, hypofractionation may have
beneficial effects.114

FRACTIONATION

ADVERSE EFFECTS

Two crucial features that influence the effectiveness of a physical
dose of radiation are the dose given in each radiation treatment
(i.e., the fraction) and the total amount of time required to complete the course of radiation. Standard fractionation for radiation
therapy is defined as the delivery of one treatment of 1.8 to 2.25 Gy
per day. This approach produces a fairly well-understood chance
of tumor control and risk of normal tissue damage (as a function of
volume). By altering the fractionation schemes, one may be able to
improve the outcome for patients undergoing curative treatment
or to simplify the treatment for patients receiving palliative therapy.
Two forms of altered fractionation have been tested for patients undergoing curative treatment: accelerated fractionation
and hyperfractionation. Accelerated fractionation emerged from
analyses of the control of head and neck cancer as a function of
dose administered and total treatment time. It was found that with
an increasing dose there was increasing local control, but that protraction of treatment was associated with a loss of local control that

Radiation produces adverse effects in normal tissues. Although
these are discussed in detail in later chapters as part of comprehensive discussions of organ toxicity, it is worth making some general
comments here from the perspective of how radiation biology relates to the clinical toxicities. The term radiation toxicity is used
to describe the adverse effects caused by radiation alone and radiation plus chemotherapy. Although this latter toxicity would be
better labeled as combined modality toxicity, the pattern typically
resembles a more severe form of the toxicity produced by radiation
alone. Adverse effects from radiation can be divided into acute,
subacute, and chronic (or late) effects. Acute effects are common,
rarely serious, and usually self-limiting. Acute effects tend to occur
in organs that depend on rapid self-renewal, most commonly the
skin or mucosal surfaces (oropharynx, esophagus, small intestine,
rectum, and bladder). This is due to radiation-induced cell death
that occurs during mitosis, so that cells that divide rapidly show
the most rapid cell loss. In the treatment of head and neck cancer,

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Chapter 13 Essentials of Radiation Therapy

154

Cancer Therapeutics

mucositis becomes worse during the first 3 to 4 weeks of therapy,
but then will often stabilize as the normal mucosa cell proliferation increases in response to mucosal cell loss. It seems likely that
normal tissue stem cells are relatively resistant to radiation compared with the more differentiated cells, because these stem cells
survive to permit the normal mucosa to reepithelialize. Acute side
effects typically resolve within 1 to 2 weeks of treatment completion, although occasionally these effects are so severe that they lead
to consequential late effects, as described later.
Because lymphocytes are exquisitely sensitive to radiation, there
has been considerable investigation into the effects of radiation on
immune function. In contrast to mucosal cell killing, which requires mitosis, radiation kills lymphocytes in all phases of the cell
cycle by apoptosis, so that lymphocyte counts decrease within days
of initiating treatment. These effects do not tend to put patients at
risk for infection, because granulocytes, which are chiefly responsible for combating infections, are relatively unaffected.
Two acute side effects of radiation do not fit neatly into these
models relating to cell kill: nausea115,116 and fatigue.117,118 The
origin of radiation-induced nausea is not related to acute cell loss,
because it can occur within hours of the first treatment. Nausea is
usually associated with radiation of the stomach, but it can sometimes occur during brain irradiation or from large-volume irradiation that involves neither the brain nor the stomach. Irradiation
typically produces fatigue, even if relatively small volumes are
irradiated. It seems likely that the origins of both of these abscopal effects of radiation (i.e., effects that occur systemically or at
a distance for the site of irradiation) are related to the release of
cytokines, but little is known.
Radiation can also produce subacute toxicities in the form of
radiation pneumonitis and radiation-induced liver disease. These
typically occur 2 weeks to 3 months after radiation is completed.
The risk of radiation pneumonitis and radiation-induced liver disease is proportional to the mean dose delivered.119,120 Thus, the
3D tools that permit the calculation of dose-volume histograms
(described in the physics section) are currently used to determine
the maximum safe treatment that can be delivered in terms of dose

and volume. These toxicities appear to be initiated subclinically
during the course of radiation as a cascade of cytokines in which
TGF-β, tumor necrosis factor α, interleukin 6, and other cytokines play a role.121 High TGF-β plasma levels during a course
of treatment have been found to be associated with a greater risk
of radiation pneumonitis.122 Thus, in the future, we might look
toward a combination of physical dose delivery, measured by the
dose-volume histogram, the functional imaging of normal tissue damage, and the detection of biomarkers of toxicity, such as
TGF-β, to improve the ability to individualize therapy. Attempts
to determine the genomic basis of radiation sensitivity, beyond the
known rare genetic defects such as ataxia telangiectasia, have not
yet been successful.123
Late effects, which are typically seen 6 or more months after a
course of radiation, include fibrosis, fistula formation, or long-term
organ damage. Two theories for the origin of late effects have been
put forth: late damage to the microvasculature and direct damage
to the parenchyma. Although the vascular damage theory is attractive, it does not account for the differing sensitivities of organs to
radiation. Perhaps the microvasculature is unique in each organ.124
Regardless of the mechanism of toxicity, the tolerance of wholeorgan radiation is now fairly well established (Table 13.2). Late
complications can also be divided into two categories: consequential and true late effects. The best example of a consequential late
effect is fibrosis and dysphagia after high-dose chemoradiation for
head and neck cancer. Here, late fibrosis or ulceration appears to
be the result of the mucosa becoming denuded for a prolonged
time period. Late consequential effects are distinct from true late
effects, which can follow a normal treatment course of self-limited
toxicity and a 6-month or more symptom-free period. Examples of
true late effects are radiation myelitis, radiation brain necrosis, and
radiation-induced bowel obstruction. In the past, radiation fibrosis
was thought to be an irreversible condition. Therefore, an exciting
recent development is that severe radiation-induced breast fibrosis is an active process that can be reversed by drug therapy (pentoxifylline and vitamin E).125 Radiation therapy also causes second
cancers, which is addressed in detail in Chapter 143.

TA B L E 1 3 . 2
Radiation Tolerance Doses for Normal Tissues
TD 5/5 (Gy)a

TD 50/5 (Gy)b

Portion of Organ Irradiated

Portion of Organ Irradiated

Site

1

/3

2

/3

3

/3

1

/3

2

/3

3

/3

Complication End Point(s)

Kidney

50

30

23

—

40

28

Nephritis

Rain

60

50

45

75

65

60

Necrosis, infarct

Brain stem

60

53

50

—

—

65

Necrosis, infarct

Spinal cord

50 (5–10 cm)

—

47 (20 cm)

70 (5–10 cm)

—

—

Myelitis, necrosis

Lung

45

30

17.5

65

40

24.5

Radiation pneumonitis

Heart

60

45

40

70

55

50

Pericarditis

Esophagus

60

58

55

72

70

68

Stricture, perforation

Stomach

60

55

50

70

67

65

Ulceration, perforation

Small intestine

50

—

40

60

—

55

Obstruction, perforation, fistula

Colon

55

—

45

65

—

55

Obstruction, perforation, fistula,
ulceration

Rectum

(100 cm3 volume)

60

(100 cm3 volume)

80

Severe proctitis, necrosis, fistula

Liver

50

30

55

40

Liver failure

35

a

45

TD 5/5, the average dose that results in a 5% complication risk within 5 years.
TD 50/5, the average dose that results in a 50% complication risk within 5 years.
Adapted from Emami B, Lyman J, Brown A, et al. Tolerance of normal tissue to therapeutic irradiation. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1991;21:109–122.

b

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 13 Essentials of Radiation Therapy

155

S E L E C T E D
The full reference list can be accessed at lwwhealthlibrary.com/oncology.
1. Hall EJ, Giaccia AJ. Radiobiology for the Radiologist. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Williams; 2012.
2. Fowler JF. Developing aspects of radiation oncology. Med Phys 1981;8:
427–434.
3. Lavin MF. Ataxia-telangiectasia: from a rare disorder to a paradigm for cell
signalling and cancer. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 2008;9:759–769.
4. Thompson LH. Recognition, signaling, and repair of DNA double-strand
breaks produced by ionizing radiation in mammalian cells: the molecular
choreography. Mutat Res 2012;751:158–246.

Time (days)
Fractionated radiation alone
+ Cytostatic effect
+ Cytotoxicity
+ Radiosensitization

Figure 13.22 Potential mechanisms of synergy between epidermal
growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors and radiation. Although each
daily radiation treatment kills a fraction of the cells, some cells grow back
by the next day, which attenuates the effectiveness of radiation. If an
EGFR inhibitor has only a selective cytostatic effect and blocks regrowth
between fractions, the result would be a dramatic increase in radiation
efficacy. The benefit of the inhibitor would be even greater if it caused
tumor cell cytotoxicity or radiosensitization.

achieved by the addition of an EGFR antagonist to radiotherapy.
This improvement was achieved without enhanced toxicity. Notably, the rates of pharyngitis and weight loss were identical in the two
arms.60 Local control was improved rather than the development of
metastases, suggesting synergy rather than spatial additivity. Thus,
the principle that can be derived from this study is that in tumors expressing high EGFR levels and that are likely to depend on aberrant
EGF signaling, combining a true cytotoxic agent such as radiation
with a cytostatic agent such as cetuximab has considerable promise.
Because of the success of chemoradiotherapy, the natural tendency has not been to substitute molecularly targeted agents such
as cetuximab for chemotherapy, but to add cetuximab to chemoradiotherapy. Thus, the combination of cisplatin, cetuximab, and
radiation was recently found to have the same control rate as cisplatin and radiation for patients with locally advanced head and
neck cancer, but the cetuximab arm had greater toxicity. Unfortunately, the triple therapy was never evaluated preclinically, and it
has been shown preclinically that when EGFR inhibitors are given
prior to chemotherapy, they can produce antagonism.133 The principles of adding molecularly targeted therapy to chemoradiation
are still evolving.63

R E F E R E N C E S
5. Sherr CJ, McCormick F. The RB and p53 pathways in cancer. Cancer Cell
2002;2:103–112.
6. Bartek J, Lukas J. Chk1 and Chk2 kinases in checkpoint control and cancer.
Cancer Cell 2003;3:421–429.
8. Abraham RT. Cell cycle checkpoint signaling through the ATM and ATR
kinases. Genes Dev 2001;15:2177–2196.
12. Dai Y, Grant S. New insights into checkpoint kinase 1 in the DNA damage
response signaling network. Clin Cancer Res 2010;16:376–383.
15. Helleday T, Lo J, van Gent DC, et al. DNA double-strand break repair: from
mechanistic understanding to cancer treatment. DNA Repair (Amst) 2007;6:
923–935.

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Combining chemotherapy with radiation therapy has produced
important improvements in treatment outcome. Randomized
clinical trials show improved local control and survival through
the use of concurrent chemotherapy and radiation therapy for
patients with high-grade gliomas and locally advanced cancers of
the head and neck, lung, esophagus, stomach, rectum, prostate,
and anus. There are least two proposed reasons why chemoradiotherapy might be successful. The first is radiosensitization. In
the laboratory, radiosensitization is defined as a synergistic relationship, using mathematical approaches such as isobologram or
median effect analysis.126,127 The underlying concept is that the
observed effect of using chemotherapy and radiation concurrently
is greater than simply adding the two together. A second proposed
reason to combine radiation and chemotherapy is to realize the
benefit of improved local control radiation along with the systemic
effect of chemotherapy, a concept called spatial additivity.128
Clinical results show that both radiosensitization and spatial additivity contribute to varying extents in different clinical settings.
In the case of head and neck cancer, radiosensitization predominates. This conclusion is supported by the meta-analysis of head
and neck cancer: sequential chemotherapy and radiotherapy produces little if any improvement in survival, whereas concurrent
chemoradiation produces a significant increase in survival.129 Furthermore, in the early positive studies using concurrent chemoradiation, systemic metastases were unaffected even though survival
was improved. Radiosensitization may also predominate in the
success of chemoradiotherapy for locally advanced lung cancer.
For instance, although initial studies indicated that sequential
chemotherapy and radiation had some benefit for lung cancer,130
more recent work indicates that concurrent therapy is superior,
and it is now the standard treatment.131 However, there are also
examples of spatial additivity. For example, both radiosensitization
and spatial additivity is provided by the use of chemoradiation for
locally advanced cervical cancer in that both local and systemic
relapses are decreased by combined therapy.132
By targeting the aberrant growth factor or proangiogenic pathways that are specific to cancer cells rather than all rapidly proliferating cells, molecularly targeted therapies offer the potential to
improve outcome without increasing toxicity. Even a selective
cytostatic effect against the tumor would be predicted to act synergistically with radiation (Fig. 13.22). Although preclinical studies
(summarized in the previous biology section) have highlighted the
potential therapeutic gains that could be achieved by adding EGFR
inhibitors to radiation, the best validation of this combination has
been from the results of clinical trials in head and neck cancer.
A phase III clinical trial demonstrated that, in a cohort of 424 patients with local–regionally advanced squamous cell carcinoma
of the head and neck, the addition of cetuximab nearly doubled
the median survival of patients (compared to radiotherapy alone),
from 28 to 54 months. This study represents the first major success

Tumor cell numbers

PRINCIPLES OF COMBINING ANTICANCER
AGENTS WITH RADIATION THERAPY

156

Cancer Therapeutics

16. Hefferin ML, Tomkinson AE. Mechanism of DNA double-strand break repair by non-homologous end joining. DNA Repair (Amst) 2005;4:639–648.
17. Ma Y, Pannicke U, Schwarz K, et al. Hairpin opening and overhang
processing by an Artemis/DNA-dependent protein kinase complex in
nonhomologous end joining and V(D)J recombination. Cell 2002;108:
781–794.
22. Esashi F, Galkin VE, Yu X, et al. Stabilization of RAD51 nucleoprotein
filaments by the C-terminal region of BRCA2. Nat Struct Mol Biol 2007;14:
468–474.
23. Sleeth KM, Sorensen CS, Issaeva N, et al. RPA mediates recombination
repair during replication stress and is displaced from DNA by checkpoint
signalling in human cells. J Mol Biol 2007;373:38–47.
24. Littlefield LG, Kleinerman RA, Sayer AM, et al. Chromosome aberrations
in lymphocytes—biomonitors of radiation exposure. Prog Clin Biol Res
1991;372:387–397.
25. Toulany M, Rodemann HP. Membrane receptor signaling and control of DNA repair after exposure to ionizing radiation. Nuklearmedizin
2010;49:S26–S30.
26. Barcellos-Hoff MH, Akhurst RJ. Transforming growth factor-beta in breast
cancer: too much, too late. Breast Cancer Res 2009;11:202.
27. Deng X, Yin X, Allan R, et al. Ceramide biogenesis is required for radiationinduced apoptosis in the germ line of C. elegans. Science 2008;322:110–115.
28. Thompson LH, Suit HD. Proliferation kinetics of x-irradiated mouse L cells
studied WITH TIME-lapse photography. II. Int J Radiat Biol Relat Stud Phys
Chem Med 1969;15:347–362.
29. Sowa Resat MB, Morgan WF. Radiation-induced genomic instability: a role
for secreted soluble factors in communicating the radiation response to nonirradiated cells. J Cell Biochem 2004;92:1013–1019.
30. Elkind MM. The initial part of the survival curve: does it predict the outcome
of fractionated radiotherapy? Radiat Res 1988;114:425–436.
31. McCulloch EA, Till JE. The sensitivity of cells from normal mouse bone
marrow to gamma radiation in vitro and in vivo. Radiat Res 1962;16:
822–832.
32. Withers HR. Recovery and repopulation in vivo by mouse skin epithelial
cells during fractionated irradiation. Radiat Res 1967;32:227–239.
33. Withers HR, Elkind MM. Microcolony survival assay for cells of mouse intestinal mucosa exposed to radiation. Int J Radiat Biol Relat Stud Phys Chem
Med 1970;17:261–267.
34. Suit H, Wette R. Radiation dose fractionation and tumor control probability.
Radiat Res 1966;29:267–281.
35. O’Neill K, Lyons SK, Gallagher WM, et al. Bioluminescent imaging: a critical tool in pre-clinical oncology research. J Pathol 2010;220:317–327.
36. Hewitt HB, Wilson CW. Survival curves for tumor cells irradiated in vivo.
Ann N Y Acad Sci 1961;95:818–827.
39. Elkind MM, Whitmore GF. Radiobiology of Cultured Mammalian Cells.
New York: Gordon and Breach; 1967.
40. Mottram JC. Factors of importance in radiosensitivity of tumors. Br J Radiol
1936;9:606.
43. Overgaard J, Horsman MR. Modification of hypoxia-induced radioresistance in tumors by the use of oxygen and sensitizers. Semin Radiat Oncol
1996;6:10–21.
44. Machtay M, Pajak TF, Suntharalingam M, et al. Radiotherapy with or without erythropoietin for anemic patients with head and neck cancer: a randomized trial of the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG 99-03). Int J
Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2007;69:1008–1017.
45. Henke M, Laszig R, Rube C, et al. Erythropoietin to treat head and neck
cancer patients with anaemia undergoing radiotherapy: randomised, doubleblind, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2003;362:1255–1260.
46. Janssens GO, Rademakers SE, Terhaard CH, et al. Accelerated radiotherapy
with carbogen and nicotinamide for laryngeal cancer: results of a phase III
randomized trial. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:1777–1783.
47. Willett CG, Boucher Y, di Tomaso E, et al. Direct evidence that the VEGFspecific antibody bevacizumab has antivascular effects in human rectal cancer. Nat Med 2004;10:145–147.
48. Lapi SE, Voller TF, Welch MJ. Positron emission tomography imaging of
hypoxia. PET Clin 2009;4:39–47.
49. Lee NY, Mechalakos JG, Nehmeh S, et al. Fluorine-18-labeled fluoromisonidazole positron emission and computed tomography-guided intensitymodulated radiotherapy for head and neck cancer: a feasibility study. Int J
Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2008;70:2–13.
50. Schaue D, Xie MW, Ratikan JA, et al. Regulatory T cells in radiotherapeutic
responses. Front Oncol 2012;2:90.
51. Formenti SC, Demaria S. Combining radiotherapy and cancer immunotherapy: a paradigm shift. J Natl Cancer Inst 2013;105:256–265.
52. Lawrence TS, Davis MA, Tang HY, et al. Fluorodeoxyuridine-mediated cytotoxicity and radiosensitization require S phase progression. Int J Radiat Biol
1996;70:273–280.
53. Lawrence TS, Chang EY, Hahn TM, et al. Radiosensitization of pancreatic
cancer cells by 2′,2′-difluoro-2′-deoxycytidine. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys
1996;34:867–872.
54. Eisbruch A, Shewach DS, Bradford CR, et al. Radiation concurrent with
gemcitabine for locally advanced head and neck cancer: a phase I trial and
intracellular drug incorporation study. J Clin Oncol 2001;19:792–799.

55. Ben-Josef E, Schipper M, Francis IR, et al. A phase I/II trial of intensity
modulated radiation (IMRT) dose escalation with concurrent fixed-dose rate
gemcitabine (FDR-G) in patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer. Int J
Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2012;84:1166–1171.
56. Wolff RA, Evans DB, Gravel DM, et al. Phase I trial of gemcitabine combined with radiation for the treatment of locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Clin Cancer Res 2001;7:2246–2253.
57. Wilson GD, Bentzen SM, Harari PM. Biologic basis for combining drugs
with radiation. Semin Radiat Oncol 2006;16:2–9.
58. Bradley JD, Paulus R, Graham MV, et al. Phase II trial of postoperative
adjuvant paclitaxel/carboplatin and thoracic radiotherapy in resected stage
II and IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer: promising long-term results of the
Radiation Therapy Oncology Group—RTOG 9705. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:
3480–3487.
59. Nyati MK, Morgan MA, Feng FY, et al. Integration of EGFR inhibitors with
radiochemotherapy. Nat Rev Cancer 2006;6:876–885.
60. Bonner JA, Harari PM, Giralt J, et al. Radiotherapy plus cetuximab for locoregionally advanced head and neck cancer: 5-year survival data from a
phase 3 randomised trial, and relation between cetuximab-induced rash and
survival. Lancet Oncol 2010;11:21–28.
61. Ang KK, Zhang QE, Rosenthal DI, et al. A randomized phase III trial (RTOG
0522) of concurrent accelerated radiation plus cisplatin with or without cetuximab for stage III-IV head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNC). J
Clin Oncol 2011;29.
62. Engelke CG, Parsels LA, Qian Y, et al. Sensitization of pancreatic cancer to chemoradiation by the Chk1 inhibitor MK8776. Clin Cancer Res
2013;19:4412–4421.
63. Morgan MA, Parsels LA, Maybaum J, et al. Improving the efficacy of chemoradiation with targeted agents. Cancer Discov 2014;4:280–291.
64. Chalmers AJ, Lakshman M, Chan N, et al. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase
inhibition as a model for synthetic lethality in developing radiation oncology
targets. Semin Radiat Oncol 2010;20:274–281.
66. Winczura P, Jassem J. Combined treatment with cytoprotective agents and
radiotherapy. Cancer Treat Rev 2010;36:268–275.
67. Van Dyk J, ed. Radiation oncology medical physics resources for working,
teaching, and learning. In: The Modern Technology of Radiation Oncology.
Volume 3. Medical Physics Publishing Web site. http://www.medicalphysics.
org/vandykch16.pdf. Madison, WI: Medical Physics Publishing; 2013.
68. Karzmark C, Nunan C, Tanabe E. Medical Electron Accelerators. New York:
McGraw-Hill Ryerson; 1993.
69. Greene D, Williams P. Linear Accelerators for Radiation Therapy. 2nd ed.
New York: Taylor and Francis Group; 1997.
70. Fenwick JD, Tome WA, Soisson ET, et al. Tomotherapy and other innovative
IMRT delivery systems. Semin Radiat Oncol 2006;16:199–208.
71. Curran B, Balter J, Chetty I, eds. Integrating New Technologies into the
Clinic: Monte Carlo and Image-Guided Radiation Therapy. Madison, WI:
Medical Physics Publishing; 2006.
72. Bourland J, ed. Image-Guided Radiation Therapy. Boca Raton, FL: Taylor &
Francis; 2012.
73. Seco J, Verhaegen F, eds. Monte Carlo Techniques in Radiation Therapy.
Boca Raton, FL: Taylor & Francis; 2013.
74. Kessler ML. Image registration and data fusion in radiation therapy. Br J Radiol 2006;79:S99–S108.
75. Brock K, ed. Image Processing in Radiation Therapy. Boca Raton, FL: Taylor
& Francis Group; 2014.
76. Sovik A, Malinen E, Olsen DR. Strategies for biologic image-guided dose
escalation: a review. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2009;73:650–658.
77. Marks LB, Ten Haken RK, Martel MK. Guest editor’s introduction to
QUANTEC: a users guide. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2010;76:S1–S2.
78. Li A, Alber M, Deasy JO, et al. The use and QA of biologically related models
for treatment planning: short report of the TG-166 of the therapy physics
committee of the AAPM. Med Phys 2012;39:1386–1409.
79. Bortfeld T. IMRT: a review and preview. Phys Med Biol 2006;51:R363–R379.
80. Webb S. Contemporary IMRT Developing Physics and Clinical Implementation. London: IOP Publishing; 2005.
81. Maughan R, Yudelev M. Neutron therapy. In: Van Dyk J, ed. The Modern
Technology of Radiation Oncology. Madison, WI: Medical Physics Publishing; 1999.
82. Hogstrom KR, Almond PR. Review of electron beam therapy physics. Phys
Med Biol 2006;51:R455–R489.
83. Schlegel W, Bortfeld T, Grosu A, eds. New Technologies in Radiation Oncology. Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag; 2006.
84. Ma C-MC, Lomax T, eds. Proton and Carbon Ion Therapy. Boca Raton, FL:
Taylor & Francis Group; 2012.
85. Venselaar J, Meigooni A, Baltas D, et al., eds. Comprehensive Brachytherapy:
Physical and Clinical Aspects. Boca Raton, FL: Taylor & Francis Group; 2012.
86. Meredith RF. Systemic targeted radionuclide therapy symposium introduction. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2006;66:S7.
87. Tripuraneni P, Watson RL, Ang KK, et al. Intersociety Radiation Oncology
Summit-SCOPE II. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2008;72:323–326.
88. Delaney G, Jacob S, Featherstone C, et al. The role of radiotherapy in cancer treatment: estimating optimal utilization from a review of evidence-based
clinical guidelines. Cancer 2005;104:1129–1137.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

89. Zelefsky MJ, Housman DM, Pei X, et al. Incidence of secondary cancer
development after high-dose intensity-modulated radiotherapy and imageguided brachytherapy for the treatment of localized prostate cancer. Int J
Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2012;83:953–959.
90. Combs SE, Laperriere N, Brada M. Clinical controversies: proton radiation
therapy for brain and skull base tumors. Semin Radiat Oncol 2013;23:120–126.
91. Overgaard J. Hypoxic radiosensitization: adored and ignored. J Clin Oncol
2007;25:4066–4074.
92. Mouw KW, Trofimov A, Zietman AL, et al. Clinical controversies: proton
therapy for prostate cancer. Semin Radiat Oncol 2013;23:109–114.
93. Yu JB, Soulos PR, Herrin J, et al. Proton versus intensity-modulated radiotherapy for prostate cancer: patterns of care and early toxicity. J Natl Cancer
Inst 2013;105:25–32.
94. Brada M, Pijls-Johannesma M, De Ruysscher D. Proton therapy in clinical
practice: current clinical evidence. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:965–970.
96. Shilkrut M, Merrick GS, McLaughlin PW, et al. The addition of low-doserate brachytherapy and androgen-deprivation therapy decreases biochemical
failure and prostate cancer death compared with dose-escalated externalbeam radiation therapy for high-risk prostate cancer. Cancer 2013;119:
681–690.
97. Iyengar P, Timmerman R. Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy for nonsmall cell lung cancer: rationale and outcomes. J Natl Compr Canc Netw
2012;10:1514–1520.
98. Lo SS, Moffatt-Bruce SD, Dawson LA, et al. The role of local therapy in
the management of lung and liver oligometastases. Nat Rev Clin Oncol
2011;8:405–416.
99. Forastiere AA, Zhang Q, Weber RS, et al. Long-term results of RTOG 9111: a comparison of three nonsurgical treatment strategies to preserve the
larynx in patients with locally advanced larynx cancer. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:
845–852.
100. Gunderson LL, Winter KA, Ajani JA, et al. Long-term update of US GI intergroup RTOG 98-11 phase III trial for anal carcinoma: survival, relapse, and
colostomy failure with concurrent chemoradiation involving fluorouracil/
mitomycin versus fluorouracil/cisplatin. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:4344–4351.
101. Hellman S, Weichselbaum RR. Oligometastases. J Clin Oncol 1995;13:8–10.
103. Stamell EF, Wolchok JD, Gnjatic S, et al. The abscopal effect associated
with a systemic anti-melanoma immune response. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol
Phys 2013;85:293–295.
104. Nagtegaal ID, Gosens MJ, Marijnen CA, et al. Combinations of tumor and
treatment parameters are more discriminative for prognosis than the present
TNM system in rectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:1647–1650.

157

105. Sauer R, Becker H, Hohenberger W, et al. Preoperative versus postoperative
chemoradiotherapy for rectal cancer. N Engl J Med 2004;351:1731–1740.
106. Clarke M, Collins R, Darby S, et al. Effects of radiotherapy and of differences
in the extent of surgery for early breast cancer on local recurrence and 15-year
survival: an overview of the randomised trials. Lancet 2005;366:2087–2106.
109. Wang XS, Rhines LD, Shiu AS, et al. Stereotactic body radiation therapy for
management of spinal metastases in patients without spinal cord compression: a phase 1-2 trial. Lancet Oncol 2012;13:395–402.
112. Bourhis J, Overgaard J, Audry H, et al. Hyperfractionated or accelerated
radiotherapy in head and neck cancer: a meta-analysis. Lancet 2006;368:
843–854.
113. Bourhis J, Sire C, Graff P, et al. Concomitant chemoradiotherapy versus acceleration of radiotherapy with or without concomitant chemotherapy in locally advanced head and neck carcinoma (GORTEC 99-02): an open-label
phase 3 randomised trial. Lancet Oncol 2012;13:145–153.
114. Adkison JB, McHaffie DR, Bentzen SM, et al. Phase I trial of pelvic nodal
dose escalation with hypofractionated IMRT for high-risk prostate cancer. Int
J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2012;82:184–190.
119. Dawson LA, Ten Haken RK. Partial volume tolerance of the liver to radiation. Semin Radiat Oncol 2005;15:279–283.
120. Kong FM, Hayman JA, Griffith KA, et al. Final toxicity results of a radiationdose escalation study in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC):
predictors for radiation pneumonitis and fibrosis. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys
2006;65:1075–1086.
122. Hart JP, Broadwater G, Rabbani Z, et al. Cytokine profiling for prediction
of symptomatic radiation-induced lung injury. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys
2005;63:1448–1454.
123. Barnett GC, Coles CE, Elliott RM, et al. Independent validation of genes
and polymorphisms reported to be associated with radiation toxicity: a prospective analysis study. Lancet Oncol 2012;13:65–77.
129. Blanchard P, Baujat B, Holostenco V, et al. Meta-analysis of chemotherapy
in head and neck cancer (MACH-NC): a comprehensive analysis by tumour
site. Radiother Oncol 2011;100:33–40.
131. De Ruysscher D, Belderbos J, Reymen B, et al. State of the art radiation
therapy for lung cancer 2012: a glimpse of the future. Clin Lung Cancer
2013;14:89–95.
132. Klopp AH, Eifel PJ. Chemoradiotherapy for cervical cancer in 2010. Curr
Oncol Rep 2011;13:77–85.
133. Chun PY, Feng FY, Scheurer AM, et al. Synergistic effects of gemcitabine
and gefitinib in the treatment of head and neck carcinoma. Cancer Res
2006;66:981–988.

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Chapter 13 Essentials of Radiation Therapy

14

Cancer Immunotherapy

Steven A. Rosenberg, Paul F. Robbins, Giao Q. Phan,
Steven A. Feldman, and James N. Kochenderfer

INTRODUCTION

HUMAN TUMOR ANTIGENS

Progress in understanding basic aspects of cellular immunology
and tumor–host immune interactions have led to the development
of immune-based therapies capable of mediating the rejection of
metastatic cancer in humans. Early studies of allografts and transplanted syngeneic tumors in mice demonstrated that it was the
cellular arm of the immune response rather than the action of antibodies (humoral immunity) that was responsible for tissue rejection. Thus, studies of immunotherapy have focused on enhancing
antitumor immune responses of T cells that recognize cancer antigens. Antibodies that recognize growth factors on the surface of
tumors can contribute to tumor regression, primarily by interfering
with growth signals rather than by the direct destruction of tumor
cells. The use of monoclonal antibodies in cancer treatment will
be considered in Chapter 29.
Evidence for specific tumor recognition by cells of the immune system was obtained in experiments first conducted in the
1940s using murine tumors generated or induced by the mutagen methylcholanthrene (MCA). Mice that received a surgical
resection of previously inoculated tumors could be protected
against a subsequent tumor challenge with the immunizing
tumor but not generally protected against challenge with additional MCA tumors. The observation that CD8+ cytotoxic T
cells were primarily responsible for mediating the rejection of
MCA-induced tumors in mice led to the identification of genes
that encoded tumor rejection antigens expressed on murine
tumors as well as the subsequent identification of antigens recognized by human tumor-reactive T cells. The identification of
widely shared nonmutated tumor antigens led to the expectation
that effective vaccine therapies could be developed for the treatment of cancer patients; however, the response rates in clinical
cancer vaccine trials targeting these antigens have, to this point,
been disappointingly low. Vaccination with viruslike particles expressing human papilloma virus (HPV) proteins are successful
in preventing the establishment of cervical cancer and immunization with peptides derived from the oncogenic HPV E6 and
E7 proteins can mediate tumor regression in woman with high
vulvar neoplasia.1 Immune-based therapies have, however, been
identified that mediate the regression of large, established tumor
metastases. Nonspecific immune stimulation with interleukin-2
(IL-2) administration can lead to objective clinical responses in
patients with melanoma and renal cancer,2 and inhibition of
regulatory pathways mediated by CTLA-43 or PD-14 can lead to
tumor regression in patients with metastatic melanoma and lung
cancer. The adoptive transfer of melanoma reactive T cells can
mediate objective clinical responses in 50% to 70% of patients
with melanoma,5 and the ability to genetically modify antitumor
lymphocytes is expanding this cell transfer therapy approach to
the treatment of patients with other cancer histologies.6 Studies
aimed at identifying potent tumor rejection antigens, as well as
mechanisms that regulate immune responses to cancer, are being
actively pursued.

To be recognized by immune lymphocytes, intracellular proteins
must be digested and the resulting peptides transported to the
cell surface and bound to Class I or II main histocompatibility
molecules (Fig. 14.1). A variety of approaches have been used to
identify the antigens that are naturally processed and presented
on tumor cells. These include evaluating the ability of cells transfected with tumor cDNA library pools along with genes encoding
autologous major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules,
as well as the ability of target cells pulsed with peptides eluted
from tumor cell surface MHC molecules for their ability to stimulate tumor reactive T cells. Reverse immunology approaches that
involve either repeated in vitro T cell sensitization or in vivo immunization with candidate peptides or proteins have also lead to
the identification of tumor antigens. Candidate epitopes identified
on the basis of their ability to bind to a particular MHC molecule,
however, may not necessarily be naturally processed and presented
on the tumor cell surface, and there are conflicting reports on the
ability of T cells generated using some candidate epitopes to recognize unmanipulated tumor targets, as discussed further.
Additional tumor antigens have been identified using antisera from cancer patients to screen tumor cell cDNA libraries,
a method that has been termed serological analysis of recombinant cDNA expression (SEREX).7 Although some of the proteins
identified using this technique are expressed in a tumor-specific
manner, many of these antigens are simply expressed at higher
levels in tumor cells than in normal cells. This may occur due
to the release of normal self-proteins from necrotic and apoptotic
tumor cells leading to the generation of antibodies against intracellular proteins that are normally sequestered from the immune
system.
Finally, the use of recently described approaches involving
whole exomic sequencing of tumor cells has led to the identification of mutated tumor antigens. These studies will be discussed
further in the section devoted to mutated tumor antigens

Cancer/Germ-Line Antigens
The first antigen identified as a target of human tumor reactive
T cells was isolated by screening a melanoma genomic DNA library with an autologous cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) clone.8
The gene that was isolated, termed MAGE-1, was found to be a
nonmutated gene that was a member of a large, previously unidentified gene family, many of whose members encode antigens
recognized by tumor reactive T cells.9 Members of this family of
antigens are expressed in the testes and placenta, both of which
lack an expression of MHC molecules, but often not in other normal tissues, which has led to their designation as cancer germ-line
(CG) antigens. Members of the MAGE gene family are expressed
in a variety of tumor types, including melanoma, breast, prostate, and esophageal cancers. The expression patterns of three

158
tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 14 Cancer Immunotherapy

T cell

T cell

CD3

CD3

T-cell
receptor
␣1

␣2

␤2m

159

T-cell
receptor
CD 8

␣1
␣2

␣3

CD 4

␤1
␤2

TM
CYT

CYT
Target cell

Target cell

different cancer/testes antigens in multiple tumor types is shown in
Figure 14.2. The NY-ESO-1 antigen—a CG antigen that is unrelated to the MAGE family of genes—is expressed in approximately
30% of breast, prostate, and melanoma tumors, as well as between
70% and 80% of synovial cell sarcomas.10
Clinical adoptive immunotherapy trials targeting CG antigens have now been conducted in patients with melanoma as
well as other tumor types. In a recent trial, objective clinical responses were seen in approximately 50% of patients with melanoma and 80% of patients with synovial cell sarcoma receiving
autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) transduced with a T-cell receptor directed against an HLA-A*02:01
restricted NY-ESO-1 epitope.6 A trial targeting a MAGEA3

different molecules that interact with
major histocompatibility complex (MHC)
class I and II molecules respectively on
the cell surface and serve to potentiate
immune reactions.

epitopes was recently carried out using a T-cell receptor (TCR)
isolated from an HLA-A*02:01+ transgenic mouse immunized
with the MAGEA3:112–120 peptide.11 Objective clinical responses were observed in five of nine melanoma patients receiving the adoptively transferred PBMC that were transduced with
the MAGEA3-reactive TCR.12 Unexpectedly, neural toxicity was
observed in three of the patients treated in this trial, two of whom
lapsed into a coma and subsequently died. Autopsy samples of
patients’ brains revealed that MAGEA12, which encodes a crossreactive epitope recognized by the MAGEA3 TCR, was expressed
at low levels in patients’ brains, which may have been responsible
for the observed neurologic toxicities. In a recent trial carried
out using an affinity-enhanced human TCR directed against the

% Positive tumors

100.0
90.00

NY-ESO-1
MAGE-A1

80.00

MAGE-A3

70.00
60.00
50.00
40.00
30.00
20.00
10.00
0.00

as
re
nc
l
Pa
ta
ec
or
ol
C
c
a
tri
m
as
to
G
as
bl
ro
eu
N
a
om
rc
Sa e
t
ta
os
Pr
n
ria
va
O
LC
SC a
N
om
an
el
M

C
C
s
H
gu
ha
op
Es
st
ea
l
Br
ia
el

th

ro

U

Tumor type

Figure 14.2 Expression of three different cancer/testes antigens in many different tumor types is shown. These data
reflect reverse transcription–polymerase
chain reaction measurements and is
more sensitive than results obtained by
immunohistochemistry. NSCLC, non–
small-cell lung cancer. (Data compiled
by Dr. J. Wargo. Massachusetts General
Hospital.)

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Figure 14.1 CD8 and CD4 cells use
TM

160

Cancer Therapeutics

HLA-A*01:01-restricted, MAGEA3:168-176 epitope, the first two
patients receiving TCR-transduced autologous PBMC died of cardiac arrest 4 to 5 days following infusion, which was attributed
to cross-reactivity with titin, a protein expressed at high levels in
cardimyocytes.13 Taken together, these findings demonstrate the
need for caution in evaluating cross-reactivity of high affinity
TCRs recognizing tumor antigens.

Melanocyte Differentiation Antigens
Melanoma-reactive T cells have been frequently found to recognize gene products, termed melanocyte differentiation antigens
(MDA), that are expressed in melanomas as well as in normal
melanocytes present in the skin, eye, and ear but not in other
normal tissues or tumor types. These include epitopes derived
from gp100,14,15 tyrosinase,16 TRP-1,17 and TRP-2,18 proteins that
had previously been found to play important roles in melanin
synthesis. The screening of melanoma cDNA libraries with an
HLA-A2–restricted tumor reactive T cells lead to the isolation of
a previously unidentified gene, termed MART-119 or Melan-A.20
The MART-1 antigen, which is expressed in 80% to 90% of fresh
melanomas and cultured melanoma cell lines as well as normal
melanocytes, represents an MDA of unknown function. The majority of melanoma reactive, HLA-A2–restricted tumor-infiltrating
lymphocytes (TIL) recognize a single MART-1 epitope.21 Studies
carried out using a variety of approaches have also resulted in the
identification of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class II restricted
epitopes of tyrosinase, TRP-1, TRP-2, and gp100.9

Overexpressed Gene Products
Gene products that are expressed at low levels in a variety of
normal tissues but are overexpressed in a variety of tumor types
have also been shown to be recognized by T cells. Screening of
an autologous renal carcinoma cDNA library with a tumor reactive, HLA-A3–restricted T-cell clone resulted in the isolation of
FGF5,22 a protein that was expressed only at low levels in normal
tissues but upregulated in multiple renal carcinomas as well as
prostate and breast carcinomas. The peptide epitope recognized
by FGF5-reactive T cells was generated by protein splicing, a process in which distant protein regions are joined together in the
proteasome that had previously only been described in plants23
and unicellular organisms.24 Subsequent studies have led to the
identification of multiple epitopes that result from protein splicing,
suggesting that this represents a general mechanism for generating T-cell epitopes.25–28 Screening of an autologous cDNA library
led to the identification of a previously unknown gene that was
termed PRAME.29 This gene product was expressed in relatively
high levels in melanomas as well as in additional tumor types but
was also expressed at lower levels in a variety of normal tissues that
included the testis, endometrium, ovary, and adrenals. The HLAA24–restricted PRAME reactive T-cell clone, however, expressed
the natural killer (NK) inhibitory receptor p58.2, and tumor cell
recognition was dependent on the loss of expression of the HLA
C*07 allele that represented the ligand for the inhibitory receptor,
which may explain the lack of recognition of normal tissues that
express relatively high levels of this HLA gene product.
Attempts have also been made to generate T cells directed
against overexpressed candidate antigens by repeatedly stimulating PBMC in vitro with peptides that were identified as high
binders for particular MHC molecules either using direct binding
assays or in silico analysis carried out using peptide/MHC binding algorithms.30,31 Using this approach, candidate epitopes have
been identified from a variety of proteins that include prostatespecific antigen (PSA)32 and prostate-specific membrane antigen
(PSMA),33 as well as Her-2/neu, a protein that is frequently overexpressed in a variety of tumor types, including breast carcinomas.
Initial studies indicated that T cells derived by in vitro stimulation

with a peptide that was predicted to bind with high affinity to HLAA*02:01, Her-2/neu:369–377, recognized the appropriate natural
tumor targets.34 In one study, T cells generated following two in
vitro stimulations of postvaccination PBMC from three of the four
patients who were tested efficiently recognized peptide-pulsed targets but failed to recognize appropriate tumor targets.35 Similarly,
although stimulation with a peptide corresponding to amino acids
540 through 548 of the human telomerase reverse transcriptase
(hTERT) catalytic subunit was initially reported to generate
tumor-reactive T cells,36 additional observations indicated that
T cells generated using this peptide failed to recognize tumor
targets.37 These factors responsible for these discrepancies remain
unresolved, although the in vitro stimulation of T cells with target
cells pulsed with relatively high peptide concentrations could have
led to the generation of low-avidity T cells that were incapable of
recognizing naturally processed antigens.
Alternative screening approaches employed for tumor antigen discovery that may help to address these issues include the
use of tandem mass spectrometry to sequence peptides that have
been eluted from tumor cell surface MHC molecules. Use of this
technique, coupled with microarray gene expression profiling,
resulted in the identification of peptides derived from proteins that
appeared to be overexpressed in tumor cells.38 Peptides identified
using this approach may, in many cases, not be immunogenic due
to the fact that their expression in normal tissues, although lower
than in tumor cells, may be high enough to lead to central or
peripheral tolerance. Nevertheless, one of the peptides that were
identified in this study also appeared to be recognized by human
tumor reactive T cells. Recently, a similar approach was used to
identify candidate peptides presented on cell surface MHC molecules that appeared to be derived from proteins that were overexpressed on glioblastomas.39 In a clinical trial involving vaccination
of patients with pools of the identified peptides, overall survival
was associated with the number of peptides in the vaccine pool
that elicited immune response40; however, this may simply reflect
the fact that T cells from healthier patients can more readily generate peptide-specific responses.
Transgenic mice that express human HLA molecules have also
been immunized with candidate antigens in an attempt to identify
high avidity tumor-reactive T cells. Immunization of transgenic
mice expressing HLA-A*0201 with the native human p53:264–272
peptide that differed from the corresponding murine p53 sequence
at a single position lead to the generation of T cells that recognized tumor cells expressing high levels of p53.41 Human T cells
transduced with a murine p53 TCR isolated from an immunized
mouse recognized a variety of human tumor cells; however, transduced T cells also recognized normal cells expressing lower p53
levels, indicating the dangers of targeting a normal self-protein
whose expression is not strictly limited to tumor cells.42 Similarly, a TCR that was highly reactive with HLA-A*02:01+ tumor
cells expressing the human carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), a
protein that is overexpressed in colon and breast carcinomas, was
isolated by immunizing HLA-A*02:01+ transgenic mice with the
CEA:691–699 peptide.43 The adoptive transfer of human PBMC
transduced with the CEA-reactive TCR lead to an objective clinical response in one of the three treated patients; however, severe
colitis was observed in all three of the treated patients.44 In general, immunotherapies that target antigens present even in small
amounts on normal tissues have led to normal tissue destruction
and must be applied with caution.

Mutated Gene Products Recognized by CD8+
and CD4+ T Cells
A variety of mutated antigens have also been identified as targets of tumor reactive T cells. The majority of mutated antigens
identified using these approaches appear to be unique or only expressed in a relatively small percentage of cancers, and so do not

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

161

represent targets that are broadly applicable to the treatment of
multiple patients. Nevertheless, these studies have in some cases
provided insights into mechanisms involved with tumor development, as the mutations may represent drivers of the transformed
phenotype. The CDK4 gene product that was cloned using a
CTL clone contained a point mutation that enhanced the binding to the HLA-A2 restriction element.45 This mutation, which
was identified in 1 of an additional 28 melanomas that were analyzed, led to the inhibition of binding to the cell cycle inhibitory protein p16INK4a and may have played a role in the loss of
growth control in this tumor cell. A point-mutated product of the
β-catenin gene, containing a substitution of phenylalanine for serine at position 37, was isolated by screening a cDNA library with
an HLA-24–restricted, melanoma reactive TIL.46 This mutation
was found to stabilize the β-catenin gene product by altering a
critical serine phosphorylation site, and 2 of 24 additional melanoma cell lines were found to express transcripts with identical
mutations.47
The observation that immunization against individual murine tumors did not generally cross-protect against challenge with
additional syngeneic murine tumors has provided support for the
hypothesis that mutant T-cell epitopes represent the predominant
antigens responsible for tumor rejection.48 Mutated epitopes also
represent a foreign antigen, which may render them more immunogenic than the majority of normal self-antigens. Although many
of the mutations are specific for individual tumors, T cells have
been generated by carrying out in vitro sensitization with peptides
encoded at mutational hot spots present in driver genes.49
Recently, novel approaches have been developed that involve
the sequencing of tumor cell DNA to identify potential mutated
epitopes. In one study, whole exome sequencing of the murine
B16 melanoma led to the identification of mutated epitopes that
elicited a T cell that appeared to specifically recognize the mutated but not the corresponding wild-type peptides.50 In a second
study, a mutated antigen was identified by screening candidate
epitopes that were expressed by tumors derived from immunodeficient mice that regressed in immune-competent mice.51 More
recently, melanomas from three patients who responded to adoptive immunotherapy were subjected to whole exome sequencing,
followed by in silico analysis using peptide/MHC binding algorithms to identify candidate epitopes that were predicted to bind
to the patients’ MHC molecules.52 Using this approach, a total
of seven peptides were identified as targets of the TIL that were
administered to these patients. Two mutated epitopes were recently identified by whole exome sequencing of a melanoma from
a patient who demonstrated a partial response to treatment with
the anti–CTLA-4 antibody ipilimumab, followed by a screening
of a panel of mutated candidate peptide/MHC tetramers that
were predicted to bind to the patient’s HLA-A and B alleles.53
In addition, a mutated epitope expressed by a bile duct cancer
was identified by screening tandem minigenes encoding all mutated epitopes that were identified by whole exome sequencing.54
The adoptive transfer of T cells directed against this mutationmediated regression of the patient’s cancer. Mutations unique to
each cancer represent ideal targets for immunotherapy and can
potentially lead to the development of personalized therapies directed against these unique targets.

self-assembling particles that form following the expression of the
HPV L1 protein in recombinant viral and yeast systems that were
initially found to be protective in animal models. The results of
a phase II trial in which 2,392 women between 16 and 23 years
of age were immunized with HPV-16 VLPs indicated that 100%
of those who were vaccinated were protected against infection
with HPV-16.55,56 Although vaccination with VLP does not lead to
the regression of established disease, some success has been seen
in therapeutic vaccination trials that target the oncogenic viral
proteins E6 and E7. In a trial involving the vaccination of women
with HPV-16–positive high-grade vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia
with synthetic long peptides that encompass both HLA class I and
class II restricted epitopes from the oncogenic HPV proteins E6
and E, clinical responses were observed in 15 of the 19 vaccinated
patients, and complete regression of all lesions were seen in 9 of
the 19 patients in this trial.1
Targeting foreign antigens thus may represent a strategy that
can lead to more effective immunotherapies. These include viral
epitopes as well as mutated epitopes that are also foreign to the
host and therefore may represent more effective targets for these
therapies than normal self-antigen.

Antigens Identified in Viral-Associated
Cancers

1. Nonspecific stimulation of immune reactions
a) Stimulate effector cells
IL -2 (melanoma and renal cancer)
b) Inhibit regulatory factors
Anti-CTLA4 (melanoma)
Anti–PD-1 (melanoma, lung cancer)
2. Active immunization to enhance antitumor reactions (cancer
vaccines)
3. Passively transfer activated immune cells with antitumor
activity (adoptive immunotherapy)

Viruses do not appear to play a role in the development of the majority of human cancers; however, an infection with HPV, a group
of double-stranded DNA viruses that infect squamous epithelium,
is highly associated with the development of a variety of genital
lesions that range from warts to carcinomas, as well as the majority of oropharyngeal carcinomas. Recombinant vaccines have
been produced by the generation of viruslike particles (VLP),

HUMAN CANCER IMMUNOTHERAPIES
A wide variety of therapies have been evaluated in model systems and are now being developed for the treatment of patients
with cancer. These include nonspecific approaches, those that
involve direct immunization of patients with a variety of immunogens and approaches that involve the adoptive transfer of activated effector cells (Table 14.1). Much confusion related to the
effectiveness of cancer immunotherapy has resulted from the lack
of proper evaluation of the results of therapy using standard, accepted oncologic criteria such as the World Health Organization
or the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST).
Many clinical trials reported a positive use of soft criteria such as
lymphoid infiltration or tumor necrosis that can occur in the natural course of cancer growth. Because of the delayed responses
seen with some immunotherapy approaches, including tumor
regression after initial tumor growth, guidelines have been published suggesting the use of an alternate set of immune-related
response criteria for the evaluation of immune-based cancer
treatments.57,58 Other confusion has arisen from the use of inappropriate animal models. Although animal model systems have
provided important clues that may lead to improved therapies,
model systems that employ artificially introduced foreign antigens or that evaluate protection from tumor challenge do not
appear to be relevant to the treatment of patients with bulky metastases. Short-term lung metastasis models involve the treatment
of relatively small, nonvascularized tumors and also may not be
directly relevant to the majority of tumors that are the targets of
current clinical trials.

TA B L E 1 4 . 1
Three Main Approaches to Cancer Immunotherapy

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Chapter 14 Cancer Immunotherapy

162

Cancer Therapeutics

Nonspecific Approaches to Cancer
Immunotherapy
Progress has surged in the past 10 years in the understanding and
utilization of nonspecific immune stimulation for the treatment
of metastatic cancers. These agents aim to activate quiescent
tumor-reactive immune cells or to remove inhibitory mechanisms
to allow immunosuppressed cells to function to their full capacity.
Although IL-2 and ipilimumab are currently the only immune stimulants approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
for the treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma (IL-2) and melanoma (IL-2 and ipilimumab), new immune checkpoint inhibitors
such as anti–programmed cell death 1 (anti–PD-1) have shown impressive results in recent clinical trials for patients with melanoma,
renal cell cancer, and also non–small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC),
and will likely be approved in the near future. As expected with
nonspecific immunostimulation, systemic and bystander immunerelated adverse events such as colitis has been reported with all
agents in varying degrees, although most side effects are controllable and reversible if addressed aggressively and promptly by experienced clinicians. Importantly, antitumor responses seen with
these immune-based modalities appear to be durable for some patients and may even be potentially curative. As with many therapies
for metastatic solid tumors, preliminary trials using combination
therapies have suggested better than expected response rates and
survival, and confirmatory trials are in process to validate and ensure that toxicities from combining agents would not be prohibitive. Overall, patients with metastatic solid tumors may soon have
wider armamentarium of off-the-shelf immunotherapy options.

Interleukin-2
Morgan et al.59 showed that a factor produced in the medium from
stimulated normal human blood lymphocytes can allow ex vivo
growth and expansion of human T lymphocytes. The identification of this soluble T-cell growth factor (IL-2)60,61 allowed the ability to culture T cells in vitro. IL-2 is a 15-kd glycoprotein produced
in minute amounts by activated peripheral blood lymphocytes,
and even with using T-cell hybridomas, minimal quantities could
be purified; thus, research using IL-2 was impeded by the limited
amounts of purified IL-2 available. The isolation of the cDNA clone
in 198362 enabled the development in 1984 of recombinant IL-2,63
which permitted the ability to mass manufacture IL-2. Although
murine studies demonstrated the ability of IL-2 to mediate tumor
regression,64 early phase I clinical trials did not show any antitumor response,65 but was instructive in showing pharmacokinetics
and toxicities, which led to more effective regimens. Subsequently,
IL-2 was given in higher doses (up to 720,000 IU/kg intravenously
every 8 hours) in a landmark trial involving 25 patients, along with
nonspecific lymphokine-activated natural killer (LAK) cells, which
are non-T and non-B lymphocytes.66 This report was the first to
document the regression of advanced solid cancers (melanoma,
renal cell, lung, and colon) using immunotherapy in humans.66 A
follow-up trial randomizing 181 patients to either high-dose IL-2
alone (720,000 IU/kg intravenously every 8 hours) or high-dose
IL-2 and LAK cells showed that the tumor response was due to
IL-2 alone and not to the nonspecific LAK cells.67 This study also
narrowed the IL-2–sensitive histologies to melanoma and renal cell
cancer, which had more consistent responses.

IL‐2 Therapy for Metastatic Renal Cell Cancer
Subsequent to the studies discussed previously, high-dose IL-2 was
tested by additional centers and in combination with other agents
for renal cell cancer. A randomized phase II trial involving 99 kidney cancer patients showed no increase in antitumor responses
with the addition of interferon alfa-2b (IFNα-2b). Responses were
seen for 12 (17%) of 71 patients who received high-dose IL-2 alone,
with 4 complete regressions.68 A summary report of 227 patients

with metastatic renal cell cancer treated with high-dose IL-2 (defined as 600,000 IU/kg or 720,000 IU/kg given intravenously every
8 hours as tolerated up to 15 doses) from 1985 to 1996 at the Surgery Branch of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) documented a
total response rate of 19%, with 10% partial and 9% complete; the
longest duration of a complete response was over 10 years ongoing
(134+ months).69 Another summary report from seven phase II
clinical trials from multiple institutions involving 255 patients with
metastatic renal cell cancer receiving high-dose IL-2 showed the
overall response rate was 14%, with 9% partial and 5% complete,
and responses occurred in all sites of disease, including primary
kidney tumors, bone metastases, and bulking visceral tumor burdens.70 Although the response rates were modest, the durability of
the responses was remarkable, with many responses lasting over
5 years ongoing (see Fig. 14.2). Because of the striking durability of
the antitumor responses, IL-2 received FDA approval for the treatment of metastatic renal cell cancer in 1992. A follow-up report in
2000 showing the response rates of the 255 renal cell patients in
the seven phase II studies to be the same, with complete responses
lasting over 10 years ongoing (131+ months for the longest responder), suggesting a potential cure.71
To ascertain whether lower doses and/or different administration routes, which would decrease toxicity and obviate the need
for inpatient hospitalization for IL-2 therapy, a trial randomizing 400 patients with metastatic renal cell cancer to either
standard high-dose intravenous IL-2, low-dose intravenous IL-2
(at 72,000 IU/kg), or low-dose subcutaneous IL-2 (250,000 U/kg
per dose daily Monday through Friday in the first week and then
125,000 U/kg per dose daily during the next 5 weeks).72 Although
responses were seen with all three regimens, including complete
responses in the low-dose subcutaneous regimen, standard highdose IL-2 had higher overall response rates (21%) versus low-dose
intravenous IL-2 (13%; p = 0.048) and low-dose subcutaneous
IL-2 (10%; p = 0.033), suggesting the superiority of the high-dose
intravenous regimen.72
The administration of IL-2 represents the only known curative
treatment for patients with metastatic renal cell cancer and should
be considered as front-line therapy for suitable patients.

IL‐2 Therapy for Metastatic Melanoma
Between 1985 and 1993, 270 patients with metastatic melanoma
enrolled into eight clinical trials in multiple centers using highdose IL-2 (defined as 600,000 IU/kg or 720,000 IU/kg given intravenously every 8 hours as tolerated up to 15 doses). Atkins et al.73
reported overall response rates of 16% (43 patients), with 10%
partial and 6% complete; responses occurred at all tumor sites
and regardless of initial tumor burden. With median follow-up at
that time of 62 months, 20 responders (47%) were still alive, with
15 surviving over 5 years.73 A follow-up report on those patients
in 2000 showed that the response rates were unchanged; with
the longest response duration of >12 years ongoing, disease progression was not observed in any patient responding greater than
30 months.74 As with renal cell cancer, the flat tail of the KaplanMeier response duration and overall survival curves (Fig. 14.3),
showing the potential curative nature of the antitumor responses,
was the main compelling reason the FDA approved IL-2 for the
treatment of metastatic melanoma in 1998.
Research in subsequent years aimed to increase the response
rates of IL-2, led by increasing interests in tumor vaccinations as
melanoma-associated antigens were being characterized.75 Pilot
studies suggested that vaccinations using modified melanoma differentiation antigens such as gp100:209–217(210M) could elicit
immunologic responses in nearly all patients, and when combined
with high-dose IL-2, could elicit potentially higher than expected
clinical antitumor responses.75 A follow-up phase III study76 randomized 185 patients with HLA*A0201 from 21 centers to either
high-dose IL-2 or high-dose IL-2 plus gp100:209–217(210M)
concurrent immunization. Although the response rates for the

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

1.0
All responders
Complete responders
Partial responders

0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2

0

12

24

36

48

60

72

84

96

108 120

Months

Probability of survival

1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4

163

the toxicities is due to an inflammatory response mediated by the
release of cytokines such as IFNγ and tumor necrosis factor alpha
(TNF-α)81 resulting in a capillary-leak syndrome82 and decreased
systemic vascular resistance, which can lead to fever, hypotension,
cardiac arrhythmia, lethargy, renal insufficiency, hepatic dysfunction, body edema, pulmonary edema, and confusion; other side
effects can also include nausea, diarrhea, rash, anemia, thrombocytopenia, lymphocytosis, and neutrophil chemotactic defect83 that
predispose patients to gram-positive line infections. Since the first
clinical trials with IL-2 in 1984, however, much has been learned
to permit its safe dosing for appropriately screened patients82,84,85;
importantly, if patients are appropriately supported, side effects
are quickly reversible once IL-2 dosing ceases.85 Kammula et
al.86 compared the incidences of grade 3/4 toxicities between the
155 patients treated from 1985 to 1986 to 156 patients treated from
1993 through 1997 at the NCI Surgery Branch: grade 3/4 hypotension decreased from 81% to 31%, intubations from 12% to 3%,
neuropsychiatric toxicities from 19% to 8%, diarrhea from 92% to
12%, line sepsis from 18% to 4%, cardiac ischemia from 3% to
0%, and mortality from 3% to 0%. In fact, no fatality occurred
strictly due to IL-2 therapy since 1989.86 Overall strategies for the
safe administration of high-dose IL-2 include careful screening for
appropriately selected patients with adequate cardiopulmonary reserve, having an experienced team of physicians and nurses who
are cognizant of the expected toxicities of IL-2, having routine preemptive measures such as prophylactic antibiotics to prevent line
infections, and aggressive and prompt management of toxicities.

Checkpoint Modulators

0.2

Anti–Cytotoxic T Lymphocyte Antigen 4
0

12

24

36

48

60

72

84

96 108 120 132

Months
Figure 14.3 Kaplain-Meier plots of response duration (top) and overall
survival (bottom) for 270 patients with metastatic melanoma who were
treated with high-dose bolus IL‐2 from 1985 to 1993 in eight clinical
trials.73

IL-2 plus vaccine arm was statistically improved compared to IL-2
alone (16% versus 6%; p = 0.03), the IL-2 alone arm was notable
for being much lower than in all prior studies.76 In addition, a pilot
trial of 36 melanoma patients treated high-dose IL-2 concurrently
with ipilimumab (an antibody against cytotoxic T lymphocyte–associated antigen 4 discussed in the following section) gave a 25%
OR rate, with 17% achieving complete response77; however, these
data have not been further tested.
Correlative studies suggest that the total doses of IL-2 received
during the first treatment course was significantly higher in
patients achieving a complete response69; however, when limited
to patients who were able to complete both cycles of the course,
there was no statistical significance, suggesting that patients whose
tumors progressed significantly after one cycle (and was not able
to complete the second cycle of the course) accounted for some of
the difference seen.78 Responders did have a higher maximal lymphocyte count69,78 immediately posttherapy and were more likely
to develop vitiligo and thyroid dysfunction.78 There has not been a
consistent pretherapy factor that is predictive of response, although
one retrospective correlative study involving 374 patients showed
that patients with M1a (subcutaneous- and/or cutaneous-only disease) have a response rate of 54% compared with 12% for those
with visceral M1b/c (P2 <0.0001).78

Toxicities and Safe Administration of IL‐2
High-dose IL-2 has been shown to be associated with adverse events
that impact multiple organ systems.73,79,80 The main component of

CTLA-4 is an immunosuppressive costimulatory receptor found
on newly activated T cells (and on regulatory T cells) that binds
with costimulatory ligands B7-1 and B7-2 on antigen-presenting
cells.87,88 When CTLA-4 is engaged by B7-1 or B7-2, the T cells
becomes inhibited,89,90 suggesting that CTLA-4 likely evolved as
a self-protective mechanism to prevent autoimmunity (Fig. 14.4).
Thus, overcoming this checkpoint molecule was an aim of cancer
immunotherapy. After CTLA-4 blockade in murine models led to
antitumor immunity,91,92 anti–CTLA-4 antibodies were tested in
clinical trials starting in 2002.
The combination of anti–CTLA-4 blocking antibodies and vaccination worked well in murine models and led to one of the early
phase II studies using ipilimumab (a fully human immunoglobulin
[IgG1] monoclonal antibody previously called MDX-010) with two
gp100 vaccines, gp100:209–217(210M) and gp100:280–288(288V),
in patients with metastatic melanoma.93 Antitumor regressions
were seen (from 11% to 22% overall response rates, with up to 8%
complete response rates), along with severe autoimmune toxicities
such as colitis, dermatitis, and even hypophysitis,93–95 as would be
expected based on the mechanism of CTLA-4 blockade. In fact,
autoimmunity adverse events appeared to correlate with response
to ipilimumab.3 The experience with these early studies led to
management strategies to screen aggressively for immune-related
adverse events (IRAE), such as routine screening of endocrinopathies, and to treat IRAEs promptly, including high-dose steroids if
needed for severe colitis.96,97 Overall, ipilimumab was in some ways
easier to manage for the patients than IL-2 because it was an outpatient infusion given every 3 weeks; IRAEs were unpredictable, however, and can appear suddenly many weeks after receiving a dose.
In 2010, results from a landmark phase III randomized trial
comparing three treatment strategies (ipilimumab alone, gp100
peptide vaccine alone, or ipilimumab plus gp100 peptide vaccine) in 676 patients with metastatic melanoma were published
showing improvement in median survival in the two arms that
received ipilimumab (10 months) compared to the gp100 alone
arm (6 months, p <0.001), despite showing a low response rate
of 7% (among 540 patients who received ipilimumab).98 Another

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Probability of continuing response

Chapter 14 Cancer Immunotherapy

164

Cancer Therapeutics

“Second Signal”
Additional signal(s) via
costimulatory molecules

Figure 14.4 Mechanism of action of cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte–associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4). When
CD28 is engaged on the T cell, reactivity of the
T cell is enhanced. When CTLA-4 is engaged on the
T cell, reactivity of the T cell is inhibited. Blocking
of CTLA-4 with a monoclonal antibody can elicit
antitumor immunity but also autoimmunity.

phase III randomized trial comparing dacarbazine plus ipilimumab versus dacarbazine alone again showed improved survival in
that arm containing dacarbazine (11.2 months versus 9.1 months;
p <0.001).99 These studies showing survival benefit led to FDA
approval of ipilimumab for advanced melanoma in 2011.
The responses seen with ipilimumab appear to be durable.100
A follow-up study of 177 patients with metastatic melanoma treated
on the earliest trials at the NCI Surgery Branch using ipilimumab
showed that response duration could last 99+ months ongoing.77
In fact, 14 out of the 15 complete responders remain disease free
54+ to 99+ months ongoing, suggesting a potential cure for some
patients. Interestingly, several patients who were deemed partial
responders converted to complete responders several years later,
because it look an average of 30 months to have all visible tumor
marks on imaging scans to disappear.77
Ipilimumab was also tested on other solid tumors, and renal
cell cancer again appears to be the only other type beside melanoma that had significant responses. Sixty-one patients with metastatic renal cell cancer were treated, and six developed a response
(10%); however, 33% developed grade 3/4 IRAEs.101 Subsequently,
the availability of agents with lower toxicity profiles such as sunitinib and sorafenib prevented further enthusiasm to pursue this
drug for renal cell cancer.
Another anti–CTLA-4 antibody, tremelimumab (previously
called CP-675,206), has also demonstrated durable responses in
melanoma patients.102,103 A phase III randomized trial randomizing 655 patients with metastatic melanoma to either tremelimumab or physician’s choice chemotherapy, however, failed to show
a survival difference (despite a significantly different response duration favoring tremelimumab, 35.8 months versus 13.7 months;
p = 0.0011), possibly due to crossover of chemotherapy patients
enrolling into ipilimumab trials and expanded access programs.103

Anti–Programmed Death 1 and Anti–Programmed
Death Ligand 1
PD-1 is another checkpoint modulator expressed on activated
T cells. Although CTLA-4 appears to be involved in the early activation of T cells, PD-1 is involved in the later effector phase of
T-cell activation and can function to prevent excessive damage to
self by activated T cells in the periphery.104,105 Interaction with its
corresponding ligand, PD-L1 (B7-H1) and PD-L2 (B7-H2) leads
to suppressed T-effector function. PD-L1 is expressed on hematopoietic and epithelial cells and is upregulated by cytokines such
as IFNγ,106 whereas PD-L1 is mainly on antigen-presenting cells.
Given the clinical results with inhibiting the CTLA-4 checkpoint,
recent efforts have focused on inhibiting the PD-1/PD-L1 and
PD-1/PD-L2 interactions.
Nivolumab (previously known as BMS-936558, MDX-1106,
and ONO-4538) is a fully human anti–PD-1 IgG4 monoclonal
antibody that was initially tested in a phase I trial published in 2010

in which 39 patients with advanced solid cancers were treated in
escalating doses.107 Responses were seen in one patient with colon
cancer, one with melanoma, and one with renal cell cancer; one
patient developed colitis.108 These hopeful results lead to a larger
study in which 236 patients with either NSCLC (74 patients), melanoma (94 patients), or renal cell cancer (33 patients).4 Objective
responses were seen in 18% of patients with NSCLC, 28% with
melanoma, and 27% with renal cell cancer.4 Grade 3/4 adverse
events occurred in 14% of patients, including those previously seen
with ipilimumab (dermatitis, colitis, hepatitis, thyroiditis, hypophysitis, and pneumonitis). Nine patients developed pneumonitis, six
of whom was reversible, and three (1%) with grade 3/4 died despite
steroids and infliximab therapy.4 An update on the status of 107
melanoma patients treated from 2008 to 2012 shows a 31% tumor
response rate, with a median response duration of 2 years and a
median overall survival of 16.8 months.109
Nivolumab was also tested in combination with ipilimumab
in melanoma in either concurrent (53 patients) or sequenced
(33 patients) regimens. The concurrent group experienced an
overall response rate of 40%, whereas the sequenced group had
a 20% response rate.110 The concurrent group also experienced a
higher rate of grade 3/4 adverse events (53%), compared to 18% in
the sequenced group. Interestingly, 16 of 21 responders in the concurrent group experienced tumor reduction of 80% or greater by
12 weeks,110 a tempo that is faster than was seen with ipilimumab.
Another anti–PD-1 developed independently, lambrolizumab
(previously known as MK-3475, a humanized IgG4κ monoclonal antibody), was tested on 135 patients with metastatic melanoma.111 The response rate was found to be 38% and was similar
between those who had received ipilimumab and those who were
ipilimumab naïve,111 confirming that the antitumor response
from lambrolizumab occurs via a different mechanism. Similar to
nivolumab, 13% of patients developed grade 3/4 adverse events,
with 4% developing pneumonitis, although none developed grade
3/4 pneumonitis.111
BMS-936559 is a fully human IgG4 monoclonal antibody that
blocks PD-L1 ligation to both PD-1 and CD80. A phase I study
was tested in 207 patients (75 with NSCLC, 55 with melanoma,
18 with colon cancer, and 17 with renal cell cancer, 17 with ovarian cancer, 14 with pancreatic cancer, 7 with gastric cancer, and
4 with breast cancer).112 Among patients who were evaluated for
response, objective responses were seen in 16% of melanoma patients, 17% of renal cell cancer patients, 10% of NSCLC patients,
and 1 out of 17 ovarian cancer patients. Grade 3/4 toxicities were
seen in 9% of patients.112
The advent of these checkpoint inhibitors brings additional
treatment options to patients with selected advanced cancers, particularly those with histologies deemed previously to be outside the
realm of immunotherapy such as NSCLC.108,113 In addition, a new
anti–PD-L1 (MPDL3280A) in clinical trials has also shown some efficacy in melanoma, renal cell cancer, and NSCLC in early reports.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

165

Chapter 14 Cancer Immunotherapy

TA B L E 1 4 . 2

Active Immunization Approaches to
Cancer Therapy (Cancer Vaccines)

Experience with Therapeutic Cancer Vaccines

The molecular characterization of multiple cancer antigens led to a
large number of clinical trials that attempted to actively immunize
against these antigens with the expectation that cellular immune
reactions would be generated capable of inhibiting the growth of
established cancers. The results of these efforts have yet to produce significant vaccine efforts of value in the treatment of human
cancer. There is a paucity of murine tumor models that suggests
that active vaccine approaches can mediate the regression of established vascularized tumors; therefore, it is not surprising that these
approaches have, with a few exceptions, shown little efficacy in humans. Enthusiasm about the effectiveness of cancer vaccines has
often been grounded in surrogate and subjective end points, rather
than reliable objective cancer regressions using standard oncologic
criteria. In a review of the world literature, including 107 published
cancer vaccine trials involving 2,242 patients, a 3.4% overall objective response rate was observed (Table 14.2).114,115 In many
cases, relatively soft criteria such as stable disease or the regression
of individual metastases in the presence of progressive disease at
other sites have been reported. A variety of immunizing vectors
have been used, including tumor-derived peptides, proteins, whole
tumor cells, recombinant viruses, dendritic cells, and heat-shock
proteins.116–122 Although many of these approaches can lead to the
development of circulating T cells that can recognize the immunizing tumor antigen, these T cells rarely cause the inhibition of
established tumors, a point that has led to much confusion in the
field of tumor immunology. The generation of antitumor T cells in
vivo is likely a necessary, but certainly not a sufficient criteria for the
development of a clinically active immunotherapy. Often, T cells
with weak avidity for tumor recognition are generated, and the tolerizing and inhibitory influences that exist in vivo must be overcome for an effective immune response to cause tumor destruction.
A prospective randomized trial of immunization with antigenpresenting cells was carried out by the Dendreon Corporation
(Seattle, Washington). This trial used an antigen-presenting cell
vaccine loaded with prostatic acid phosphatase linked to GM-CSF
compared to placebo in men with hormone-refractory prostate
cancer.123 Of 330 patients who received the vaccine treatment,

Number
of Trials

Number of
Patients

Objective
Responses

Surgery Branch, National
Cancer Institute

25

541

14 (2.6%)

Published before 2005114

33

765

29 (4.0%)

115

Published 2005–2010

49

936

34 (3.7%)

Total

107

2,242

77 (3.4%)

1 objective partial response was seen. Only 8 patients experienced
a PSA drop of at least 50%. There was no difference in the time
to disease progression; however, the vaccine group had a median
survival of 25.8 months compared to 21.7 months in the placebo
group, and based on this statistically significant survival improvement, this treatment was approved by the FDA (Fig. 14.5).

Adoptive Cell Transfer Immunotherapy
Adoptive cellular immunotherapy refers to the transfer to the
tumor-bearing host of immune lymphocytes with anticancer
activity. The first successful administration of adoptive cell therapy (ACT) involving TIL, in combination with high-dose IL-2
was carried out at the National Cancer Institute Surgery Branch
in 1988.124 Studies that used cell transfer therapy in patients with
metastatic melanoma have provided the clearest evidence of the
power of the immune system to mediate the regression of advanced
metastatic cancers in humans. Adoptive cell therapy has several
theoretical as well as practical advantages.125 Lymphocytes with
antitumor activity can be expanded to very large numbers ex vivo
for infusion into cancer patients. These cells can be tested in vitro
for antitumor activity, and cells with appropriate properties such as
high avidity for tumor recognition and a high proliferative potential

Primary Efficacy

Probability of survival (%)

100

80

60

Sipuleucel-T

40

Placebo
20

0

0

12

24
36
48
60
Months since randomization

Figure 14.5 Kaplan-Meier estimate of the overall survival in

Number at risk
Sipuleucel-T
Placebo

72

341
171

274
123

129
55

49
19

14
4

1
1

patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer
treated with Sipuleucel-T antigen–presenting cell immunotherapy.
A modest but statistically significant improvement in survival
was seen (P = 0.03).

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Note: Vaccines include: peptide, protein, dendritic cell, virus, plasmid DNA,
and whole tumor cells.

166

Cancer Therapeutics

Adoptive Transfer of Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes (TIL)

Reinfuse post
lymphodepletion

Excise
tumor

Plate
fragments

Select and
expand to
1010 cells

Culture
with 6000
IU/mL IL-2

Assay for
specific tumor
recognition

can be identified and selectively expanded for treatment. These
cells can be activated in vitro and thus are not subjected to the
tolerizing influences that exist in vivo. Perhaps, most important,
the host can be manipulated prior to the transfer of the anticancer
cells to provide an optimal tumor microenvironment free of in vivo
suppressive factors.125 Studies have shown that the transfer of cultured lymphocytes with antiviral activity can prevent Epstein-Barr
virus (EBV) infections as well as the subsequent development of
posttransplant lymphoproliferative diseases. Cultured lymphocytes
have been used for the treatment of patients with established EBVinduced lymphomas.126
The best evidence for the ability of adoptive cell transfer to successfully treat patients with solid tumors comes from the treatment
of patients with metastatic melanoma. A diagram that describes the
nature of this treatment is shown in Figure 14.6. In patients with

Figure 14.6 Diagram of the adoptive cell therapy
of patients with metastatic melanoma. Tumors
are resected and individual cultures are grown
and tested for antitumor reactivity. Optimal
cultures are expanded in vitro and reinfused
into the autologous patient who had received a
preparative lymphodepleting chemotherapy.

metastatic melanoma, TILs can be obtained from resected tumor
deposits and individual cultures tested to identify those with optimal anticancer activity.124,127 These cells are then expanded ex vivo
and reinfused along with IL-2, which is the requisite growth factor
required for the survival and persistence of these cells. The administration of a preparative lymphodepleting chemotherapy regimen,
consisting of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine with or without
2 or 12 Gy total body irradiation, could substantially enhance the
survival and persistence of the transferred cells and increase their
in vivo antitumor effectiveness.128,129 In a series of three pilot trials
with 93 patients, objective responses were seen in 49% to 72% of
patients.5,130 Of the 93 patients, 20 (22%) experienced a complete
regression of all metastatic melanoma. Only 1 of these 20 patients
has recurred, and the remaining patients have ongoing complete
regressions from 80 to over 104 months (Table 14.3, Fig. 14.7).

TA B L E 1 4 . 3
Cell Transfer Therapy
Treatment

Total

PR

CR

OR

Number of Patients (Percentage) (Duration in Months)
No TBI

43

16 (37%)
(84, 36, 29, 28, 14, 12, 11, 7, 7, 7, 7, 4, 4, 2, 2, 2)

5 (12%)
(114+, 112+, 111+, 97+, 86+)

21 (49%)

200 TBI

25

8 (32%)
(14, 9, 6, 6, 5, 4, 3, 3)

5 (20%)
(101+, 98+, 93+, 90+, 70+)

13 (52%)

1,200 TBI

25

8 (32%)
(21, 13, 7, 6, 6, 5, 3, 2)

10 (40%)
(81+, 78+, 77+, 72+, 72+, 71+, 71+, 70+, 70+, 19)

18 (72%)

Note: 20 complete responses: 19 ongoing at 70 to 114 months.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 14 Cancer Immunotherapy

167

Survival of Patients with Metastatic Melanoma
Treated with Autologus Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes and IL-2

1.0
0.9

CR (n = 20)

0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2

PR (n = 32)

0.1
0.0

NR (n = 41)
0

6

12

18

24

30

36 42 48 54 60 66
Survival Time in Months

72

The 5-year survival of these 93 patients was 29% and was similar
regardless of the prior treatments that these patients had received.
Extensive genomic studies have shown that TILs that mediate
complete cancer regressions recognize mutated epitopes presented
by the cancer.52 The use of exomic sequencing combined with
in vitro tests of antitumor activity can be used to select for T-cell
populations reactive against the cancer. This approach has now
been utilized to identify T cells used to successfully treat a patient
with chemotherapy-refractory cholangiocarcinoma and provides a
blueprint for the application of cell transfer therapy for a variety of
common epithelial cancers.54
The difficulty in obtaining TILs with antitumor activity from
cancers other than melanoma has also led to the development of
approaches using lymphocytes genetically modified using retroviral transduction to insert antitumor T-cell receptors into the normal lymphocytes of patients.131

Genetic Modification of Lymphocytes for Use
in Adoptive Cell Therapy: Basic Principles and
Applications to Solid Tumors
Efforts are in progress to genetically engineer autologous PBMCs
through the introduction of exogenous high avidity receptors that
specifically recognize tumor antigens (Fig. 14.8). These cells can
then be expanded to large numbers in vitro and be readministered
back to the patient similar to TILs in order to mediate tumor regression. The use of gene-modified cells for ACT has resulted in
objective clinical responses for a variety of cancer histologies including melanoma, synovial sarcoma, and CD19-positive B-cell
malignancies.6,131–133
There are two key requirements necessary for the use of genemodified cells for the treatment of solid cancer. The first is the selection of an appropriate gene transfer method in order to achieve
high receptor expression levels in the transferred T cells. For this
discussion, we will consider both nonviral and viral-based gene
delivery platforms. Generally speaking, there are two categories
of nonviral gene transfer, chemical and physical. Chemical gene
transfer involves the use of positively charged delivery vehicle
such as calcium phosphate, cationic lipids, or polymers to form
DNA complexes capable of entering a cell through endocytosis.134
These reagents benefit from their ease of manufacture and ability to form complexes with large DNA sequences; however, low
transfection efficiency of human T cells continues to be an issue.

78

84

90

96 102

Figure 14.7 Survival curves of 93 patients treated
with adoptive cell transfer using autologous TIL. The
results of three consecutive trials using different
preparative regimens have been combined in this
analysis. Of 20 patients who achieved a complete
cancer regression, only one has recurred with a
median follow-up of over 8 years.5

Physical methods for gene delivery may involve direct delivery of
DNA into a cell via microinjection or indirect DNA uptake via
electroporation.135 Electroporation of messenger RNA (mRNA)
can achieve high levels of protein expression in cells, comparable to many of the viral-mediated gene delivery systems (gammaretroviral or lentiviral).135,136 High-throughput electroporators
should allow one to gene modify large numbers of T cells ex
vivo.137mRNA electroporation appears to be most suited for this
application, because there is significant loss of cell viability following electroporation of large amounts of DNA.136 The electroporation of mRNA, although gaining traction as a means of redirecting
T cell specificity,137 provides for transient receptor expression because the mRNA will degrade over time. Currently, it is not clear if
stable long-term receptor expression is required to mediate tumor
regression. However, the main criticism of the non-viral methods
described is the lack of stable gene transfer. To overcome this problem, many investigators are now using transposons such as sleeping
beauty or piggybac.138 Transposons are mobile DNA gene delivery
elements encoding a gene of interest (i.e., TCR or chimeric antigen receptors [CAR]) that can randomly integrate into the genome
in the presence of the transposase enzyme, thereby allowing for
stable gene expression. This technology is currently being used for
the ACT of CAR-modified cells targeting B-cell malignancies (see
Fig. 14.8B).139
Viral-mediated gene delivery is currently the most common method for the genetic modification of immune cells for
cancer ACT. Retroviridae is a family of RNA viruses that, upon
entry into cells, undergo a process called reverse transcription
whereby the viral RNA is converted into DNA as it stably integrates into the host genome. The two most common retroviral
vector systems are based on the gammaretrovirus, Moloney murine leukemia virus (MLV), and the lentivirus, HIV type 1 (see
Fig. 14.8B). Gammaretroviral vectors have been used in human
clinical applications for over 20 years. The only reported toxicity associated with gammaretroviral engineering of human cells
involved the retroviral transduction of hematopoietic stem cells
for the treatment of children with severe combined immunodeficiency syndrome (X-SCID).140 There have been no reports of
clonal outgrowth following the retroviral transduction of mature
T lymphocytes in adults. Highly active vectors have been generated from a variety of murine retroviruses including spleen focus
forming virus (SFFV), myeloproliferative sarcoma virus (MPSV),
and the murine stem cell virus (MSCV).141–147 In most cases, these
vectors are replication incompetent, but non–self-inactivating in

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Proportion Surviving

0.8

168

Cancer Therapeutics
TCR

CAR

Vα

Vβ

Cα

Cα

VL

VH

VH

VL

VH

VL

Hinge/TM

TM

TM

TM

Cytoplasmic
domain

CD3ζ

Signaling
domain 1

Signaling
domain 1
Signaling
domain 2

CD3ζ

CD3ζ
1st

Generation:
Fusion protein:
Alpha

2A

2nd

3rd

Fusion protein:
Leader

Beta

VH

G4S

VL

Exo

TM

T-cell signaling

A
Transfer vector:
Transposon:

IR/DR

γ-retrovirus:

U3-R-U5

Promoter
SD

ψ+

TCR/CAR

SA
TCR/CAR

5′ LTR
Lentivirus:

U3-R-U5
5′ LTR

B

IR/DR

U3-R-U5
3′ LTR

cPPT

ψ+

Promoter
RRE

ΔU3-R-U5

TCR/CAR
oPRE

3′ SIN LTR

Figure 14.8 Genetic modification of T cells for the treatment of solid cancers. (A) In order to gene-modify T cells to confer
stable tumor-specific reactivity, one can transduce T cells with an exogenous TCR derived from a naturally occurring or murine
T-cell clone or a CAR derived from a tumor-specific monoclonal antibody. The TCR or CAR is synthesized as fusion proteins
and inserted into the appropriate gene transfer vector. (B) Depending on the transfer vector selected, the T cells are then
electroporated (transposon) or transduced (viral vector) to confer tumor specificity. Vα, Vβ, and Cα, Cβ, TCR alpha and beta
chain variable and constant regions, respectively; TM, transmembrane domain; VH and VL, immunoglobulin variable regions;
2A and G4S, linker sequences; Exo, extracellular spacer domain; SD, splice donor; SA, splice acceptor; Ψ, packaging signal;
LTR, long terminal repeat; U3, unique 3′ region; R, repeat region; U5, unique 5′ region; RRE, rev response element; cPPT,
central polypurine tract; wPRE, woodchuck hepatitis virus posttranscriptional regulatory element; ΔU3, truncated unique 3′
region; SIN, self-inactivating.

that the promoter for transgene expression is derived from the viral
long terminal repeat (LTR). Self-inactivating (SIN) gammaretroviral vectors have been developed that require an internal promoter to drive transgene expression. The advantage of non-SIN
vectors is the ability to use a variety of retroviral packaging cell
lines (PG13, Phoenix) engineered to constitutively express gag
(capsid protein), pol (reverse transcriptase, integrase, and RNase
H enzymes) and env (envelope protein). Transduction of these
packaging lines with a non-SIN retroviral vector encoding a transgene allows for the generation of a stable packaging cell line that
constitutively releases vector into the medium. This platform is
easily scaled up to support large-scale vector production efforts. An
alternative to the gammaretroviral vector platform is the lentiviral
vector platform. There are some advantages to selecting a lentiviral
vector for T-cell engineering in that one can transduce large numbers of minimally stimulated T cells,148 transfer more complex and
larger gene expression cassettes, and yield a potentially safer chromosomal integration profile as compared to gammaretroviruses.
However, there has been at least one instance of clonal outgrowth

following lentiviral vector transduction of CD34+ stem cells.149
Therefore, more data will be needed to better understand the risk
of insertional mutagenesis associated with the use of lentiviral vectors. The major disadvantage with using lentiviral vectors for ACT
is the lack of a robust packaging cell line, which requires transient
vector production and is difficult to scale up.
The first successful application ACT involved the use of
autologous T cells genetically modified with a conventional
αβ TCR targeting MART-1 for the treatment of patients
with melanoma.131 The success of this approach relies on the
ability to identify naturally occurring TCRs with sufficiently high
avidity for the tumor antigen. For this clinical trial, a tumor-specific TCR was cloned directly from melanoma TIL. Exogenous
TCR can also be generated from human PBMC following a
variety of in vitro sensitization techniques or immunization of
transgenic mice expressing HLA molecules. A T-cell clone expressing a low avidity TCR recognizing MART-1 was isolated
and the α and β chains cloned into a gammaretroviral vector.
The objective response rate from this trial was 13% (2/15).131 In

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

a follow-up trial with a higher avidity TCR that was cloned from
the same melanoma TIL, the objective response rate increased to
30% (6/20).150 However, patients in this trial experienced significant on-target, off-tumor toxicity with the destruction of normal
melanocytes in the skin, eye, and ear. These trials showed the
potential to use ACT for the treatment of solid cancers, but also
highlight the importance of selecting appropriate tumor antigens
to target in order to minimize normal tissue toxicities. Perhaps a
better class of antigen to target for ACT would be the cancer testes antigens (CTA) that are expressed only on germ cells during
fetal development and then reexpressed on cancers but not other
normal tissues with the exception of the testes (see Table 14.1).
Because the testes do not express class I MHC molecules, they
are protected from any adverse immune response.151 NY-ESO-1
is a CTA overexpressed on melanoma, as well as a variety of solid
epithelial cancers.152–154 A high-avidity TCR was developed targeting NY-ESO-1 and patients with metastatic melanoma or synovial cell sarcoma were treated following adoptive cell transfer
using autologous lymphocytes transduced with a gammaretrovirus encoding this receptor.6 In updated results from this trial,
8 of 17 patients (47%) with melanoma showed objective tumor
responses, two of which were complete responses and ongoing at
51 and 48 months after treatment. Nine of 19 patients (47%) with
synovial cell sarcoma showed objective tumor response, only
one of which is complete and ongoing at 12 months. Of note,
no toxicities were observed in any of these trials. Thus, targeting
NY-ESO-1 and other CTAs is an attractive strategy for the application of ACT for the treatment of solid cancers (see Table 14.4
for other trials conducted at the National Cancer Institute,
Surgery Branch).
Redirection of T-cell specificity using conventional TCR is constrained by HLA restriction, which limits treatment only to patients
expressing a particular MHC haplotype. An alternate approach is
to use CAR comprised of an monoclonal antibody single chain
variable fragment (scFv) fused in frame to T-cell intracellular
signaling domains capable of T-cell activation following antigenspecific binding (see Fig. 14.8A).155 CARs, unlike conventional
TCRs, are not MHC restricted but are limited by the requirement
for the tumor antigen to be expressed on the cell surface. CARs
can also recognize carbohydrate and lipid moieties further expanding their application. To date, there has been limited success using

CAR-based ACT for the treatment of solid cancers. In 2008, the
first successful CAR trial targeting the disialoganglioside, GD2,
for the treatment of neuroblastoma was reported.156 In this trial, 4
out of 8 patients (50%) with evaluable tumor experienced tumor
regression or necrosis with one complete responder. In that same
year, a second CAR trial targeting CD20 on non-Hodgkin and
mantle cell lymphomas was reported.157 Of the 7 patients treated,
one achieved a partial response. Much greater success has now
been achieved using a CAR targeting CD19, a molecule expressed
on normal B cells and virtually all B-cell lymphomas. In a trial
conducted at the National Cancer Institute, Surgery Branch,
Kochenderfer et al.132 first reported that autologous T cells expressing a CAR targeting CD19 was able to mediate tumor regression
in a patient with B-cell lymphoma (hematologic malignancies will
be discussed in more detail elsewhere). Successfully expanding
CAR-based ACT to other cancer histologies has been limited by
the inability to identify suitable tumor antigens to target. At the
National Cancer Institute, Surgery Branch, there are active clinical programs with CAR targeting the mutated epidermal growth
factor receptor, EGFRvIII, expressed on approximately 40% of
glioblastomas as well as head and neck cancers158; the vascular endothelial growth factor-2 receptor, VEGFR-2, expressed on tumor
vasculature159; and mesothelin, expressed on the mesothelial lining of the pleura, peritoneum, and pericardium, but overexpressed
on mesothelioma, pancreatic, and ovarian cancers.160 These trials
are currently accruing patients; however, no objective clinical responses have been observed to date. A summary of clinical trials at
the National Cancer Institute, Surgery Branch using gene-modified autologous T cells for ACT are shown in Table 14.4. ACT
can mediate the regression of large, established tumors in humans.
Efforts to identify and specifically target novel tumor antigens are
currently underway with the hope that ACT using gene-modified
T cells will develop into an effective treatment for patients with a
variety of solid cancers.

Genetic Modification of Lymphocytes to Treat
Hematologic Malignancies
Immunologic therapies can be useful treatments for some hematologic malignancies as demonstrated by the effectiveness of mono-

TA B L E 1 4 . 4
Surgery Branch, National Cancer Institute Program for the Application of
Cell Transfer Therapy to a Wide Variety of Human Cancers
Receptor

Type

169

Cancers

Status

MART-1

TCR

Melanoma

Closed

gp100

TCR

Melanoma

Closed

NY-ESO-1

TCR

Epithelial & sarcomas

Accruing

CEA

TCR

Colorectal

Closed

CD19

CAR

Lymphomas

Accruing

VEGFR2

CAR

All cancers

Accruing

2G-1

TCR

Kidney

Accruing

IL‐12

Cytokine

Adjuvant for all receptors

Accruing

MAGE-A3a

TCR

Epithelial

In development

EGFRvIII

CAR

Glioblastoma

Accruing

SSX-2

TCR

Epithelial

In development

Mesothelin

CAR

Pancreas & mesothelioma

Accruing

HPV16 (E6&7)

TCR

Cervical, oropharyngeal

In development

a
MAGE-A3 TCRs; restricted by HLA-A2, A1, Cw7, DP4—covers 80% of patients.
EGFR, epidermal growth factor receptor; VEGFR2, vascular endothelial growth factor 2.

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Chapter 14 Cancer Immunotherapy

170

Cancer Therapeutics

clonal antibodies in treating B-cell malignancies and the fact that
allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (alloHSCT)
can cure a variety of hematologic malignancies.161–167 The results
with monoclonal antibodies and alloHSCT clearly prove that
immunologic therapies have significant activity against hematologic malignancies, but monoclonal antibodies are not curative
as single agents,162,166 and alloHSCT has a substantial transplantrelated mortality rate due to infections and an immunologic
attack against normal tissues known as graft versus host disease
(GVHD).163,165 The proven curative potential of alloHSCT and
the effectiveness of autologous T-cell transfer therapies for melanoma have encouraged the development of autologous T-cell
therapies for hematologic malignancies.125,129,163,165 Genetically
engineering T cells to specifically recognize antigens expressed by
malignant cells has emerged as a very promising strategy for cancer
immunotherapy.125,129,168
T cells can be genetically engineered to express either of two
types of receptors, CARs168–171 or natural TCRs.6,131,172 T cells
expressing either a CAR or TCR gain the ability to specifically
recognize an antigen.171,172 CARs are artificial fusion proteins that
incorporate antigen recognition domains and T-cell activation
domains.168,170,172 The antigen recognition domains are most often
derived from monoclonal antibodies.168,170,172 Antigen recognition by TCRs is major histocompatibility complex restricted.125,128
In contrast to TCRs, recognition of antigens by CARs is not
dependent on MHC molecules. An advantage of TCRs over CARs
is that TCRs can recognize intracellular antigens, whereas CARs
can only recognize cell-surface antigens.

Chimeric Antigen Receptors
CARs targeting hematopoietic antigens have been extensively
studied in preclinical experiments and early-stage clinical
trials.168,170,172,173 For a protein to be a promising target for CARexpressing T cells, it should be uniformly expressed on the ma-

lignant cells being targeted but not expressed on essential normal
cells. Many cell-surface proteins with restricted normal tissue
expression patterns have been identified on malignant hematologic cells, and CARs targeting many of these proteins are under
development (Table 14.5).
Many factors can affect CAR T-cell therapies. The types of
gene-therapy vectors encoding the DNA of the CAR could be an
important factor. The types of vectors currently being used in clinical trials of CAR T cells are gammaretroviruses, lentiviruses, and
transposon-based systems.132,133,174–181 The design of the CAR fusion
protein is another important factor. CAR fusion proteins include
an antigen-recognition domain that is most often derived from an
antibody, costimulatory domains such as CD28 and 4-1BB, and
T-cell activation domains that are usually derived from the CD3z
molecule.168,170,171,182 Other factors that could impact the effectiveness of CAR T-cell therapies include the cell culture method used
to prepare the cells and administration of chemotherapy or radiation therapy prior to the CAR T-cell infusions.170,178,179 In mouse
models, a profound enhancement of the antimalignancy activity
of infused T cells occurs when the T-cell infusions are preceded
by lymphocyte-depleting chemotherapy or radiation therapy.183–185
Because chemotherapy can have a direct antimalignancy effect
against hematologic malignancies, the administration of chemotherapy prior to infusions of T cells is a confounding factor that
must always be kept in mind when interpreting the results of clinical trials of T-cell therapies.

Anti-CD19 Chimeric Antigen Receptors
CD19 is an appealing target antigen for CARs because CD19 is
expressed on almost all malignant B cells, but CD19 is not expressed on normal cells except B cells.186 The first preclinical studies of anti-CD19 CARs utilized either gammaretrovirus vectors174
or plasmid electroporation176 to insert genes encoding anti-CD19
CARs into human T cells. These studies and subsequent preclinical work by other groups showed that T cells expressing anti-CD19

TA B L E 1 4 . 5
Hematologic Antigens Targeted by Genetically-Modified T-Cells
Antigen

Malignancy Expressing Antigen

Targeted by CAR or TCR

References

CD19

B-cell malignancies

CAR

17, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25,
26, 34, 35, 55, 56

CD20

B-cell malignancies

CAR

36, 37, 38

CD22

B-cell malignancies

CAR

39, 40

CD23

B-cell malignancies

CAR

41

ROR1

B-cell malignancies

CAR

42

Kappa light chain

B-cell malignancies

CAR

43

B-cell maturation antigen
(BCMA)

Multiple myeloma

CAR

44

Lewis Y antigen

Multiple myeloma and acute
myeloid leukemia (AML)

CAR

45, 46

CD123

AML

CAR

47

CD30

Hodgkin lymphoma

CAR

48, 49

CD70

Hodgkin lymphoma

CAR

50

Wilms tumor -1 (WT1)

AML and acute lymphoid
leukemia (ALL)

TCR

51

Aurora kinase-A

AML and chronic myeloid
leukemia (CML)

TCR

52

Hyaluronan-mediated
motility receptor
(HMMR)

AML and ALL

TCR

53

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 14 Cancer Immunotherapy

Before treatment

32 days after infusion

132 days after infusion

645 days after infusion

Figure 14.9 Computed tomography (CT) scans show regression of
adenopathy in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) after
treatment with chemotherapy followed by an infusion of autologous
anti-CD19 CAR T cells. The time after the cell infusion of each CT scan
is indicated. The arrow points to a large lymph node mass that resolved
completely over time. (Reproduced from Kochenderfer JN, Rosenberg
SA. Treating B-Cell cancer with T cells expressing anti-CD19 chimeric
antigen receptors. Nature Rev Clin Oncology 2013;10:267-276, with
permission.)

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

CARs could specifically recognize and kill CD19-expressing
malignant B cells in vitro and in vivo.174–176,187 These preclinical
studies compared many different CAR signaling moieties, which
led most groups to utilize CARs with T-cell activation domains
from the CD3z molecule and costimulatory molecules from
either CD28 or 4-1BB (CD137).165,180,182,187,188 Preclinical studies
showed that lymphocyte-depleting radiation therapy administered
before anti-CD19 CAR T-cell infusions was critical to the antimalignancy activity of CAR T cells.183 The addition of lymphocytedepleting radiation therapy prior to infusions of anti-CD19 CAR
T cells increased the percentage of mice cured of lymphoma by
the CAR T cells from 0% to 100%.183 Preclinical experiments with
anti-CD19 CARs have led to several early-phase clinical trials.
The first clinical trial to demonstrate in vivo activity of antiCD19 CAR T cells in humans was conducted in the Surgery
Branch of the National Cancer Institute.132 The gammaretroviral
vector used in this trial encoded a CAR with a CD28 costimulatory
domain. Patients treated on this clinical trial received cyclophosphamide and fludarabine chemotherapy followed by an infusion of anti-CD19 CAR T cells and a short course of intravenous
IL-2.132,181 Clear antigen-specific activity of the anti-CD19 CAR
T cells was demonstrated because blood B cells were selectively
eliminated from four of the seven evaluable patients for several
months.181 The duration of B-cell depletion in these patients was
much longer than the duration of B-cell depletion caused by the
chemotherapy that the patients received.132,181 This study also generated evidence of an antimalignancy effect by the anti-CD19 CAR
T cells because six of seven evaluable patients with advanced B-cell
malignancies obtained either complete remissions or partial remissions (Fig. 14.9).181 One of these remissions is ongoing 45 months
after treatment, and another remission is ongoing 31 months after
treatment. Significant toxicity, including hypotension and neurologic toxicity, occurred during this clinical trial.181 The severity of
these toxicities correlated with the levels of serum inflammatory
cytokines.181 Except for one patient who died with influenza pneumonia, the toxicities were transient, with all toxicities resolving
within 3 weeks of the anti-CD19 CAR T-cell infusions.181
Investigators at the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center
treated nine patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)
or acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) by infusing T cells that
expressed a CAR with a CD28 costimulatory domain.179 The gene
therapy vector used in this work was a gammaretrovirus.179 None
of three patients treated with CAR T cells alone experienced a
regression of leukemia, and CLL regressed in one of four evaluable patients treated with cyclophosphamide followed by an infusion of CAR T cells. Using the same CAR, the same group went on
to treat five patients with ALL.173 Patients received chemotherapy
followed by an infusion of anti-CD19 CAR T cells. Four patients
had detectable leukemia prior to their CAR T-cell infusions, and
all of these patients became minimal residual disease negative after
infusion of CAR T cells. Four of five patients on this trial rapidly
underwent allogeneic stem cell transplantation after their CAR
T-cell infusions.173
Investigators at the Baylor College of Medicine conducted
clinical trials of anti-CD19 CAR T cells in which each patient
simultaneously received infusions of two types of anti-CD19 CAR
T cells.189 One type of T cell expressed a CAR expressing a CD28
costimulatory domain. The other type of T cell was identical except that the CAR it expressed lacked a CD28 domain. Compared
to the T cells lacking a CD28 moiety, the T cells expressing a CAR
with a CD28 moiety had higher peak blood levels and longer in
vivo persistence.189 Patients on this trial did not receive chemotherapy, and there were no remissions of malignancy or long-term
B-cell depletion.189
Investigators at the University of Pennsylvania reported results
from three patients with CLL who were treated with chemotherapy
followed by infusions of anti-CD19 CAR-expressing T cells.133,180
The CAR used in this study was encoded by a lentiviral vector and
contained a costimulatory domain from the 4-1BB molecule. Two

171

172

Cancer Therapeutics

of the three reported patients obtained prolonged complete remissions.180 This same CAR design was subsequently evaluated in a clinical trial enrolling patients with ALL.190 One ALL patient obtained a
prolonged complete remission but also experienced significant toxicity that was associated with elevated levels of serum cytokines.190
Overall, the early results with anti-CD19 CAR T cells show
that this strategy holds great promise to improve the treatment of
B-cell malignancies, but anti-CD19 CAR T-cell infusions are also
associated with significant toxicity that is usually of short duration.
Future progress will require decreasing the toxicity of anti-CD19
CAR T cells while maintaining or enhancing their antimalignancy
activity. Parameters that are being studied in an effort to improve
anti-CD19 CAR therapy include vector selection, CAR design,
cell culture methods, and clinical application.

Chimeric Antigen Receptors and T-Cell
Receptors Targeting Hematologic Antigens
Other than CD19
CARs and TCRs targeting several hematologic antigens other
than CD19 have been evaluated in preclinical or clinical studies. Except for CD19, the B-cell antigen CD20 has been the
hematologic antigen most extensively studied as a target of CAR
T cells.191–193 Plasmid electroporation, which is not an optimal
method of T-cell genetic modification, was used to transfer the
anti-CD20 CAR gene to T cells in these studies. In one trial of
anti-CD20 CAR T cells, patients received chemotherapy followed
by infusions of T cells expressing a CAR without costimulatory
domains.192 One of seven patients obtained a partial remission that
lasted 3 months. In a second trial, patients received chemotherapy
followed by anti-CD20 CAR T cells expressing a CAR with both
CD28 and 4-1BB costimulatory domains; in this trial, the only
evaluable patient obtained a partial remission.193
CARs targeting other B-cell antigens including CD22,157,194
CD23,195 receptor tyrosine kinase–like orphan receptor-1
(ROR1),196 and the immunoglobulin kappa light chain197 have
been evaluated in preclinical studies. CARs for treating multiple
myeloma are currently being developed. B-cell maturation antigen
(BCMA) is expressed on normal and malignant plasma cells, but
it is not known to be expressed on other normal cells except for
a small subset of mature B cells.198 CARs targeting BCMA have
undergone preclinical testing, and a clinical trial of an anti-BCMA
CAR will open soon.198 Preclinical studies have been performed
on CARs targeting the Lewis Y antigen as a treatment for multiple
myeloma and acute myeloid leukemia (AML),199 and activity
against AML was recently demonstrated in a phase I clinical trial
of a CAR targeting the Lewis Y antigen.200 CARs targeting the
S E L E C T E D
The full reference list can be accessed at lwwhealthlibrary.com/oncology.
3. Attia P, Phan GQ, Maker AV, et al. Autoimmunity correlates with tumor
regression in patients with metastatic melanoma treated with anti-cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte antigen-4. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:6043–6053.
4. Topalian SL, Hodi FS, Brahmer JR, et al. Safety, activity, and immune
correlates of anti-PD-1 antibody in cancer. N Engl J Med 2012;366:
2443–2454.
5. Rosenberg SA, Yang JC, Sherry RM, et al. Durable complete responses in
heavily pretreated patients with metastatic melanoma using T-cell transfer
immunotherapy. Clin Cancer Res 2011;17:4550–4557.
6. Robbins PF, Morgan RA, Feldman SA, et al. Tumor regression in patients
with metastatic synovial sarcoma and melanoma using genetically engineered
lymphocytes reactive with NY-ESO-1. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:917–924.
8. Van der Bruggen P, Traversari C, Chomez P, et al. A gene encoding an antigen recognized by cytolytic T lymphocytes on a human melanoma. Science
1991;254:1643–1647.
12. Morgan RA, Chinnasamy N, Abate-Daga D, et al. Cancer regression and
neurological toxicity following anti-MAGE-A3 TCR gene therapy. J Immunother 2013;36:133–151.

CD123 protein are undergoing preclinical testing for potential
use against AML.201 For Hodgkin lymphoma, CARs have been
developed that target the CD30 protein and the CD70 protein,
and anti-CD30 CARs are entering early-phase clinical trials.202–204
MHC-restricted TCRs targeting some antigens expressed on
hematologic malignancies have undergone preclinical testing, but
TCRs for treating hematologic malignancies are at a much earlier
stage of development than CARs (see Table 14.1). TCRs targeting
the Wilms tumor antigen-1 (WT1) are under development to treat
ALL and AML.205 Aurora kinase-A–specific TCRs and hyaluronan-mediated motility receptor (HMMR)-specific TCRs are under
preclinical development as leukemia treatments.206,207

T-Cell Gene Therapy in the Setting of
Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell
Transplantation
A leading cause of death among patients undergoing alloHSCT
is relapse of malignancy, and alloHSCT is often complicated by
GVHD.164,165,208 Therefore, a central goal in the field of alloHSCT
is to increase the antimalignancy activity of allogeneic T cells without worsening GVHD. One way to accomplish this goal might be
to genetically modify T cells to give them the ability to specifically
recognize antigens expressed by malignant cells. CARs are wellsuited for this task.
Two groups have recently reported promising early results treating B-cell malignancies after alloHSCT with allogeneic donorderived T cells expressing anti-CD19 CARs.209,210 Investigators at
the National Cancer Institute treated 10 patients with B-cell malignancies that persisted despite alloHSCT and standard donor
lymphocyte infusions.209 Although patients on this trial did not receive chemotherapy before their T-cell infusions, 3 of 10 patients
had objective regressions of their malignancies, and 1 patient with
CLL remains in CR more than 1 year after treatment.209 No patient
developed GVHD after receiving allogeneic anti-CD19 CAR T
cells on this trial.209 Investigators at the Baylor College of Medicine
reported objective antimalignancy responses in two of six patients
with relapsed malignancy after infusion of donor-derived allogeneic
anti-CD19 CAR T cells that were also specific for viral antigens.210
In an effort to improve the safety of infusions of allogeneic
lymphocytes by limiting GVHD, investigators have genetically
modified T cells to express suicide genes that cause death of
the T cells containing the suicide gene when certain drugs are
administered.211–214 Suicide gene–expressing T cells are infused
to treat malignancy after alloHSCT. This approach has been
tested in clinical trials, and rapid abrogation of GVHD has been
demonstrated.211,213,214
R E F E R E N C E S
44. Parkhurst MR, Yang JC, Langan RC, et al. T cells targeting carcinoembryonic
antigen can mediate regression of metastatic colorectal cancer but induce
severe transient colitis. Mol Ther 2011;19:620–626.
52. Robbins PF, Lu YC, El-Gamil M, et al. Mining exomic sequencing data to
identify mutated antigens recognized by adoptively transferred tumor-reactive
T cells. Nat Med 2013;19:747–752.
54. Tran E, Turcotte S, Gros A, et al. Cancer immunotherapy based on
mutation-specific CD4+ T cells in a patient with epithelial cancer. Science
2014;344:641–645.
56. Villa LL, Costa RL, Petta CA, et al. Prophylactic quadrivalent human
papillomavirus (types 6, 11, 16, and 18) L1 virus-like particle vaccine in
young women: a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled multicentre
phase II efficacy trial. Lancet Oncol 2005;6:271–278.
57. Wolchok JD, Hoos A, O’Day S, et al. Guidelines for the evaluation of
immune therapy activity in solid tumors: immune-related response criteria.
Clin Cancer Res 2009;15:7412–7420.
59. Morgan DA, Ruscetti FW, Gallo R. Selective in vitro growth of T lymphocytes
from normal human bone marrows. Science 1976;193:1007–1008.
62. Taniguchi T, Matsui H, Fujita T. Structure and expression of a cloned cDNA
for human interleukin-2. Nature 1983;302:305–307.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

63. Rosenberg SA, Grimm EA, McGrogan M, et al. Biological activity of recombinant
human interleukin-2 produced in Escherichia coli. Science 1984;223:1412–1414.
64. Rosenberg SA, Mule JJ, Spiess PJ, et al. Regression of established pulmonary
metastases and subcutaneous tumor mediated by the systemic administration
of high dose recombinant IL-2. J Exp Med 1985;161:1169–1188.
65. Lotze MT, Matory YL, Ettinghausen SE, et al. In vivo administration of
purified human interleukin-2. II. Half life, immunologic effects and expansion of peripheral lymphoid cells in vivo with recombinant IL-2. J Immunol
1985;135:2865–2875.
66. Rosenberg SA, Lotze MT, Muul LM, et al. Observations on the systemic
administration of autologous lymphokine-activated killer cells and recombinant interleukin-2 to patients with metastatic cancer. N Engl J Med
1985;313:1485–1492.
67. Rosenberg SA, Lotze MT, Yang JC, et al. Prospective randomized trial of
high-dose interleukin-2 alone or in conjunction with lymphokine-activated
killer cells for the treatment of patients with advanced cancer. J Natl Cancer
Inst 1993;85:622–632.
70. Fyfe G, Fisher R, Sznol M, et al. Results of treatment of 255 patients
with metastatic renal cell carcinoma who received high dose proleukin
interleukin-2 therapy. J Clin Oncol 1995;13:688–696.
72. Yang JC, Sherry RM, Steinberg SM, et al. Randomized study of high-dose
and low-dose interleukin-2 in patients with metastatic renal cancer. J Clin
Oncol 2003;21:3127–3132.
73. Atkins MB, Lotze MT, Dutcher JP, et al. High-dose recombinant interleukin 2
therapy for patients with metastatic melanoma: analysis of 270 patients treated
between 1985 and 1993. J Clin Oncol 1999l;17:2105–2116.
76. Schwartzentruber DJ, Lawson DH, Richards JM, et al. gp100 peptide
vaccine and interleukin-2 in patients with advanced melanoma. N Engl J
Med 2011;364:2119–2127.
77. Prieto PA, Yang JC, Sherry RM, et al. CTLA-4 blockade with ipilimumab:
long-term follow-up of 177 patients with metastatic melanoma. Clin Cancer
Res 2012;18:2039–2047.
78. Phan GQ, Attia P, Steinberg SM, et al. Factors associated with response to
high-dose interleukin-2 in patients with metastatic melanoma. J Clin Oncol
2001;19:3477–3482.
85. Schwartzentruber DJ. Guidelines for the safe administration of high-dose
interleukin-2. J Immunother 2001;24:287–293.
86. Kammula US, White DE, Rosenberg SA. Trends in the safety of high dose
bolus interleukin-2 administration in patients with metastatic cancer. Cancer
1998;83:797–805.
93. Phan GQ, Yang JC, Sherry RM, et al. Cancer regression and autoimmunity induced by cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 blockade in
patients with metastatic melanoma. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2003;100:
8372–8377.
98. Hodi FS, O’Day SJ, McDermott DF, et al. Improved survival with ipilimumab
in patients with metastatic melanoma. N Engl J Med 2010;363:711–723.
100. Wolchok JD, Weber JS, Maio M, et al. Four-year survival rates for patients
with metastatic melanoma who received ipilimumab in phase II clinical
trials. Ann Oncol 2013;24:2174–2180.
101. Yang JC, Hughes M, Kammula U, et al. Ipilimumab (anti-CTLA4 antibody)
causes regression of metastatic renal cell cancer associated with enteritis and
hypophysitis. J Immunother 2007;30:825–830.
107. Brahmer JR, Drake CG, Wollner I, et al. Phase I study of single-agent antiprogrammed death-1 (MDX-1106) in refractory solid tumors: safety, clinical
activity, pharmacodynamics, and immunologic correlates. J Clin Oncol
2010;28:3167–3175.
109. Topalian SL, Sznol M, McDermott DF, et al. Survival, durable tumor remission, and long-term safety in patients with advanced melanoma receiving
nivolumab. J Clin Oncol 2014;32:1020–1030.
110. Wolchok JD, Kluger H, Callahan MK, et al. Nivolumab plus ipilimumab in
advanced melanoma. N Engl J Med 2013;369:122–133.
112. Brahmer JR, Tykodi SS, Chow LQ, et al. Safety and activity of anti-PD-L1
antibody in patients with advanced cancer. N Engl J Med 2012;366:2455–2465.

173

114. Rosenberg SA, Yang JC, Restifo NP. Cancer immunotherapy: moving
beyond current vaccines. Nat Med 2004;10:909–915.
115. Klebanoff CA, Acquavella N, Yu Z, et al. Therapeutic cancer vaccines: are
we there yet? Immunol Rev 2011;239:27–44.
123. Kantoff PW, Higano CS, Shore ND, et al. Sipuleucel-T immunotherapy for
castration-resistant prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2010;363:422.
124. Rosenberg SA, Packard BS, Aebersold PM, et al. Use of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes and interleukin-2 in the immunotherapy of patients with metastatic
melanoma. Preliminary report. N Engl J Med 1988;319:1676–1680.
126. Rooney CM, Smith CA, Ng CY, et al. Infusion of cytotoxic T cells for the prevention and treatment of Epstein-Barr virus-induced lymphoma in allogeneic
transplant recipients. Blood 1998;92:1549–1555.
128. Dudley ME, Wunderlich JR, Robbins PF, et al. Cancer regression and
autoimmunity in patients after clonal repopulation with anti-tumor lymphocytes.
Science 2002;298:850–854.
130. Rosenberg SA. Cell transfer immunotherapy for metastatic solid cancer—
what clinicians need to know. Nat Rev Clin Oncol 2011;8:577–585.
131. Morgan RA, Dudley ME, Wunderlich JR, et al. Cancer regression in patients
after transfer of genetically engineered lymphocytes. Science 2006;314:
126–129.
132. Kochenderfer JN, Wilson WH, Janik E, et al. Eradication of B-lineage cells
and regression of lymphoma in a patient treated with autologous T cells
genetically engineered to recognize CD19. Blood 2010;116:4099–4102.
133. Porter DL, Levine BL, Kalos M, et al. Chimeric antigen receptor-modified
T cells in chronic lymphoid leukemia. N Engl J Med 2011;365:725–733.
136. Zhao Y, Zheng Z, Cohen CJ, et al. High-efficiency transfection of primary
human and mouse T lymphocytes using RNA electroporation. Mol Ther
2006;13:151–159.
140. Singh H, Huls H, Kebriaei P, et al. A new approach to gene therapy using
Sleeping Beauty to genetically modify clinical-grade T cells to target CD19.
Immunol Rev 2014;257:181–190.
150. Johnson LA, Morgan RA, Dudley ME, et al. Gene therapy with human and
mouse T-cell receptors mediates cancer regression and targets normal tissues
expressing cognate antigen. Blood 2009;114:535–546.
155. Gross G, Waks T, Eshhar Z. Expression of immunoglobulin-T-cell receptor
chimeric molecules as functional receptors with antibody-type specificity.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1989;86:10024–10028.
156. Pule MA, Savoldo B, Myers GD, et al. Virus-specific T cells engineered
to coexpress tumor-specific receptors: persistence and antitumor activity in
individuals with neuroblastoma. Nat Med 2008;14:1264–1270.
169. Eshhar Z, Waks T, Gross G, et al. Specific activation and targeting of
cytotoxic lymphocytes through chimeric single chains consisting of antibodybinding domains and the gamma or zeta subunits of the immunoglobulin
and T-cell receptors. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1993;90:720–724.
170. Kochenderfer JN, Rosenberg SA. Treating B-cell cancer with T cells expressing
anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptors. Nat Rev Clin Oncol 2013;10:267–276.
173. Brentjens RJ, Davila ML, Riviere I, et al. CD19-targeted T cells rapidly
induce molecular remissions in adults with chemotherapy-refractory acute
lymphoblastic leukemia. Sci Transl Med 2013;5:177ra38.
183. Kochenderfer JN, Yu Z, Frasheri D, et al. Adoptive transfer of syngeneic T cells
transduced with a chimeric antigen receptor that recognizes murine CD19
can eradicate lymphoma and normal B cells. Blood 2010;116:3875–3886.
190. Grupp SA, Kalos M, Barrett D, et al. Chimeric antigen receptor-modified
T cells for acute lymphoid leukemia. N Engl J Med 2013;368:1509–1518.
209. Kochenderfer JN, Dudley ME, Carpenter RO, et al. Donor-derived CD19targeted T cells cause regression of malignancy persisting after allogeneic
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Blood 2013;122:4129–4139.
213. Ciceri F, Bonini C, Stanghellini MT, et al. Infusion of suicide-gene-engineered
donor lymphocytes after family haploidentical haemopoietic stem-cell transplantation for leukaemia (the TK007 trial): a non-randomised phase I-II
study. Lancet Oncol 2009;10:489–500.
214. Di Stasi A, Tey SK, Dotti G, et al. Inducible apoptosis as a safety switch for
adoptive cell therapy. N Engl J Med 2011;365:1673–1683.

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Chapter 14 Cancer Immunotherapy

15

Pharmacokinetics and
Pharmacodynamics of
Anticancer Drugs

Alex Sparreboom and Sharyn D. Baker

INTRODUCTION

Absorption

Drug selection and therapy considerations in oncology were
originally solely based on observations of the effects produced.1
To overcome some of the limitations of this empirical approach
and to answer questions related to considerations of dose, frequency, and duration of drug treatment, it is necessary to understand the events that follow drug administration. Preclinical
in vitro and in vivo studies have shown that the magnitude of
antitumor response is a function of the concentration of drug,2
and this has led to the suggestion that the therapeutic objective
can be achieved by maintaining an adequate concentration at
the site of action for the duration of therapy.3 However, drugs
are rarely directly administered at their sites of action. Indeed,
most anticancer drugs are given intravenously or orally, and
yet are expected to act in the brain, lungs, or elsewhere. Drugs
must, therefore, move from the site of administration to the site
of action and, moreover, distribute to all other tissues including
organs that eliminate them from the body, such as the kidneys
and liver. To administer drugs optimally, knowledge is needed
not only of the mechanisms of drug absorption, distribution, and
elimination, but also of the kinetics of these processes.4
The treatment of human malignancies involving drugs can be
divided into two pharmacologic phases, a pharmacokinetic phase
in which the dose, dosage form, frequency, and route of administration are related to drug level–time relationships in the body,
and a pharmacodynamic phase in which the concentration of drug
at the site(s) of action is related to the magnitude of the effect(s)
produced. Once both of these phases have been defined, a dosage regimen can be designed to achieve the therapeutic objective,
although additional factors need to be taken into consideration
(Fig. 15.1). The clinical application of this approach allows distinctions between pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic causes
of an unusual drug response. A basic tenet of pharmacokinetics is
that the magnitude of both the desired response and toxicity are
functions of the drug concentration at the site(s) of action. Accordingly, therapeutic failure results when either the concentration is
too low, resulting in ineffective therapy, or is too high, producing
unacceptable toxicity. Between these limits of concentrations lies
a region associated with therapeutic success, the so-called therapeutic window.5 Because the concentration of a drug at the site
of action can rarely be measured directly, with the exception of
certain hematologic malignancies, plasma or blood is commonly
measured instead as a more accessible alternative.

Historically, most anticancer drugs have been administered intravenously; however, the use of orally administered agents is growing
with the development of small-molecule targeted cancer therapeutics, such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors.6 Moreover, drugs may
also be administered regionally, for example into the pleural or
peritoneal cavities,7 the cerebrospinal fluid, or intra-arterially into
a vessel leading to a cancerous tissue.8 The process by which the
unchanged drug moves from the site of administration to the site of
measurement within the body is referred to as absorption. Loss at
any site prior to the site of measurement contributes to a decrease
in the apparent absorption of a drug. For an orally administered
agent, this complex series of events involves disintegration of the
pharmaceutical dosage form, dissolution, diffusion through gastrointestinal fluids, permeation of the gut membrane, portal circulation uptake, passage through the liver, and, finally, entry into the
systemic circulation. The loss of drug as it passes for the first time
through organs of elimination, such as the gastrointestinal membranes and the liver, during the absorption process is known as the
first-pass effect.9
The pharmacokinetic parameter most closely associated with
absorption is availability or bioavailability (F), defined as the fraction (or percent) of the administered dose that is absorbed intact.
Bioavailability can be estimated by dividing the area under the
plasma concentration–time curve (AUC) achieved following
extravascular administration by the AUC observed after intravenous administration, and can range from 0 to 1.0 (or 0% to 100%).

PHARMACOKINETIC CONCEPTS
A drug’s pharmacokinetic properties can be defined by two fundamental processes affecting drug behavior over time, absorption
and disposition.

Disposition
Disposition is defined as all the processes that occur subsequent
to absorption of a drug; by definition, the components of disposition are distribution and elimination. Distribution is the process of
reversible transfer of a drug to and from the site of measurement.
Any drug that leaves the site of measurement and does not return
has undergone elimination, which occurs by two processes, excretion and metabolism. Excretion is the irreversible loss of the chemically unchanged drug, whereas metabolism is the conversion of
drug to another chemical species.
The extent of drug distribution can be determined by relating
the concentration obtained with a known amount of drug in the
body and is, in essence, a dilution space. The apparent volume
into which a drug distributes in the body at equilibrium in called
the volume of distribution (Vd), and may or may not correspond to
an actual physiologic compartment.
The rate and extent to which a drug distributes into various tissues
depend on a number of factors, including hydrophobicity, tissue permeability, tissue-binding constants, binding to serum proteins, and
local organ blood flow.10 Large apparent volumes of distribution are
common for agents with high tissue binding or high lipid solubility,

174
tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 15 Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Anticancer Drugs

Pharmacodynamics
- Therapeutic window
- Side effects
- Concentration–response
relationship

Management of therapy
- Convenience of regimen
- Compliance of patient

State of patient
- Age
- Weight
- Existence of other
disease states

Dosage Regimen

Other factors
- Costs
- Route of administration
- Dosage form
- Tolerance–dependence
- Drug interactions

Pharmacogenetics
- Target genes
- Drug-metabolizing enzymes
- Drug transporters

although distribution into specific body compartments may be limited by physiologic processes, such as the blood–brain barrier protecting the central nervous system11,12 or the blood–testes barrier.13
Just as Vd is needed as a parameter to relate the concentration to
the amount of drug in the body, there is also a need to have a parameter to relate the concentration to the rate of drug elimination, which
is known as clearance (CL). Of all pharmacokinetic parameters, CL
has the most clinical relevance because it defines the key relationship
between drug dose and systemic drug exposure (AUC). Derived from
Vd and CL is the parameter elimination rate constant, which can be
regarded as the fractional rate of drug removal. It is, however, more
common to refer to the half-life than to the elimination rate constant
of a drug. The half-life of a drug is a useful parameter to estimate the
time required to reach steady state on a multidose schedule or during
a continuous intravenous drug infusion.

Dose Proportionality
When drug concentrations change in strict proportionality to the
dose of drug administered, then the condition of dose proportionality (or linear pharmacokinetics) holds. If doubling the dose exactly

10

IV

30

20

10

0

doubles the plasma concentration or AUC, then pharmacokinetic
parameters such Vd, and CL are constant and remain independent
of dose and concentration.14 By strict definition, drugs with linear
pharmacokinetics are dose proportional. Dose proportionality is
clinically important because it means that dose adjustments will
generate predictable changes in systemic drug exposure. For drugs
that lack dose proportionality, Vd and CL will demonstrate concentration or time dependence, or both, making it difficult to predict
the effect of dose adjustments on drug concentration (Fig. 15.2).
Factors that can contribute to a lack of dose proportional pharmacokinetics include saturable oral absorption,15 capacity-limited
distribution or protein binding,16 and/or saturable metabolism.17
Dose proportionality of anticancer agents is typically assessed in
Phase 1 dose-escalation trials in which small groups of patients are
treated at a single dose level using a parallel study design, although
the statistical power of such studies to detect deviations from dose
proportionality is poor. An alternative, more robust study design
is a crossover study in which each patient receives a low dose,
an intermediate dose, and a high dose over consecutive cycles of
treatment.18 However, such studies are relatively rare in oncology
because of the required use of low, potentially ineffective doses,
which may raise ethical concerns for patients.

Paclitaxel AUC (μM×h)

Paclitaxel AUC (μM×h)

40

0

100

200
300
Dose (mg/m2)

400

Figure 15.1 Principal determinants of dosage
regimen selection for an anticancer drug

Oral

8
6
4
2
0

0

100

200
300
Dose (mg/m2)

400

Figure 15.2 Effect of drug dose on systemic exposure to paclitaxel following intravenous (IV) or oral
administration in patients with cancer. Data are expressed as mean values (symbols) and standard deviation
(error bars). The dashed line indicates the hypothetical dose-proportional increase in the area under the plasma
concentration time curve (AUC). (Data derived from van Zuylen L, Karlsson MO, Verweij J, et al. Pharmacokinetic
modeling of paclitaxel encapsulation in Cremophor EL micelles. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol 2001;47:309–318,
and Malingre MM, Terwogt JM, Beijnen JH, et al. Phase I and pharmacokinetic study of oral paclitaxel. J Clin
Oncol 2000;18:2468–2475, respectively.)

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Pharmacokinetics
- Absorption
- Distribution
- Metabolism
- Excretion

175

176

Cancer Therapeutics

TA B L E 1 5 . 1
Examples of Systemic Exposure as a Pharmacodynamic Marker of Anticancer Drug Effects
Drug

Side Effect

Response/Survival

Carboplatin

Thrombocytopenia

Ovarian cancer

Cisplatin

Nephrotoxicity

Head and neck cancer

Cyclophosphamide

Cardiotoxicity

Docetaxel

Neutropenia

Doxorubicin

Neutropenia

Epirubicin

Neutropenia

Erlotinib

Skin rash

Non–small-cell lung cancer

Non–small-cell lung and head and neck cancer

Etoposide
5-Fluorouracil

Non–small-cell lung cancer
Diarrhea, mucositis

Head and neck cancer

Imatinib
Irinotecan

Chronic myeloid leukemia
Diarrhea, neutropenia

6-Mercaptopurine
Methotrexate

Acute lymphoblastic leukemia
Mucositis

Acute lymphoblastic leukemia

Nilotinib

Anemia, QT-interval prolongation

Paclitaxel

Neutropenia

Sorafenib

Hypertension, hand-foot skin reaction

Renal cell cancer

Sunitinib

Neutropenia

Renal cell cancer

Teniposide

Lymphoma

PHARMACODYNAMIC CONCEPTS
Pharmacodynamic models relate clinical drug effects with drug
dose, concentration, or other pharmacokinetic parameters indicative of drug exposures (Table 15.1). In oncology, pharmacodynamic
variability may account for substantial differences in clinical outcomes, even when systemic exposures are uniform. Variability in
pharmacodynamic response may be heavily influenced by clinical
covariates such as age, gender, prior chemotherapy, prior radiotherapy, concomitant medications, or other variables.19 The pharmacokinetic parameters that are most often correlated with drug
effects are markers of drug exposure, such as AUC. In general, the
specific parameter used as the independent variable in a pharmacodynamic analysis depends on the particular characteristics of the
study drug.
In oncology, pharmacodynamic studies of drug effects have most
often focused on toxicity endpoints.20 Continuous response variables, such as the percentage fall in the absolute blood count from
baseline, are easily analyzed using nonlinear regression methods.
Dose-limiting neutropenia has been frequently analyzed using a sigmoid maximum effect model described by the modified Hill equation. The pharmacodynamic analysis of subjectively graded clinical
endpoints, such as common toxicity criteria scores on a 4-point
scale, may require more sophisticated statistical methods.21,22 Logistical regression methods have been used to model these types of
categorical (ordinal) response or outcome variables.
Physiologic pharmacodynamic models describing the severity and time course of drug-related myelosuppression have been
derived using population mixed-effect methods for several agents,
including paclitaxel23,24 and pemetrexed.25 The ability of these
models to predict both the severity and duration of drug-induced
neutropenia substantially enhances their clinical usefulness.26 In
contrast to small-molecule therapeutics, large-molecule therapeutics such as monoclonal antibodies may not demonstrate toxicities
directly related to dose levels. For these agents, a thorough understanding of the pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationships

using modeling approaches may be critical for optimal dose
selection.27
The antitumor activity of certain chemotherapeutic agents is
highly schedule dependent. For such drugs, the dose fractionated
over several days can produce a different antitumor response or toxicity profile compared with the same dose given over a shorter period.
For example, the efficacy of etoposide in the treatment of small-cell
lung cancer is markedly increased when an identical total dose of
etoposide is administered by a 5-day divided-dose schedule rather
than a 24-hour infusion.28 Pharmacokinetic analysis in that study
showed that both schedules produced very similar overall drug exposure (as measured by AUC), but that the divided-dose schedule
produced twice the duration of exposure to an etoposide plasma concentration of >1 μg/mL. This finding has led to the use of prolonged
oral administration of etoposide to treat patients with cancer.29 Similar schedule dependence has been demonstrated for a number of
other anticancer agents, notably paclitaxel30,31 and topotecan.32 For
these agents, the variability in clinically tested treatment schedules
is enormous, ranging from short intravenous infusions of less than
30 minutes to 21-day or even 7-week continuous infusion administrations, with large differences in experienced toxicity profiles.

VARIABILITY IN PHARMACOKINETICS/
PHARMACODYNAMICS
There is often a marked variation in drug handling between individual patients, resulting in variability in pharmacokinetic parameters (Fig. 15.3), which will often lead to variability in the
pharmacodynamic effects of a given dose of a drug.33 That is, an
identical dose of drug may result in acceptable toxicity in one
patient, and unacceptable and possibly life-threatening toxicity
in another, or a clinical response in one individual and cancer
progression in another. The principal underlying sources of this
interindividual pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic variability are
discussed in the following paragraphs.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

177

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Chapter 15 Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Anticancer Drugs

Body Size and Body Composition

Pathophysiologic Changes

The traditional method of individualizing anticancer drug dosage
is by using body surface area (BSA).34 However, the usefulness of
normalizing an anticancer drug dose to BSA in adults has been questioned, because, for many drugs, there is no relationship between
BSA and CL.35 Likewise, attempts to replace BSA as a size metric
in dose calculation with alternate descriptors such as lean body
weight, either in an average population or in individuals at the outer
extremes of weight (i.e., frail, severely obese patients) have failed
for many anticancer agents.36,37 It should be pointed out that BSA
is a much more important consideration in drug dose calculation
for pediatric patients as compared to adults, because of the larger
size range in the former population.38 Based in part on the failure
to reduce interindividual pharmacokinetic variability with the use
of BSA normalization to obtain a starting dose, many of the more
recently developed molecularly targeted agents are currently administered using a flat-fixed dose irrespective of an individual’s BSA.37

Effects of Disease

Age
Changes in body composition and organ function at the extremes
of age can affect both drug disposition and drug effect.39 For
example, maturational processes in infancy may alter the absorption and distribution of drugs as well as change the capacity for drug
metabolism and excretion.4 The importance of understanding the
influence of age on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics
of individual anticancer agents has increased steadily as treatment
for the malignancies of infants,40 adolescents,41 and the elderly42
has advanced. Although pediatric cancers remain rare compared
with cancers in adults and the elderly population, in particular,
optimizing treatment in a patient group with a high cure rate and a
long expected survival becomes critical to minimize the incidence
of preventable late complications while maintaining efficacy.

Pathophysiologic changes associated with particular malignancies
may cause dramatic alterations in drug disposition. For example,
increases in the clearance of both antipyrine and lorazepam were
noted after remission induction compared with the time of diagnosis in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).43 The
clearance of unbound teniposide is lower in children with ALL
in relapse than during first remission.44 Because leukemic infiltration of the liver at the time of diagnosis is common, drugs metabolized by the liver may have a reduced clearance, as has been
documented in preclinical models.45
Furthermore, in mouse models, certain tumors elicited an acute
phase response that coincided with downregulation of human
CYP3A4 in the liver as well as the mouse ortholog Cyp3a11.46
The reduction of murine hepatic Cyp3a gene expression in
tumor-bearing mice resulted in decreased Cyp3a protein expression and, consequently, a significant reduction in Cyp3a-mediated
metabolism of midazolam. These findings support the possibility
that tumor-derived inflammation may alter the pharmacokinetic
and pharmacodynamic properties of CYP3A4 substrates, leading
to reduced metabolism of drugs in humans.47 This supports a possible need for disease-specific design of early clinical trials with
anticancer drugs,48 as has been recommended for docetaxel.49

Effects of Renal Impairment
The potential impact of pathophysiologic status on interindividual
pharmacokinetic variability can be due to either the disease itself
or to a dysfunction of specific organs involved in drug elimination.
For example, if urinary excretion is an important elimination route
for a given drug, any decrement in renal function could lead to
decreased drug clearance, which may result in drug accumulation

178

Cancer Therapeutics

and toxicity.50 Therefore, it would be logical to decrease the drug
dose relative to the degree of impaired renal function in order to
maintain plasma concentrations within a target therapeutic window. The best known example of this a priori dose adjustment
of an anticancer agent remains carboplatin, which is excreted
renally almost entirely by glomerular filtration. Various strategies
have been developed to estimate carboplatin doses based on renal
function among patients, either using creatinine clearance51 or
glomerular filtration rates as measured by a radioisotope method.52
The application of these procedures has led to a substantial reduction in pharmacokinetic variability, such that carboplatin is currently one of the few drugs routinely administered to achieve a
target exposure rather than on a milligram per square meter or
milligram per kilogram basis.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has developed
a guidance on the impact of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics, dosing, and labeling of drugs.53 The impact of this
guidance has been assessed following a survey of 94 new drug
applications for small-molecule new molecular entities approved
over the years 2003 to 2007. The survey results indicated that
41% of the applications that included renal impairment study
data resulted in a recommendation of dose adjustment in renal
impairment.54 Interestingly, the survey results provided evidence
that renal impairment can affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs
that are predominantly eliminated by nonrenal processes such
as metabolism and/or active transport. The latter finding supports the FDA recommendation to evaluate pharmacokinetic/
pharmacodynamic alterations in renal impairment for those drugs
that are predominantly eliminated by nonrenal processes, in addition to those that are mainly excreted unchanged by the kidneys.
A striking example of a drug in the former category is imatinib,
an agent that is predominantly eliminated by hepatic pathways
but where predialysis renal impairment is associated with dramatically reduced drug clearance,55 presumably due to a transportermediated process.56

Effects of Hepatic Impairment
In contrast to the predictable decline in renal clearance of drugs
when glomerular filtration is impaired, it is difficult to make general predictions on the effect of impaired liver function on drug
clearance. The major problem is that commonly applied criteria
to establish hepatic impairment are typically not good indicators
of drug-metabolizing enzyme activity and that several alternative
hepatic function tests, such as indocyanine green and antipyrine,
have relatively limited value in predicting anticancer drug pharmacokinetics. An alternative dynamic measure of liver function
has been proposed, which is based on totaled values (scored to the
World Health Organization [WHO] grading system) of serum bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, and either alanine aminotransferase
or aspartate aminotransferase to give a hepatic dysfunction score.57
Based on pharmacokinetic studies in patients with normal and
impaired hepatic function, guidelines have been proposed for
dose adjustments of several agents when administered to patients
with severe liver dysfunction.58 It should be emphasized that no
uniform criteria have been used in the conduct of these studies
and that, ultimately, substantial advances could be made through
an a priori determination of the hepatic activity of enzymes of pertinent relevance to the chemotherapeutic drug(s) of interest, as has
been done for docetaxel.59

Effects of Serum Proteins
The binding of drugs to serum proteins, particularly those that
are highly bound, may also have significant clinical implications
for a therapeutic outcome.60 Although protein binding is a major
determinant of drug action, it is clearly only one of a myriad of
factors that influence the disposition of anticancer drugs.16 The
extent of protein binding is a function of drug and protein concentrations, the affinity constants for the drug–protein interaction,

and the number of protein-binding sites per class of binding site.
Because only the unbound (or free) drug in plasma water is available for distribution, the therapeutic response will correlate with
free drug concentration rather than total drug concentration.
Several clinical situations, including liver and renal disease, can
significantly decrease the extent of serum binding and may lead to
higher free drug concentrations and a possible risk of unexpected
toxicity, although the total (free plus bound forms) plasma drug
concentrations are unaltered.61 It is important to realize, however,
that after therapeutic doses of most anticancer drugs, binding to
serum proteins is independent of drug concentration, suggesting
that the total plasma concentration is reflective of the unbound
concentration. For some anticancer agents, including etoposide62
and paclitaxel,63 however, protein binding is highly dependent on
dose and schedule.

Sex Dependence
A number of pharmacokinetic analyses have suggested that male
gender is positively correlated with the maximum elimination
capacity of various anticancer drugs (e.g., paclitaxel)8 or with increased clearance (e.g., imatinib)64 compared with female gender.
These observations have added to a growing body of evidence that
the pharmacokinetic profile of various anticancer drugs exhibits
significant sexual dimorphism, which is rarely considered in the
design of clinical trials during oncology drug development.

Drug Interactions
Coadministration of Other Chemotherapeutic
Drugs
Favorable and unfavorable interactions between drugs must be
considered in developing combination regimens. These interactions may influence the effectiveness of each of the components of
the combination, and typically occur when the pharmacokinetic
profile of one drug is altered by the other. Such interactions are
important in the design of trials evaluating drug combinations
because, occasionally, the outcome of concurrent drug administration is diminished therapeutic efficacy or increased toxicity of
one or more of the administered agents. Although a recent survey
indicated that clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions
are relatively rare in Phase I trials of oncology drug combinations,65 interactions appear to be more common for combinations
of tyrosine kinase inhibitors with cytotoxic chemotherapeutics.66

Coadministration of Nonchemotherapeutic Drugs
Many prescription and over-the-counter medications have the
potential to cause interactions with anticancer agents by altering
their pharmacokinetic characteristics and leading to clinically
significant phenotypes. Most clinically relevant drug interactions
in this category are due to changes in metabolic routes related to
an altered expression or function of cytochrome P450 (CYP) isozymes. This class of enzymes, particularly the CYP3A4 isoform, is
responsible for the oxidation of a large proportion of currently approved anticancer drugs. Elevated CYP activity (induction), translated into a more rapid metabolic rate, may result in a decrease
in plasma concentrations and to a loss of therapeutic effect. For
example, anticonvulsant drugs such as phenytoin, phenobarbital,
and carbamazepine can induce drug-metabolizing enzymes and
thereby increase the clearance of various anticancer agents.33
Conversely, the suppression (inhibition) of CYP activity, for
example with ketoconazole,13,67 may trigger a rise in plasma concentrations and can lead to exaggerated toxicity commensurate
with overdose. It should be borne in mind that several pharmacokinetic parameters could be altered simultaneously. Especially
in the development of anticancer agents given by the oral route,

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 15 Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Anticancer Drugs

179

TA B L E 1 5 . 2
Effect of Food on Exposure to Select Oral Anticancer Agents
Drug

Food

Effect on Drug Exposure

Manufacturer’s Recommendations

Abiraterone

High-fat meal

l AUC 1,000%

Without food

Dasatinib

High-fat meal

l AUC 14%

With or without food

Erlotinib

High-fat, high-calorie breakfast

Single dose, l AUC 200%
Multiple dose, l AUC 37%–66%

Without fooda

Gefitinib

High-fat breakfast

n AUC 14%, n Cmax 35%

With or without food

High-fat breakfast

l AUC 32%, l Cmax 35%

Imatinib

High-fat meal

No change

Lapatinib

Low-fat meal (5% fat, 500 calories)

l AUC 167%, l Cmax 142%

High-fat meal (50% fat, 1,000 calories)

l AUC 325%, l Cmax 203%

Nilotinib

High-fat meal

l AUC 82%

Without food
Without food

With food and a large glass of waterb

Variability (% CV) n 37%

Moderate-fat meal (30% fat, 700 calories)

No change in bioavailability

High-fat meal (50% fat, 900 calories)

n Bioavailability 29%

Sunitinib

High-fat, high-calorie meal

l AUC 18%

With or without food

Everolimus

High-fat meal

n AUC 16%, n Cmax 60%

With or without food

Vismodegib

High-fat meal

l AUC 74% for single dose; no
effect at steady state

With or without food

Vorinostat

High-fat meal

l AUC 37%

With foodd

a

Recommended without food because the approved dose is the maximum tolerated dose.
Recommended with food to reduce nausea.
Recommended without food to achieve consistent drug exposure; was taken without food in clinical trials.
d
Was taken with food in clinical trials.
AUC, area under the plasma concentration time curve; Cmax, maximum plasma concentration; CV, coefficient of variation.
b
c

oral bioavailability plays a crucial role9; this parameter is contingent on adequate absorption and the circumvention of intestinal
and, subsequently, hepatic metabolism of the drug. It has been
suggested that the prevalence of drug–drug interactions is particularly high in cancer patients receiving oral chemotherapy,68 especially for agents that are weak bases that exhibit pH-dependent
solubility.69
An additional consideration is related to a possible influence
of food intake on the extent of drug absorption after oral administration, which can increase, decrease, or remain unchanged
depending on specific physicochemical properties of the drug in
question (Table 15.2). The relatively narrow therapeutic index of
most of these agents means that significant inter- and intrapatient
variability would predispose some individuals to excessive toxicity
or, conversely, inadequate efficacy.12

Coadministration of Complementary and
Alternative Medicine
Surveys within the past decade estimate the prevalence of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) use in oncology patients
to be as high as 87%, and in many cases the treating physician
is not aware of the patients’ CAM use.70 With a larger number
of participants to phase I clinical trials71 using herbal treatments
combined with allopathic therapies, the risk for herb–drug interactions is a growing concern, and there is an increasing need to
understand possible adverse drug interactions in oncology at the
early stages of drug development.
A number of clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions involving CAM and cancer drugs have now been recognized, although causal relationships have not always been
established.72 Most of the observed interactions point to the herbs

affecting several isoforms of the CYP family, either through inhibition or induction. In the context of chemotherapeutic drugs,
St. John’s wort,73 garlic,74 milk thistle,75 and Echinacea11 have
been formally evaluated for their pharmacokinetic drug–interaction potential in cancer patients. However, various other herbs
have the potential to significantly modulate the expression and/
or activity of drug-metabolizing enzymes and drug transporters
(Table 15.3), including ginkgo, ginseng, and kava.70 Because of
the high prevalence of herbal medicine use, physicians should
include herb usage in their routine drug histories in order to have
an opportunity to outline to individual patients which potential
hazards should be taken into consideration prior to participation
in a clinical trial.

Inherited Genetic Factors
The discipline of pharmacogenetics describes differences in the
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of drugs as a result of
inherited variation in drug metabolizing enzymes, drug transporters, and drug targets between patients.76 These inherited variations
are occasionally responsible for extensive interpatient variability
in drug exposure or effects. Severe toxicity might occur in the
absence of a typical metabolism of active compounds, while the
therapeutic effect of a drug could be diminished in the case of
an absence of activation of a prodrug, such as irinotecan.77 The
importance and detectability of polymorphisms for a given enzyme or transporter depends on the contribution of the variant
gene product to pharmacologic response, the availability of alternative pathways of elimination, and the frequency of occurrence
of the variant allele. Although many substrates have been identified for the known polymorphic drug metabolizing enzymes

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Sorafenib

Without foodc

180

Cancer Therapeutics

TA B L E 1 5 . 3
Effects of Common Herbal Products on Exposure to Anticancer Agents
Botanical

Concurrent Chemotherapy/Condition (Suspected Effect)

Ephedra

Avoid with all cardiovascular chemotherapy (synergistic increase in blood pressure)

Ginkgo

Caution with camptothecins, cyclophosphamide, TK inhibitors, epipodophyllotoxins, taxanes, and vinca alkaloids
(CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inhibition); discourage with alkylating agents, antitumor antibiotics, and platinum
analogs (free-radical scavenging)

Ginseng

Discourage in patients with estrogen-receptor–positive breast cancer and endometrial cancer (stimulation of
tumor growth)

Green tea

Discourage with erlotinib and pazopanib (CYP1A2 induction)

Japanese arrowroot

Avoid with methotrexate (ABC and OAT transporter inhibition)

St. John’s wort

Avoid with all concurrent chemotherapy (CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and ABCB1 induction)

Valerian

Caution with tamoxifen (CYP2C9 inhibition), cyclophosphamide, and teniposide (CYP2C19 inhibition)

Kava-kava

Avoid in all patients with preexisting liver disease, with evidence of hepatic injury (herb-induced hepatotoxicity),
and/or in combination with hepatotoxic chemotherapy; caution with camptothecins, cyclophosphamide, TK
inhibitors, epipodophyllotoxins, taxanes, and Vinca alkaloids (CYP3A4 induction)

TK, tyrosine kinase; CYP, cytochrome P450; ABC, ATP-binding cassette; OAT, organic anion transporter.

and transporters, the contribution of a genetically determined
source of interindividual pharmacokinetic variability has been
established for only a few cancer chemotherapeutic agents. Most
of these cases involve agents for which elimination is critically
dependent on a rate-limiting breakdown by a polymorphic enzyme (e.g., 6-mercaptopurine by thiopurine-S-methyltransferase;
5-fluorouracil by dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase) or when a
polymorphic enzyme is involved in the formation of a toxic metabolite (e.g., tamoxifen by CYP2D6).78
In addition to drug metabolism, pharmacokinetic processes
are highly dependent on the interplay with drug transport in
organs such as the intestines, kidneys, and liver. Genetically
determined variation in drug transporter function or expression
is now increasingly recognized to have a significant role as a
determinant of intersubject variability in response to various commonly prescribed drugs.79 The most extensively studied class of
drug transporters are those encoded by the family of ATP-binding
cassette (ABC) genes, some of which also play a role in the resistance of malignant cells to anticancer agents. Among the 48
known ABC gene products, ABCB1 (P-glycoprotein), ABCC1
(multidrug-resistance associated protein-1 [MRP1]) and its homologue ABCC2 (MRP2; cMOAT), and ABCG2 (breast cancer
resistance protein [BCRP]) are known to influence the oral absorption and disposition of a wide variety of drugs.80 As a result,
the expression levels of these proteins in humans have important
consequences for an individual’s susceptibility to certain anticancer drug–induced side effects, interactions, and treatment efficacy, for example, in the case of genetic variation in ABCG2 in
relation to gefitinib-induced diarrhea.81
Similar to the discoveries of functional genetic variations in
drug efflux transporters of the ABC family, there have been considerable advances in the identification of inherited variants in
transporters that facilitate cellular drug uptake in tissues that play
an important role in drug elimination, such as the liver (Fig. 15.4).
Among these, members of the organic anion-transporting polypeptides (OATP), organic anion transporters (OAT), and organic cation transporters (OCT) can mediate the cellular uptake of a large
number of structurally divergent compounds.82,83 Accordingly,
functionally relevant polymorphisms in these influx transporters
may contribute to interindividual and interethnic variability in
drug disposition and response,84 for example, in the case of the
impact of polymorphic variants in the OCT1 gene SLC22A1 on
the survival of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia receiving
treatment with imatinib.85

DOSE-ADAPTATION USING
PHARMACOKINETIC/PHARMACODYNAMIC
PRINCIPLES
Therapeutic Drug Monitoring
Prolonged infusion schedules of anticancer drugs offer a very convenient setting for dose adaptation in individual patients. At the
time required to achieve steady-state concentration, it is possible to
modify the infusion rate for the remainder of the treatment course
if a relationship is known between this steady-state concentration
and a desired pharmacodynamic endpoint. This method has been
successfully used to adapt the dose during continuous infusions of
5-fluorouracil and etoposide, and for repeated oral administration of
etoposide or repeated intravenous administration of cisplatin.86 Methotrexate plasma concentrations are routinely monitored to identify
patients at high risk of toxicity and to adjust leucovorin rescue in patients with delayed drug excretion. This monitoring has significantly
reduced the incidence of serious toxicity, including toxic death, and
in fact, has improved outcome by eliminating unacceptably low systemic exposure levels.87 Therapeutic drug monitoring has also been
applied to or is currently under investigation for several more recently
developed anticancer drugs, including imatinib88–90 and sorafenib.91

Feedback-Controlled Dosing
It remains to be determined how information on interindividual
pharmacokinetic variability can eventually be used to devise an
optimal dosage regimen of a drug for the treatment of a given
disease in an individual patient. Obviously, the desired objective
would be most efficiently achieved if the individual’s dosage requirements could be calculated prior to administering the drug.
While this ideal cannot be met completely in clinical practice,
with the notable exception of carboplatin, some success may be
achieved by adopting feedback-controlled dosing. In the adaptive
dosage with feedback control, population-based predictive models are used initially, but allow the possibility of dosage alteration
based on feedback revision. In this approach, patients are first
treated with standard dose and, during treatment, pharmacokinetic information is estimated by a limited-sampling strategy and
compared with that predicted from the population model with
which treatment was initiated. On the basis of the comparison,

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

181

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Chapter 15 Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Anticancer Drugs

more patient-specific pharmacokinetic parameters are calculated,
and dosage is adjusted accordingly to maintain the target exposure
measure producing the desired pharmacodynamic effect. Despite
its mathematical complexity, this approach may be the only way
to deliver the desired and precise exposure of an anticancer agent.
The study of population pharmacokinetics seeks to identify the
measurable factors that cause changes in the dose-concentration
relationship and the extent of these alterations so that, if these are
associated with clinically significant shifts in the therapeutic index,
dosage can be appropriately modified in the individual patient. It
is obvious that a careful collection of data during the development of drugs and subsequent analyses could be helpful to collect
some essential information on the drug. Unfortunately, important
information is often lost by failing to analyze this data or due to the

fact that the relevant samples or data were never collected. Historically, this has resulted in the notion that tools for the identification
of patient population subgroups are inadequate for most of the currently approved anticancer drugs.
However, the use of population pharmacokinetic models is
increasingly studied in an attempt to accommodate as much of
the pharmacokinetic variability as possible in terms of measurable
characteristics. This type of analysis has been conducted for a
number of clinically important anticancer drugs, including carboplatin,92 docetaxel,93 topotecan,94 gefitinib,95 and erlotinib,96
and provided mathematical equations based on morphometric,
demographic, phenotypic enzyme activity, and/or physiologic
characteristics of patients, in order to predict drug clearance with
an acceptable degree of precision and bias.97

182

Cancer Therapeutics

21. Xie R, Mathijssen RH, Sparreboom A, et al. Clinical pharmacokinetics of
irinotecan and its metabolites in relation with diarrhea. Clin Pharmacol Ther
2002;72:265–275.
24. Minami H, Sasaki Y, Saijo N, et al. Indirect-response model for the time
course of leukopenia with anticancer drugs. Clin Pharmacol Ther 1998;64:
511–521.
27. Keizer RJ, Huitema AD, Schellens JH, et al. Clinical pharmacokinetics of
therapeutic monoclonal antibodies. Clin Pharmacokinet 2010;49:493–507.
30. Gelderblom H, Mross K, ten Tije AJ, et al. Comparative pharmacokinetics
of unbound paclitaxel during 1- and 3-hour infusions. J Clin Oncol 2002;
20:574–581.
33. Undevia SD, Gomez-Abuin G, Ratain MJ. Pharmacokinetic variability of
anticancer agents. Nat Rev Cancer 2005;5:447–458.
34. Gurney H. Dose calculation of anticancer drugs: a review of the current practice and introduction of an alternative. J Clin Oncol 1996;14:2590–2611.
35. Baker SD, Verweij J, Rowinsky EK, et al. Role of body surface area in dosing
of investigational anticancer agents in adults, 1991–2001. J Natl Cancer Inst
2002;94:1883–1888.
37. Sparreboom A, Wolff AC, Mathijssen RH, et al. Evaluation of alternate size
descriptors for dose calculation of anticancer drugs in the obese. J Clin Oncol
2007;25:4707–4713.
38. Bartelink IH, Rademaker CM, Schobben AF, et al. Guidelines on paediatric
dosing on the basis of developmental physiology and pharmacokinetic considerations. Clin Pharmacokinet 2006;45:1077–1097.
41. Veal GJ, Hartford CM, Stewart CF. Clinical pharmacology in the adolescent
oncology patient. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:4790–4799.
46. Charles KA, Rivory LP, Brown SL, et al. Transcriptional repression of hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4 gene in the presence of cancer. Clin Cancer Res
2006;12:7492–7497.
47. Moore MM, Chua W, Charles KA, et al. Inflammation and cancer: causes
and consequences. Clin Pharmacol Ther 2010;87:504–508.
49. Franke RM, Carducci MA, Rudek MA, et al. Castration-dependent pharmacokinetics of docetaxel in patients with prostate cancer. J Clin Oncol
2010;28:4562–4567.
50. Rahman A, White RM. Cytotoxic anticancer agents and renal impairment
study: the challenge remains. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:533–536.
51. Egorin MJ, Van Echo DA, Olman EA, et al. Prospective validation of a pharmacologically based dosing scheme for the cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II)
analogue diamminecyclobutanedicarboxylatoplatinum. Cancer Res 1985;45:
6502–6506.
52. Calvert AH, Newell DR, Gumbrell LA, et al. Carboplatin dosage: prospective evaluation of a simple formula based on renal function. J Clin Oncol
1989;7:1748–1756.
53. Huang SM, Temple R, Xiao S, et al. When to conduct a renal impairment
study during drug development: US Food and Drug Administration perspective. Clin Pharmacol Ther 2009;86:475–479.
57. Twelves C, Glynne-Jones R, Cassidy J, et al. Effect of hepatic dysfunction
due to liver metastases on the pharmacokinetics of capecitabine and its
metabolites. Clin Cancer Res 1999;5:1696–1702.

59. Hooker AC, Ten Tije AJ, Carducci MA, et al. Population pharmacokinetic
model for docetaxel in patients with varying degrees of liver function: incorporating cytochrome P4503A activity measurements. Clin Pharmacol Ther
2008;84:111–118.
61. Sparreboom A, Nooter K, Loos WJ, et al. The (ir)relevance of plasma protein
binding of anticancer drugs. Neth J Med 2001;59:196–207.
64. Gardner ER, Burger H, van Schaik RH, et al. Association of enzyme and
transporter genotypes with the pharmacokinetics of imatinib. Clin Pharmacol Ther 2006;80:192–201.
65. Wu K, House L, Ramirez J, et al. Evaluation of utility of pharmacokinetic
studies in phase I trials of two oncology drugs. Clin Cancer Res 2013;19:
6039–6043.
66. Hu S, Mathijssen RH, de Bruijn P, et al. Inhibition of OATP1B1 by tyrosine kinase inhibitors: in vitro-in vivo correlations. Br J Cancer 2014;110(4):
894–898.
67. Kehrer DF, Mathijssen RH, Verweij J, et al. Modulation of irinotecan
metabolism by ketoconazole. J Clin Oncol 2002;20:3122–3129.
68. van Leeuwen RW, Brundel DH, Neef C, et al. Prevalence of potential drugdrug interactions in cancer patients treated with oral anticancer drugs. Br J
Cancer 2013;108:1071–1078.
69. Budha NR, Frymoyer A, Smelick GS, et al. Drug absorption interactions
between oral targeted anticancer agents and PPIs: is pH-dependent solubility
the Achilles heel of targeted therapy? Clin Pharmacol Ther 2012;92:203–213.
70. Sparreboom A, Cox MC, Acharya MR, et al. Herbal remedies in the United
States: potential adverse interactions with anticancer agents. J Clin Oncol
2004;22:2489–2503.
76. Wheeler HE, Maitland ML, Dolan ME, et al. Cancer pharmacogenomics:
strategies and challenges. Nat Rev Genet 2013;14:23–34.
78. Huang RS, Ratain MJ. Pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics of anticancer agents. CA Cancer J Clin 2009;59:42–55.
81. Cusatis G, Gregorc V, Li J, et al. Pharmacogenetics of ABCG2 and adverse
reactions to gefitinib. J Natl Cancer Inst 2006;98:1739–1742.
84. Sprowl JA, Mikkelsen TS, Giovinazzo H, et al. Contribution of tumoral and
host solute carriers to clinical drug response. Drug Resist Updat 2012;15:5–20.
87. Evans WE, Relling MV, Rodman JH, et al. Conventional compared with
individualized chemotherapy for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
N Engl J Med 1998;338:499–505.
89. Larson RA, Druker BJ, Guilhot F, et al. Imatinib pharmacokinetics and
its correlation with response and safety in chronic-phase chronic myeloid
leukemia: a subanalysis of the IRIS study. Blood 2008;111:4022–4028.
93. Bruno R, Hille D, Riva A, et al. Population pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics of docetaxel in phase II studies in patients with cancer. J Clin Oncol
1998;16:187–196.
94. Gallo JM, Laub PB, Rowinsky EK, et al. Population pharmacokinetic model
for topotecan derived from phase I clinical trials. J Clin Oncol 2000;18:
2459–2467.
95. Li J, Karlsson MO, Brahmer J, et al. CYP3A phenotyping approach to predict
systemic exposure to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors. J Natl Cancer Inst
2006;98:1714–1723.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

16

Pharmacogenomics

Christine M. Walko and Howard L. McLeod

The evolution of understanding cancer biology has yielded many
advances that have been translated into cancer treatment. Application of this knowledge has allowed for a shift in chemotherapeutics
from traditional cytotoxic agents that worked by killing both healthy
and malignant fast growing cells to chemical and biologic therapies
aimed at targeting a specific gene or pathway critical to the particular cancer being treated.1 This age of pathway-directed therapy has
been made possible by the increased availability and feasibility of
high throughput technology able to provide comprehensive and
clinically useful molecular characterization of tumors. Translation
of these efforts have resulted in improved degree to disease control for many common cancers including breast, colorectal, lung,
and melanoma as well as long-term survival benefits for chronic
myelogenous leukemia (CML), gastrointestinal stromal tumors
(GIST), and childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).2
Pharmacogenomic-guided therapy aims the use information
on DNA and RNA integrity to optimize not only the treatment
choice for an individual patient, but also the dose and schedule
of that treatment. The assessment of both somatic and germ-line
mutations contribute to the overall individualization of cancer
treatment. Somatic mutations are genetic variations found within
the tumor DNA, but not DNA from the normal (germ-line) tissues, which also have functional consequences that influence disease outcomes and/or response to certain therapies. These types
of mutations or biomarkers can be classified as either prognostic
or predictive. Prognostic biomarkers identify subpopulations of
patients with different disease courses or outcomes, independent
of treatment. Predictive biomarkers identify subpopulations of patients most likely to have a response to a given therapy.3 Germline mutations are heritable variations found within the individual
and, in practical terms, are focused on DNA markers predictive for
toxicity or therapeutic outcomes of a particular therapy as well as
inheritable risk of certain cancers.4 Pharmacogenomic mutations
in the germ line provide some explanation for the interindividual
and interracial variability in drug response and toxicity. For cancer
chemotherapy, where cytotoxic agents are administered at doses
close to their maximal tolerable dose, and therapeutic windows are
relatively narrow, minor differences in individual drug handling
may lead to severe toxicities. Therefore, an understanding of the
sources of this variability would lead to the possibility of individualizing dosages or influencing clinical decisions that can improve
patient care. Pharmacogenomics has putative utility in therapy selection, clinical study design, and as a tool to improve understanding of the pharmacology of a medication.
The term pharmacogenetics was initially used to define inherited differences in drug effects and typically focused on individual
candidate genes. The field of pharmacogenomics now includes genomewide association studies and is used to describe genetic variations in all aspects of drug absorption, distribution, metabolism,
and excretion in addition to drug targets and their downstream
pathways.5 Table 16.1 illustrates some current clinical examples
of genotype-guided cancer chemotherapy. Variations in the DNA

sequences encoding these proteins may take the form of deletions,
insertions, repeats, frameshift mutations, nonsense mutations, and
missense mutations, resulting in an inactive, truncated, unstable,
or otherwise dysfunctional protein. The most common change
involves single nucleotide substitutions, called single-nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNP), which occur at approximately 1 per 1,000
base pairs on the human genome. Variability in toxicity or activity
can also be mediated by postgenomic events, at the level of RNA,
protein, or functional activity.

PHARMACOGENOMICS OF TUMOR
RESPONSE
Tumor response to chemotherapy is regulated by a complex, multigenic network of genes that encompasses inherent characteristics
of the tumor, differentially activated pathways of cell signaling, proliferation and DNA repair, factors that control drug delivery to the
tumor cells (e.g., metabolism, transport), and cell death. These may
in turn be modulated by previously administered treatment or drug
exposure, which may upregulate target proteins or activate alternative pathways of drug resistance. The polygenic nature of drug response implies that a better understanding of genotype–phenotype
associations would require more than the usual single-gene pharmacogenetic strategies employed to date. However, there are instances
where the genomic context of a single gene within a cancer will be
of high impact for specific therapeutic agents (see Table 16.1).

Pathway Directed Anticancer Therapy
One of the earliest success stories illustrating pathway-driven therapeutics is with CML. The hallmark chromosomal abnormality
of this disease is the translocation of chromosomes 9 and 22 that
ultimately produces the fusion gene BCR-ABL. This discovery in
1960 eventually led to the development of the targeted tyrosinekinase inhibitor (TKI) imatinib and its subsequent Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) approval for treatment of CML in 2001.6
The International Randomized Study of Interferon and STI571
(IRIS) trial began enrollment in 2000 and compared imatinib
with interferon and low-dose cytarabine, which was the previous
standard of care for newly diagnosed patients with chronic-phase
CML. All efficacy endpoints favored imatinib, including complete
cytogenetic response of 76.2% with imatinib compared with 14.5%
with interferon (p <0.001).7 Overall survival (OS) after 60 months
of follow-up was 89% with imatinib.8 This example is just one of
many where a once fatal disease can now be considered more akin
to a chronic disease, requiring a daily medication and regular physician follow-up, similar to hypertension or diabetes. Drug development has also kept pace with these advances and now several
other agents, including dasatinib, nilotinib, bosutinib, and ponatinib, have joined imatinib as treatment options for CML.
The idea of changing treatment focus from a disease-based model
to a pathway-driven model is also evolving. Human epidermal

183

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

INTRODUCTION

184

Cancer Therapeutics

TA B L E 1 6 . 1
Clinical Examples of Genotype-Guided Cancer Chemotherapy
Somatic Mutation Examples
Drug Target

Drug(s)

Malignancy

EML4-ALK

Crizotinib

Non–small-cell lung cancer

BCR-ABL

Dasatinib, imatinib, nilotinib,
bosutinib, ponatinib

Chronic myelogenous leukemia

BRAF

Vemurafenib, dabrafenib

Melanoma

Epidermal growth factor receptor
(EGFR)

Erlotinib, afatinib

Non–small-cell lung cancer

HER2

Trastuzumab, lapatinib, pertuzumab,
Ado-trastuzumab emtansine

Breast cancer, gastric cancer

Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)

Ruxolitinib

Myelofibrosis

Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene
(KRAS)

Cetuximab, panitumumab

Colorectal cancer

Rearranged during transfection
(RET)

Vandetanib

Medullary thyroid cancer
Germ-Line Mutation Examples

Gene Mutation

Drug

Effect

Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C19

Voriconazole

Decreased serum levels of active drug and potential
decreased efficacy in patients with high enzyme levels
(ultrarapid metabolizers)

CYP2D6

Tamoxifen, codeine, ondansetron

Decreased production of active metabolite and potential
decreased efficacy in patients with low enzyme levels

Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase
(DPYD)

5-Fluorouracil

Decreased elimination and increased risk of
myelosuppression, diarrhea, and mucositis in patients with
low enzyme levels

Glucose-6-phosphate
dehydrogenase (G6PD)

Rasburicase

Risk of severe hemolysis in patients with G6PD deficiency

Thiopurine methyltransferase
(TPMT)

Mercaptopurine, thioguanine,
azathioprine

Decreased methylation of the active metabolite resulting
decreased elimination and increased risk of neutropenia in
patients with low enzyme levels

UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT)
1A1

Irinotecan

Decreased glucuronidation of the active metabolite resulting
decreased elimination and increased risk of neutropenia and
diarrhea in patients with low enzyme levels

growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) is a transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinase that is overexpressed or amplified in up to 25% of breast
cancers. Trastuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed
against HER2 and demonstrated improved response rates (RR) and
time to disease progression in patients with metastatic HER2 positive
breast cancer and improved disease-free survival (DFS) and OS in
HER2-positive breast cancer patients treated with adjuvant trastuzumab.9 Several additional agents are now available to target the
HER2 pathway and vary in their pharmacology and mechanism of
action. Lapatinib is an oral TKI directed against HER2 and the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), pertuzumab is a humanized
monoclonal antibody that binds at a different location than trastuzumab and inhibits the dimerization and subsequent activation of
HER2 signaling, and ado-trastuzumab emtansine is an antibodydrug conjugate that targets HER2-positive cells and then releases
the cytotoxic antimitotic agent emtansine through liposomal degradation of the linking compound. All of these agents illustrate the
progress and pharmacologic diversity of pathway-directed therapy
and remain as standard of care options for HER2-positive breast cancer in either the adjuvant and/or metastatic settings.10 HER2 expression is not limited to breast cancer, however. Though less common,
HER2 expression is seen in numerous solid tumors including bladder, gastric, prostate and non–small-cell lung cancer with varying

degrees of incidence depending on the method of detection. Based
on results from a large, open-label phase III randomized, international trial of 594 patients with gastric or gastroesophageal junction
cancer expressing HER2 by either immunohistochemistry or gene
amplification by fluorescence in situ hybridization, trastuzumab is
also approved for treatment of metastatic gastric or gastroesophageal
junction adenocarcinoma that expresses HER2. Patients randomized to chemotherapy in combination with trastuzumab had a median OS of 13.8 months compared with 11.1 months in the patients
receiving chemotherapy alone (hazard ratio [HR], 0.74; 0.60 to
0.91, p = 0.0046).11 Numerous examples also support that pathwaydirected therapy will cross the boundaries of disease sites and that
tumor genetics will become one of the biggest determining factors
for treatment.
Simple expression of the drug target does not always translate
into desired clinical outcomes though. Cetuximab and panitumumab are monoclonal antibodies directed against EGFR; however, it was found that colorectal cancer (CRC) patients who did
not have detectable EGFR still experienced responses to these
agents similar in extent to EGFR-positive patients. Kirsten rat
sarcoma viral oncogene (KRAS) is a downstream effector of the
EGFR pathway. Ligand binding to EGFR on the cell surface activates pathway signaling through the KRAS-RAF-mitogen-activated

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

185

Chapter 16 Pharmacogenomics

Cell surface
Wild type
RAS
BRAF

BRAF

V600E

V600E

MEK
P

BRAF
inhibition

MEK
inhibition

ERK
P
Entry into cell nucleus
Cell growth and
proliferation
Figure 16.1 MAPK pathway in BRAF mutated melanoma. The BRAF
V600E mutation results in activation of the MAPK pathway independent
of growth factor binding, initially by phosphorylation (P) of MEK. MEK
subsequently phosphorylates ERK. ERK then translocates to the cell
nucleus and causes transcription of cellular factors, resulting in cell
proliferation and survival. Because one mechanism of resistance to BRAF
inhibition is through mutations in MEK, inhibition at both the upstream
target of BRAF and the downstream site of MEK can prolong the clinical
benefit of the BRAF inhibitor.

Although advances in basic science and drug development
have translated many oncogenic driver mutations across tumor
types into pathway-directed therapy, this is not the case for the
majority. There are numerous examples of functionally relevant
recurrent driver mutations that affect protein targets that are not
currently druggable. Regardless of malignancy, one of the most
commonly mutated tumor suppressors is the protein p53. Mutations can result in p53 acquiring oncogenic functions that enable
proliferation, invasion, metastasis, and cell survival as well as coordinating with different proteins, such as EGFR, to enhance or
inhibit its effects. However, a clinical application of p53 mutation
data or directly targeting p53 has been limited, to date.19 PIK3CA
encodes a catalytic subunit of phophoinositol-3 kinase (PI3K),
which includes four distinct subfamily kinases involved in regulating cell growth, motility, proliferation, and survival. Direct inhibitors of the kinase, as well as downstream targets, including AKT
(protein kinase B [PKB]) and mammalian target of rapamycin
(mTOR), are being assessed to target these mutations. Therapeutic
challenges include understanding the complex signaling network
germane to each cancer and the role of kinases in each subfamily.20 Both the examples of p53 and PI3K illustrate the challenge of
translating the multitude of somatic mutations into applications of
available therapeutic agents.

Application of Genomewide Gene Expression
Profiling to Guide Therapy
Single gene approaches may not reflect the overall complexity of genetic regulation of chemotherapy responses. Genomic
strategies using global gene expression data are able to provide
a more complete picture of the tumor through disease classification.21 These strategies may identify subgroups of patients with
early disease that need adjuvant chemotherapy, those who will not
benefit from standard therapy, or help with the selection of chemotherapy from a menu of potentially active agents. Oncotype Dx

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, which is thought to control cell
growth, differentiation, and apoptosis.12 Eventually it was found
that CRC patients with a KRAS mutation did not derive benefit
from cetuximab or panitumumab. The RR in CRC receiving either cetuximab or panitumumab who were KRAS wild type was
10% to 40% compared with near zero percent in those with KRAS
mutations.13 This finding was the result of a retrospective analysis
of small group of patients and was confirmed in large, prospective
trials. Additionally, it underscores the importance of tissue collection for biomarker assessment in trials with novel therapeutics. A
recent clinical trial genomic analysis suggests that mutations in
NRAS may also have value in predicting the utility of EGFR antibody therapy in colorectal cancer. Although the predictive value
of KRAS mutation status in colorectal cancer has been well established in clinical trials, the role of KRAS in lung cancer and
other malignancies is less well elucidated. Lung cancers harboring KRAS mutations have been shown to have less clinical benefit
from the EGFR-targeted erlotinib in some trials, although this has
not consistently been the case across all trials. Additionally, lung
cancer KRAS mutation status does not appear to reproducibly predict clinical benefit from the EGFR-targeted monoclonal antibodies, as is the case in colorectal cancer.14 Unlike the HER2 example
discussed previously, the clinical application of some genetic mutations will differ between tissue of origin.
Deeper investigations and understandings of mutations driving
oncogenic pathways can also elucidate mechanisms of resistance
and practical therapeutic strategies for treatment and prevention.
Approximately half of all cutaneous melanomas carry mutations
in BRAF, with the most common being the V600E mutation.
Vemurafenib is a TKI directed against mutated BRAF that demonstrated improvements in both progression-free survival (PFS)
and OS when compared with the cytotoxic agent dacarbazine in
previously untreated patients with metastatic melanoma carrying
the BRAF V600E mutation. Vemurafenib demonstrated a 63%
relative reduction in the risk of death compared with dacarbazine
(p <0.001) along with a higher response rate (48% compared with
5% for dacarbazine).15 Based on these results, vemurafenib was the
first BRAF targeted TKI approved by the FDA and was soon joined
by dabrafenib. Although dramatic responses to these agents have
been observed, relapse almost universally occurs after a median of
6 to 8 months. Activating BRAF mutations, like V600E, result in
uncontrolled activity of the MAPK pathway through activation of
the downstream kinase MEK, which when phosphorylated, subsequently activates extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK),
which ultimately translocates to the cell nucleus, resulting in cell
proliferation and survival (Fig. 16.1).16 An assessment of serial biopsies from patients treated with vemurafenib suggested numerous
mechanisms for acquired resistance, including the appearance of
secondary mutations in MEK.17 This finding supports the clinical rationale for using combination therapy with a BRAF and a
MEK inhibitor. The combination of dabrafenib (BRAF inhibitor)
and trametinib (MEK inhibitor) was assessed in 247 metastatic
melanoma patients with BRAF V600 mutations compared with
dabrafenib alone. Median PFS was 9.4 months in the combination
group compared with 5.8 months in the patients who received single agent therapy (HR, 0.39; 0.25 to 0.62, p <0.001). A complete or
partial response was also higher in the combination therapy group
(76% compared with 54%, p = 0.03). The occurrence of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, a known side effect of single-agent
BRAF inhibitor therapy due to paradoxical activation of RAF in
nonmutated cells, was also decreased in the combination therapy
group (7% compared with 19%, p = 0.09), further supporting the
evidence of downstream inhibition.18 Although combination therapy does prolong the time to disease progression, resistance still
occurs in patients through a variety of mechanisms. Utilization of
sequential biopsies and a genetic assessment will help to inform
rationale combination and sequential pathway-driven therapy trials that will ultimately aid in better understanding and mitigation
of common mechanism of resistance.

186

Cancer Therapeutics

is a 21-gene assay with 16 tumor-associated genes and 5 reference
genes used to predict the risk of distant local recurrence in estrogen receptor (ER)-positive, HER2-negative patients with nodenegative or select node-positive breast cancer. Additionally, the
test also provides predictive information on which patients may
benefit from the addition of chemotherapy to hormonal therapy
alone. The test ultimately reports a recurrence score (RS) on a
continuous scale from zero to 100. Patients with an RS <18 are
considered low risk, with a 10-year distant recurrence rate (DRR)
of 6.8% (95% confidence interval [CI], 4 to 9.6); RS scores of 18
to 30 are at intermediate risk, with a 10-year DRR of 14.3% (CI,
8.3 to 20.3); and RS scores ≥31 are at high risk, with a 10-year
DRR of 30.5% (CI, 23.6 to 37.4).22 Additionally, high-risk patients
have the largest benefit from the addition of chemotherapy to hormonal therapy (HR, 0.26; 0.13 to 0.53), whereas low-risk patients
have little benefit from the addition of chemotherapy and could
consider hormonal treatment alone (HR, 1.31; 0.46 to 3.78). Intermediate risk patients are harder to classify, and clinical trials
are underway to further address treatment recommendations for
this group of patients.23 These type of assays are also in development and in clinical trials for a variety of other solid tumor and
hematologic malignancies.

Genetic-Guided Therapy Practical Issues in
Somatic Analysis

% of pattern

Currently, targeted DNA capture is the most common type of somatic genetic screening and involves focusing on a few relevant
candidate genes followed by deeper sequencing. These types of
techniques can reveal common genes associated with a particular
malignancy but also may uncover a signaling pathway that would
not be obviously associated with a particular histology or tumor
site. Application of a next-generation sequencing assay in 40 CRC
and 24 non–small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) tissue samples that
assessed 145 cancer-relevant genes demonstrated that somatic
mutations were seen in 98% of the CRC tumors and 83% of the
NSCLCs (Fig. 16.2).24 The evolution of sequencing strategies
and decreasing costs has made whole genome sequencing more
available in the clinical setting, and several companies offer commercially available tumor profiling services. Several limitations
exist that currently restrict the broad clinical implementation of
these assays, however. Although germ-line genetic assessments can
be done on a peripheral blood sample or buccal swab, somatic
assessments typically require biopsy tissue, which is often in limited supply and of varying quality or may not be feasible depending on the site of the cancer. Ongoing studies are assessing the
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

Number of alterations per tumor
Figure 16.2 Number of alterations per tumor. Deep sequencing of 145
genes in 40 colorectal cancers found a spectrum of incidence of somatic
mutations, with more than half occurring in genes that are druggable
with medication that is either FDA approved or in late stage clinical
development.

value of liquid biopsies of circulating tumor DNA.25 Optimizing
and creating uniformity in quality control of gene panel or wholegenome assessment is also needed to decrease the reporting of uncertain or erroneous identification of mutations. Once sequencing
is completed, a predictive analysis is needed for the 25% to 80% of
instances where variants of unknown significance are identified in
genes of interest. Translation of genomic sequencing into clinical
practice will require a diverse team, including pathologists, medical oncologists, surgical oncologists, information technologists,
geneticists, and pharmacologists.

PHARMACOGENOMICS OF
CHEMOTHERAPY DRUG TOXICITY
A drug’s disposition and pharmacodynamic effects can be influenced by a number of variables, including patient age, diet, concomitant medications, and underlying disease processes. However,
an individual’s genetic constitution is an important regulator of
variability in drug effect. Differences in drug effects are more pronounced between individuals compared to within an individual.
Indeed, studies in monozygotic and dizygotic twins identified that
20% to 80% of the variation in drug disposition is mediated by
inheritance.26 Drug-metabolizing enzymes, cellular transporters,
and tissue receptors are governed by genetic variation.
Advances in the treatment of most common malignancies
have resulted in the availability of multiple distinct combination
chemotherapy regimens with similar or equal anticancer efficacy.
Therefore, differences in systemic toxicity have become a major
determinant in the selection of therapy. The majority of pharmacogenomic examples affecting adverse events or efficacy from
cytotoxic drugs involve hepatic metabolizing enzymes that detoxify or biotransform xenobiotics.27,28

Thiopurine Methyltransferase
One of the best-studied pharmacogenetic syndrome involves the
metabolism of the thiopurine drugs—6-mercaptopurine (6MP),
6-thioguanine, and azathioprine—which have wide applications,
including maintenance therapy for childhood ALL and adult leukemias. These prodrugs must be activated to thioguanine nucleotides in order to have antiproliferative effects. However, most of
the variability in the formation of active metabolites is mediated by
methylation via thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT).29 TPMT
is a cytosolic enzyme that catalyzes S-methylation of thiopurine
agents, resulting in an inactive metabolite. Erythrocyte TPMT
activity has a trimodal distribution, with 90% of patients having
high activity, 10% intermediate activity, and 0.3% with very low
or no detectable activity. TPMT deficiency results in higher intracellular activation of 6MP to form thioguanine nucleotides, resulting in severe or fatal hematologic toxicity from standard doses
of therapy.30 The variable activity results from polymorphism in
the TPMT gene, located on chromosome locus 6p22.3. Genetic
variants at codon 238 (TPMT*2), codon 719 (TPMT*3C), or
both codons 460 and 719 (TPMT*3A) are the most clinically significant, accounting for 95% of the patients with reduced TPMT
activity.31 Heterozygotes (one wild type and one variant allele)
are common (10% of patients), and have elevated levels of active
metabolites (twofold more than homozygous wild type), and required more cumulative dose reductions of 6MP for maintenance
ALL chemotherapy compared to homozygous wild-type patients
(Fig. 16.3).32 Patients with a homozygous variant TPMT genotype
are at a fourfold risk of severe toxicity, compared with wild-type
patients.31 TPMT genotype tests are now available commercially
in a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA)certified environment. To date, patients homozygous for TPMT
variant alleles appear to tolerate 10%, and heterozygotes appear to
tolerate 65% of the recommended doses of 6MP, with no apparent

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 16 Pharmacogenomics

500
400
300
200
100
0

wt/wt

wt/var

var/var

TPMT genotype
Figure 16.3 Relationship between TPMT genotype and required
6MP dose. Compared with homozygous wild-type patients, those
heterozygous for a thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) variant allele
generally require at least a 30% dose reduction in 6MP, whereas
homozygous variant patients require substantial dose reductions of
approximately 90% that of wild-type patients.

decrease in clinical efficacy (Fig. 16.3).32 This has formed the basis
for prospective, TPMT genotype-guided dosing of 6MP to avoid
severe toxicity. Clinical Pharmacogenomics Implementation Consortium (CPIC) Guidelines recommend that homozygous wildtype patients be started at the full standard dose. Heterozygous
patients should start with reduced doses at 30% to 70% of the full
dose with adjustments made after 2 to 4 weeks based on myelosuppression and disease-specific guidelines. Homozygous variant
patients should start with 10% of the full dose due to the extremely
high levels of the active metabolite and potential for fatal toxicity
at standard doses. Adjustments should be made after 4 to 6 weeks
based on myelosuppression and disease-specific guidelines.33

Dihydropyrimidine Dehydrogenase (DPD)
Although 5-fluorouracil (5FU) has been available for over 40
years, it remains the cornerstone of colorectal cancer chemotherapy, both in the adjuvant and metastatic settings. Additionally,
the oral prodrug capecitabine ultimately undergoes activation to
5FU and is commonly used in gastrointestinal and breast malignancies. 5FU is a prodrug that is activated intracellularly to
5-fluoro-2′-deoxyuridine monophosphate (5FdUMP), which
inhibits thymidylate synthase (TS), among other mechanisms of
action. TS inhibition results in impaired de novo pyrimidine synthesis and suppression of DNA synthesis. Approximately 85% of
a 5FU dose is catabolized by dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase
(DPD) to inactive metabolites. Therefore, DPD is a primary regulator of 5FU activity. DPD deficiency has been described, resulting
in higher 5FU blood levels, greater formation of active metabolites, and severe or fatal clinical toxicity, predominately myelosuppression, mucositis, and cerebellar toxicity.34 In theory, this toxicity
could be reduced or avoided by screening for DPD activity in surrogate tissues, such as peripheral mononuclear cells. However, the
technical requirements for preparation of these samples make it
impractical for many practice sites. Understanding the molecular
basis for DPD deficiency will provide an approach for prospective identification of patients at high risk for severe 5FU toxicity.
The gene encoding DPD is composed of 23 exons, and at least 23
SNPs have been found.35 Studies in DPD-deficient patients have
identified several distinct molecular variants associated with low
enzyme activity. Many of these are rare, and base substitutions,
splicing defects, and frame shift mutations, have been described.
The prevalent variation is the splice recognition site in intron 14
(DPYD*2A), where a G to A substitution results in the skipping of
exon 14, resulting in an inactive enzyme.36–38 This polymorphism

has been associated with severe DPD deficiency in heterozygous
patients, with a homozygous genotype associated with a mental retardation syndrome. Patients with severe 5FU toxicity may harbor
one or more variant alleles of DPD, and a recent study showed
that 61% of cancer patients experiencing severe 5FU toxicities
had decreased DPD activity in peripheral mononuclear cells, and
DPYD*2A was commonly found.39 In the patients with grade 4
neutropenia, 50% harbored at least one DPYD*2A. It is estimated
that in the Caucasian population, homozygotes for the variant
alleles have an incidence of 0.1% and heterozygotes occur at an incidence of 0.5% to 2%. There are additional DPD mutations that
have been associated with impaired enzyme activity, including
DPYD *3 and DPYD*13. CPIC guidelines recommend standard
dosing for homozygous wild-type patients. Reducing the dose by
at least 50% in heterozygous patients (*1/*2A) is recommended,
followed by dose adjustment based on toxicity and/or pharmacokinetic testing. The use of an alternative agent is recommended
in homozygous-variant patients (*2A/*2A).34 There are many
patients with severe 5FU toxicity that have normal DPD activity.
This highlights that many factors, including multiple genes, are
potential causes of 5FU toxicity, and there will not be one simple
test to avoid this important clinical problem.

Cytochrome P450 2D6
Tamoxifen is a selective estrogen-receptor modulator used in
ER-positive breast cancer in both the localized and metastatic
settings. It is the drug of choice for premenopausal women and
is a treatment option, along with aromatase inhibitors, for postmenopausal women. The low cost of tamoxifen also makes it a
preferred therapy regardless of menopausal status in numerous
countries. Tamoxifen metabolism is complex, with extensive metabolism through numerous phase I and II enzymes that produce
several primary and secondary metabolites and their corresponding isomers, each possessing different antiestrogen effects.40 The
primary active metabolite is believed to be endoxifen, which is
produced by the CYP3A4/5 mediated-conversion of tamoxifen to
N-desmethyltamoxifen, which is then further converted to endoxifen (4-hydroxy-N-desmethyltamoxifen) via cytochrome P450 2D6
(CYP2D6). A direct relationship between endoxifen concentration
and its antiestrogen effects has been demonstrated, potentially suggesting that a threshold concentration may be needed for optimal
clinical effect.41 CYP2D6 is highly polymorphic, with more than
80 allelic CYP2D6 variants described. These alleles vary in enzyme activity and prevalence with respect to race and ethnicity.42
Based on genotype, patients can be classified by phenotype into
ultrarapid metabolizers (UM; approximately 1% to 2% of patients
[common alleles include *1xN, *2xN]) who carry more than two
functional allele copies, extensive metabolizers (EM; 77% to 92%
[e.g., *1, *2]), intermediate metabolizers (IM; 2% to 11% [e.g.,
*10, *17, *41]), or poor metabolizers (PM; 5% to 10% [*3, *4,
*5]).43 UM patients have the highest concentrations of endoxifen, followed by EM patients, then IM patients, and finally, PM
patients have the lowest concentration. Up to a sixfold variation
in endoxifen levels may be seen between homozygous PM and
homozygous EM patients.40
The relationship between CYP2D6 genotype, endoxifen concentrations, and disease outcomes has been investigated in numerous clinical trials. One of the largest retrospective trials assessed
this relationship in 1,325 women treated with adjuvant tamoxifen
20 mg daily. Approximately 46% of the patients were classified as
EM, 48% were IM, and 5.9% were PM. A statistically significant
increased risk of disease recurrence was seen in the IM and PM
patients compared with the EM patients (HR, 1.40; 95% CI, 1.04
to 1.90 for IM; and HR 1.90, 95% CI, 1.10 to 3.28 for PM).44 A
large meta-analysis of 4,973 tamoxifen-treated patients across 12
international studies conducted by the International Tamoxifen
Pharmacogenomics Consortium also supported this relationship.

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

6-Mercaptopurine dosage
(mg/m2/week)

600

187

188

Cancer Therapeutics

CYP2D6 PM phenotypes were associated with decreased DFS
(HR 1.25, 95% CI, 1.06 to 1.47, p = 0.009) when only considering
the data from trials with postmenopausal women with ER-positive
breast cancer who received tamoxifen 20 mg daily for 5 years.45
Not all trial results have been consistent, however, and dosing
guidelines for genotype-guided therapy do not yet exist. Clinical
trials do support the potential for genotype-guided therapy. IM patients who received an increased dose of 40 mg daily instead of
the standard 20 mg were shown to have endoxifen concentrations
similar to that of EM patients (p = 0.25).46 This suggests that genotype-guided therapy with increased dose recommendations may be
feasible, but additional prospective trials are needed to determine
the clinical efficacy of this intervention.

CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS
Genomic-driven cancer medicine is being translated into clinical
practice through increased understanding of somatic mutations
in a specific tumor that can be translated to pathway-directed
therapeutics as well as germ-line mutations that affect the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of individual medications.
For the practicing oncologist, knowledge of pharmacogenomics is
necessary because therapeutic decisions of drug selection and dosage are being based on more molecularly and genetically defined
variables than the current phenotypic information of tumor type,

S E L E C T E D
The full reference list can be accessed at lwwhealthlibrary.com/oncology.
1. McLeod HL. Cancer pharmacogenomics: early promise, but concerted effort needed. Science 2013;339:1563–1566.
2. Garraway LA. Genomics-driven oncology: framework for an emerging paradigm. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:1806–1814.
4. Evans WE, Relling MV. Pharmacogenomics: translating functional genomics into rational therapeutics. Science 1999;286:487–491.
5. Wang L, McLeod HL, Weinshilboum RM. Genomics and drug response.
N Engl J Med 2011;364:1144–1153.
6. Druker BJ. Translation of the Philadelphia chromosome into therapy for
CML. Blood 2008;112:4808–4817.
8. Druker BJ, Guilhot F, O’Brien SG, et al. Five-year follow-up of patients
receiving imatinib for chronic myeloid leukemia. N Engl J Med 2006;355:
2408–2417.
9. Hudis CA. Trastuzumab—mechanism of action and use in clinical practice.
N Engl J Med 2007;357:39–51.
12. Bardelli A, Siena S. Molecular mechanisms of resistance to cetuximab and
panitumumab in colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1254–1261.
13. Jimeno A, Messersmith WA, Hirsch FR, et al. KRAS mutations and sensitivity
to epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors in colorectal cancer: practical
application of patient selection. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:1130–1136.
15. Chapman PB, Hauschild A, Robert C, et al. Improved survival with vemurafenib in melanoma with BRAF V600E mutation. N Engl J Med 2011;364:
2507–2516.
17. Trunzer K, Pavlick AC, Schuchter L, et al. Pharmacodynamic effects and
mechanisms of resistance to vemurafenib in patients with metastatic melanoma. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:1767–1774.
18. Flaherty KT, Infante JR, Daud A, et al. Combined BRAF and MEK inhibition
in melanoma with BRAF V600 mutations. N Engl J Med 2012;367:1694–1703.
21. Ramaswamy S, Golub T. DNA microarrays in clinical oncology. J Clin Oncol 2002;20:1932–1941.
22. Paik S, Shak S, Tang G, et al. A multigene assay to predict recurrence of
tamoxifen-treated, node-negative breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2004;351:
2817–2826.
24. Lipson D, Capelletti M, Yelensky R, et al. Identification of new ALK and
RET gene fusions from colorectal and lung cancer biopsies. Nat Med 2012;
18:382–384.

immunohistochemistry, and body surface area. Health-care policy
changes preferring the bundling of care and reimbursement based
on diagnosis coding may further drive individualized therapy
where the goal is to optimize both treatment responses while minimizing toxicity. However, with advances always come challenges.
Reimbursement for multiplex genomic testing is not universal, so
deciding who and when to initiate testing is a consideration. Optimizing turnaround time, especially for referral patients who have
had biopsies performed elsewhere, will require requesting this archived tissue prior to or during the initial patient visit to facilitate
minimizing treatment delays. Although some variants have strong
evidence supporting treatment recommendations, many currently
do not yet. Multidisciplinary committees charged with reviewing
the level of evidence for each genetic result and providing clinically actionable recommendations will be essential for translating
these multigene tumor assay results into routine clinical practice.
Decision tools and development of treatment guidelines will further assist with routine integration of this technology, especially for
oncologists at smaller practice sites. Oncology fellowship training
programs will also need to be expanded to ensure competence of
new practitioners in the area of genomic-guided therapies.
Regardless of these challenges, the treatment paradigm of genomic-driven medicine and individualizing therapy has permitted
the field of oncology to move beyond the limitations of nonselective cytotoxic therapy and toward the more optimal selection and
dosing of oncology agents.

R E F E R E N C E S
25. Diaz LA Jr, Bardelli A. Liquid biopsies: genotyping circulating tumor DNA.
J Clin Oncol 2014;32:579–586.
27. Evans W, Relling M. Pharmacogenomics: translating functional genomics
into rational therapeutics. Science 1999;286:487–491.
30. McLeod H, Krynetski EY, Relling MV, et al. Genetic polymorphism of thiopurine methyltransferase and its clinical relevance for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Leukemia 2000;14:567–572.
33. Relling MV, Gardner EE, Sandborn WJ, et al. Clinical pharmacogenetics
implementation consortium guidelines for thiopurine methyltransferase
genotype and thiopurine dosing: 2013 update. Clin Pharmacol Ther 2013;
93:324–325.
34. Caudle KE, Thorn CF, Klein TE, et al. Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium guidelines for dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase
genotype and fluoropyrimidine dosing. Clin Pharmacol Ther 2013;94:
640–645.
37. Ridge S, Sludden J, Wei X, et al. Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase pharmacogenetics in patients with colorectal cancer. Br J Cancer 1998;77:497–500.
40. Mürdter TE, Schroth W, Bacchus-Gerybadze L, et al. Activity levels of
tamoxifen metabolites at the estrogen receptor and the impact of genetic
polymorphisms of phase I and II enzymes on their concentration levels in
plasma. Clin Pharmacol Ther 2011;89:708–717.
41. Desta Z, Ward BA, Soukhova NV, et al. Comprehensive evaluation of tamoxifen sequential biotransformation by the human cytochrome P450 system
in vitro: prominent roles for CYP3A and CYP2D6. J Pharmacol Exp Ther
2004;310:1062–1075.
43. Crews KR, Gaedigk A, Dunnenberger HM, et al. Clinical Pharmacogenetics
Implementation Consortium (CPIC) guidelines for codeine therapy in the
context of cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) genotype. Clin Pharmacol Ther
2012;91:321–326.
44. Schroth W, Goetz MP, Hamann U, et al. Association between CYP2D6
polymorphisms and outcomes among women with early stage breast cancer
treated with tamoxifen. JAMA 2009;302:1429–1436.
45. Province MA, Goetz MP, Brauch H, et al. CYP2D6 genotype and adjuvant
tamoxifen: meta-analysis of heterogeneous study populations. Clin Pharmacol Ther 2014;95:216–227.
46. Irvin WJ Jr, Walko CM, Weck KE, et al. Genotype-guided tamoxifen dosing increases active metabolite exposure in women with reduced CYP2D6
metabolism: a multicenter study. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:3232–3239.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

17

Alkylating Agents

PERSPECTIVES
Alkylating agents were the first anticancer molecules developed, and
they are still used today. After more than 50 years of use, the basic
chemistry and pharmacology of this drug family is well understood
and has not changed substantially. The family contains six major
classes: nitrogen mustards, aziridines, alkyl sulfonates, epoxides,
nitrosoureas, and triazene compounds, although a few nonstandard
agents have recently been developed. Most epoxides tend to be quite
nonspecific with respect to their reactivity and, as such, few have
useful clinical characteristics. This chapter provides perspective on
how the limited varieties of alkylating agents continue to be useful
in the therapeutic management of cancer patients.
The alkylating agents are a diverse group of anticancer agents
with the commonality that they react in a manner such that an
electrophilic alkyl group or a substituted alkyl group can covalently
bind to cellular nucleophilic sites. Electrophilicity is achieved
through the formation of carbonium ion intermediates and can
result in transition complexes with target molecules. Ultimately,
reactions result in the formation of covalent linkages by alkylation with a broad range of nucleophilic groups, including bases in
DNA, and these are believed responsible for ultimate cytotoxicity
and therapeutic effect. Although the alkylating agents react with
cells in all phases of the cell cycle, their efficacy and toxicity result
from interference with rapidly proliferating tissues. From a historical perspective, the vesicant properties of mustard gas used during
World War I were shown to be accompanied by the suppression
of lymphoid and hematologic functions in experimental animals1
and led to the development of mechlorethamine as the first alkylating agent used in the management of human cancer.2 Subsequently, a number of related drugs have been developed, and these
have roles in the treatment of a range of leukemias, lymphomas,
and solid tumors. Most of the alkylating agents cause dose-limiting
toxicities to the bone marrow and, to a lesser degree, the intestinal mucosa, with other organ systems also affected contingent on
the individual drug, dosage, and duration of therapy. Despite the
present trend toward targeted therapies, this class of “nonspecific”
drugs maintains an essential role in cancer chemotherapy.
Because of the classic nature of the drug family, there have
been relatively few advances in either their use or utility since publication of the previous edition of this book.

CHEMISTRY
Alkylating reactions are generally classified through their kinetic
properties as SN1 (nucleophilic substitution, first order) or SN2
(nucleophilic substitution, second order) (Fig. 17.1). The first-order
kinetics of the SN1 reactions depend on the concentration of the original alkylating agent. The rate-limiting step is the initial formation of
the reactive intermediate, and the rate is essentially independent of
the concentration of the substrate. The SN2 alkylation reaction is a
bimolecular nucleophilic displacement with second-order kinetics,
where the rate depends on the concentration of both alkylating agent

and target nucleophile. Reactivity of electrophiles3 suggests that the
rates of alkylation of cellular nucleophiles (including thiols, phosphates, amino and imidazole groups of amino acids, and various reactive sites in nucleic acid bases) are most dependent on their potential
energy states, which can be defined as “hard” or “soft,” based on the
polarizability of their reactive centers.4 Although the metabolism and
metabolites of nitrogen mustards and nitrosoureas differ, the active
alkylating species of each is the alkyl carbonium ion (see Fig. 17.1), a
highly polarized hard electrophile as a consequence of its highly positive charge density at the electrophilic center. Alkyl carbonium ions
will react most readily with hard nucleophiles (possessing a highly
polarized negative charge density), where the high-energy transition
state (a potential energy barrier to the reaction) is most favorable.
In specific terms, an active alkylating species from a nitrogen mustard
will demonstrate selectivity for cellular nucleophiles in the following
order: (1) oxygen in phosphate groups of RNA and DNA, (2) oxygens
of purines and pyrimidines, (3) amino groups of purine bases, (4) primary and secondary amino groups of proteins, (5) sulfur atoms of
methionine, and (6) thiol groups of cysteinyl residues of protein and
glutathione.3 The least favored reactions will still occur, but at much
slower rates unless they are catalyzed.
Alkylation through highly reactive intermediates (e.g., mechlorethamine) would be expected to be less selective in their targets
than the less reactive SN2 reagents (e.g., busulfan). However, the
therapeutic and toxic effects of alkylating agents do not correlate
directly with their chemical reactivity. Clinically useful agents
include drugs with SN1 or SN2 characteristics, and some with
both.5 These differ in their toxicity profiles and antitumor activity, but more as a consequence of differences in pharmacokinetics,
lipid solubility, penetration of the central nervous system (CNS),
membrane transport, metabolism and detoxification, and specific
enzymatic reactions capable of repairing alkylation sites on DNA.

CLASSIFICATION
The major classes of clinically useful alkylating agents are illustrated in Table 17.1 and summarized in the following sections.
Doses and schedules of the various agents are shown in Table 17.2.

Alkyl Sulfonates
Busulfan is used for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia. It exhibits SN2 alkylation kinetics and shows nucleophilic
selectivity for thiol groups, suggesting that it may exert cytotoxicity
through protein alkylation rather than through DNA. In contrast
to the nitrogen mustards and nitrosoureas, busulfan has a greater
effect on myeloid cells than lymphoid cells, thus the reason for its
use against chronic myelogenous leukemia.6

Aziridines
Aziridines are analogs of ring-closed intermediates of nitrogen mustards and are less chemically reactive, but they have

189

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Kenneth D. Tew

190

Cancer Therapeutics
Nitrogen mustard

Chloroethyl nitrosourea
Cl

CH2CH2Cl

RN

CH2

CH2

CH2CH2Cl

C

NH

N

R

R

OH–
O

CH2CH2Cl

RN

N
NO

Cl–
+

O

Cl

CH2

CH2

CH2

N

C

H

N

C
H2 Immonium ion

O

H

O

−

CH2CH2Cl

RN
+

Chloroethyl diazohydroxide

CH2

Cl

H2C

CH2

CH2

N

N

OH

+ OH– + RNCO
Carbonium ion

Organic isocyanate
Carbonium ion

R
CH2

CH2

N

+

Cl

CH2

+

CH2

CH2

–

+ N2 + OH

C
H2
Second immonium ion
Cl

CH2

CH2

Nucleophile

R
CH2

CH2

N

CH2

CH2

dechlorination
CH2

Second carbonium ion
leading to bifunctionality

CH2

Bifunctionality

Figure 17.1 Comparative decomposition and metabolism of a typical nitrogen mustard compared to a
nitrosourea. Although intermediate metabolites are distinct, the active alkylating species is a carbonium ion
in each case. This electrophilic moiety reacts with target cellular nucleophiles.

equivalent therapeutic properties. Thiotepa has been used in
the treatment of carcinoma of the breast, ovary, for a variety of
CNS diseases, and with increasing frequency as a component of
high-dose chemotherapy regimens.7 Thiotepa and its primary
desulfurated metabolite triethylenethiophosphoramide (TEPA)
alkylate through aziridine ring openings, a mechanism similar to
the nitrogen mustards.

Triazines
Perhaps the newest clinical development in the alkylating agent
field is the emergence of temozolomide (TMZ). This agent acts as
a prodrug and is an imidazotetrazine analog that undergoes spontaneous activation in solution to produce 5-(3-methyltriazen-1-yl)
imidazole-4-carboxamide (MTIC), a triazine derivative. It crosses
the blood–brain barrier with concentrations in the CNS approximating 30% of plasma concentrations.8 Resistance to the methylating agent occurs quite frequently and has adversely affected the
rate and durability of the clinical responses of patients. However,
because of its favorable toxicity and pharmacokinetics, TMZ is

being combined with numerous other classes of anticancer drugs
in an effort to improve response rates in diseases such as malignant
melanomas, gliomas, brain metastasis from solid tumors, and
refractory leukemias. Many of these trials are currently underway.9

Nitrogen Mustards
Bischloroethylamines or nitrogen mustards are extensively administered in the clinic. As an initial step in alkylation, chlorine acts
as a leaving group and the β-carbon reacts with the nucleophilic
nitrogen atom to form the cyclic, positively charged, reactive aziridinium moiety. Reaction of the aziridinium ring with an electron-rich
nucleophile creates an initial alkylation product. The remaining
chloroethyl group achieves bifunctionality through the formation
of a second aziridinium. Melphalan (l-phenylalanine mustard),
chlorambucil, cyclophosphamide, and ifosfamide (see Table 17.1)
replaced mechlorethamine as primary therapeutic agents. These
derivatives have electron-withdrawing groups substituted on the
nitrogen atom, reducing the nucleophilicity of the nitrogen and rendering them less reactive, but enhancing their antitumor efficacy.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 17 Alkylating Agents

191

T A B L E 1 7. 1
Major Classes of Clinically Useful Alkylating Agents
Drug

Main Therapeutic Uses

Clinical Pharmacology

Major Toxicities

Notes

Bioavailability, 80%; protein
bound, 33%; t1/2, 2.5 h

Pulmonary fibrosis,
hyperpigmentation
thrombocytopenia, lowered
blood platelet count and
activity

Oral or parenteral; high
dose causes hepatic venoocclusive disease

Protein bound, 94%;
t1/2, 5–10 h

Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea,
and neurotoxicity

Not widely used

t1/2, 2.5 h; urinary excretion
at 24 h, 25%; substrate for
CYP2B6 and CYP2C11

Myelosuppression

Nadirs of leukopenia, occur
2 wk; thrombocytopenia,
3 wk (correlates with AUC
of parent drug)

Nausea, vomiting,
myelosuppression

Precursor for other clinical
mustards

ALKYL SULFONATES
Busulfan

Bone marrow
transplantation, especially
in chronic myelogenous
leukemia

ETHYLENEIMINES/METHYLMELAMINES
Altretamine
Thio TEPA

Breast, ovarian, and
bladder cancer; also bone
marrow transplant

Mechlorethamine

Hodgkin lymphoma

Melphalan
(L-phenylalanine
mustard)

Multiple myeloma and
ovarian cancer, and
occasionally malignant
melanoma

Bioavailability 25%–90%;
t1/2, 1.5 h; urinary excretion
at 24 h, 13%; clearance,
9 mL/min/kg

Nausea, vomiting,
myelosuppression

Causes less mucosal
damage than others in
class

Chlorambucil

Chronic lymphocytic
leukemia

t1/2, 1.5 h; urinary excretion
at 24 h, 50%

Myelosuppression,
gastrointestinal distress,
CNS, skin reactions,
hepatotoxicity

Oral

Cyclophosphamide

Variety of lymphomas,
leukemias, and solid
tumors

Bioavailability, >75%;
protein bound, >60%;
t1/2, 3–12 h; urinary
excretion at 24 h, <15%

Nausea and vomiting,
bone marrow suppression,
diarrhea, darkening of the
skin/nails, alopecia (hair loss),
lethargy, hemorrhagic cystitis

IV; primary excretion route
is urine

Ifosfamide

Testicular, breast cancer;
lymphoma (non-Hodgkin);
soft tissue sarcoma;
osteogenic sarcoma; lung,
cervical, ovarian, bone
cancer

t1/2, 15 h; urinary excretion
at 24 h, 15%

As for cyclophosphamide

Ifosfamide is often used
in conjunction with mesna
to avoid cystinuria

Carmustine

Glioma, glioblastoma
multiforme,
medulloblastoma and
astrocytoma, multiple
myeloma and lymphoma
(Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin)

Bioavailability, 25%; protein
bound, 80%; t1/2, 30 min

Bone marrow and
pulmonary toxicities are
a function of lifetime
cumulative dose

Clinically, nitrosoureas do
not share cross-resistance
with nitrogen mustards in
lymphoma treatment

Streptozotocin

Cancers of the islets of
Langerhans

t1/2, 35 min; excreted in the
urine (15%), feces (<1%),
and in the expired air

Nausea and vomiting;
nephrotoxicity can range
from transient protein urea
and azotemia to permanent
tubular damage; can also
cause aberrations of
glucose metabolism

A natural product
from Streptomyces
achromogenes

Dacarbazine

Malignant melanoma and
Hodgkin lymphoma

t1/2, 5 h; protein bound,
5% hepatic metabolism

Nausea, vomiting,
myelosuppression

IV or IM

Temozolomide

Glioblastoma; astrocytoma;
metastatic melanoma

Protein bound, 15%;
t1/2, 1.8 h; clearance,
5.5 l/h/m2

Nausea, vomiting,
myelosuppression

Oral; derivative of
imidazotetrazine, prodrug
of dacarbazine; rapidly
absorbed

NITROSOUREAS

TRIAZENES

t1/2, half-life; TEPA, triethylenethiophosphoramide; AUC, area under curve; CNS, central nervous system; IV, intravenous; IM, intramuscular.

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

NITROGEN MUSTARDS

192

Cancer Therapeutics

T A B L E 1 7. 2
Dose and Schedules of Clinically Useful Alkylating Agents
Alkylating Agent

Disease Sites and Dose Ranges Used Clinically

Notes

BCNU (Carmustine)

General antineoplastic
150–200 mg/m2 (IV, every 6 wks)
Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma 200–600 mg
(topical solution)
Adjunct to surgical resection of brain tumor
61.6 mg (implant)

Infusion 1–2 h; in combination, dose usually reduced by
25%–50%
Side effects include irritant dermatitis, telangiectasia,
erythema, and bone marrow suppression
Up to 8 wafers (7.7 mg of carmustine) implanted

Busulfan

Chronic myelogenous leukemia and
myeloproliferative disorders
4–8 mg (daily PO)
1.8 mg/m2 (daily PO)
Bone marrow transplant
640 mg/m2 (daily PO)

Dispensed over 3–4 d, with cyclophosphamide

Carboplatin

Advanced ovarian cancer—monotherapy
360 mg/m2 (IV, every 4 wks)
Ovarian cancer—combination
300 mg/m2 (IV, every 4 wks for 6 cycles)
Ovarian cancer—IP
200–500 mg/m2 (IP, 2 L dialysis fluid)
Ovarian and other sites phase 1/2 setting—
high-dose therapy
800–1,600 mg/m2 (IV)

With cyclophosphamide
Patients usually receive marrow transplantation or
peripheral stem cell support

Cisplatin

Metastatic testicular cancer:
20 mg/m2/d for 5 d of each cycle (IV)
Metastatic ovarian cancer:
75–100 mg/m2 (IV, once every 4 wks)
Head and neck cancer:
100 mg/m2 (IV)
Bladder cancer:
(combination prior to cystectomy)
50–70; initiate dosing at 50
mg/m2 (IV, once every 3–4 wks)
Metastatic breast cancer:
20 mg/m2 (IV, days 1–5 every 3 wks)
Cervical cancer:
70 mg/m2 (IV, dosing cycled every 4 wks)
Non–small-cell lung cancer:
75 mg/m2 (IV, every 3 wks)
Esophageal cancer:
75 mg/m2 on day 1 of wks 1, 5, 8, and 11 (IV)

With other antineoplastic agents
With cyclophosphamide (600 mg/m2 once every 4 wks)
With vincristine, bleomycin, and fluorouracil
With methotrexate and fluorouracil
MVAC regimen (methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin,
and cisplatin) used for cervical cancer
Administration preceded by paclitaxel 135 mg/m2
every 3 wks
With radiation therapy

Cyclophosphamide

General antineoplastic
1–5 mg/kg (daily PO)
40–50 mg/kg (IV, in divided doses over 2–5 d)
40–50 mg/kg (IV, in divided doses over 2–5 d)
10–15 mg/kg (IV, every 7–10 d)
10–15 mg/kg (IV, every 7–10 d)
3–5 mg/kg (IV twice per wk)
High-dose regimen in bone marrow transplantation
and for other autoimmune disorders
200 mg/kg (IV)
1–2.5 mg/kg (daily PO 7–14 d/mo)

Dose used as monotherapy for patients with no
hematologic toxicity

Dacarbazine

General antineoplastic
2–4.5 mg/kg/d (IV)
150 mg/m2/d (IV)

Administered for 10 d, may be repeated at 4-week intervals
With other anticancer agents; treatment lasts 5 d,
may be repeated every 4 wks

Etoposide

Testicular cancer
50–100 mg/m2/day (IV, slow infusion over
30–60+ min for 5 d)
Small cell lung cancer
35–50 mg/m2/day (IV, slow infusion over
30–60+ min for 4–5 d)

Alternatively, 100 mg/m2/d on days 1, 3, and 5 may
be used; doses for combination therapy and are
repeated at 3- to 4-wk intervals after recovery from
hematologic toxicity
Doses are for combination therapy and repeated at 3- to
4-wk intervals after recovery from hematologic toxicity;
oral dose is twice the IV, rounded to the nearest 50 mg
(continued)

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 17 Alkylating Agents

193

T A B L E 1 7. 2

Ifosfamide

General antineoplastic
1.2 g/m2/d (IV, for 5 consecutive days)

Repeat every 3 wks

Melphalan

Multiple myeloma:
16 mg/m2 (IV, infusion over 15–20 min)
6 mg (daily PO)
Epithelial ovarian cancer:
0.2 mg/kg (daily PO)

2-week intervals for 4 doses, 4-wk intervals thereafter
After 2–3 wks treatment, should be discontinued for up
to 4 wks, then reinstituted at 2–4 mg/d
Daily dose for a 5-d course, repeated every 4–5 wks

Streptozotocin

Pancreatic tumors
500 mg/m2/d; 1,000 mg/m2/d (IV; IV)

500 mg for 5 consecutive days every 6 wks, 1,000 mg
is for 2 wks, followed by an increase in weekly dose
not to exceed 1,500 mg/m2/wk

Temozolomide

Brain tumors
150 mg/m2 (daily PO)

Dose adjusted on the basis of blood counts

Thiotepa

General antineoplastic:
0.3–0.4 mg/kg (IV)
Papillary carcinoma of the bladder:
60 mg/wk for 4 wks (bladder catheter)
Control of serous effusions:
0.6–0.8 mg/kg (intracavitary)

Rapid administration given at 1- to 4-wk intervals
30 or 60 mL should be retained for 2 h, so the patient is
usually dehydrated prior to administration of the drug

IV, intravenously; PO, by mouth; IP, intraperitoneal.

One distinguishing feature of melphalan is that an amino acid
transporter responsible for uptake influences its efficacy across cell
membranes.10 Although a number of glutathione (GSH) conjugates
of alkylating agents are effluxed through adenosine triphosphate–
dependent membrane transporters,11 specific uptake mechanisms
are generally rare for cancer drugs. Cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide are prodrugs that require cytochrome P-450 metabolism to
release active alkylating species. Cyclophosphamide continues to
be the most widely used alkylating agent and has activity against
a variety of tumors.12 A cost saving with equivalent therapeutic
activity was recently shown in a modified regimen of high-dose
cyclophosphamide plus cyclosporine in patients with severe or
very severe aplastic anemia.13

Nitrosoureas
The nitrosoureas form a diverse class of alkylating agents that
have a distinct metabolism and pharmacology that separates them
from others.14 Under physiologic conditions, proton abstraction
by a hydroxyl ion initiates spontaneous decomposition of the
molecule to yield a diazonium hydroxide and an isocyanate (see
Fig. 17.1). The chloroethyl carbonium ion generated is the active
alkylating species. Through a subsequent dehalogenation step, a
second electrophilic site imparts bifunctionality.15 Thus, while
cross-linking may occur similar to those lesions caused by nitrogen mustards, the chemistry leading to the endpoint is distinct.
The isocyanate species generated are also electrophilic, showing
nucleophilic selectivity toward sulfhydryl and amino groups that
can inhibit a number of enzymes involved in nucleic acid synthesis and thiol balance.16 Because carbamoylation is considered
of minor importance to the therapeutic efficacy of clinically used
nitrosoureas, chlorozotocin and streptozotocin were designed to
undergo internal carbamoylation at the 1- or 3-OH group of the
glucose ring, with the consequence that no carbamoylating species are produced.17,18 Streptozotocin is also unusual in that most
methylnitrosoureas have only modest therapeutic value. However,
its lack of bone marrow toxicity and strong diabetogenic effect in
animals led to its use in cancer of the pancreas (see Table 17.1).19
The dose-limiting toxicities in humans are gastrointestinal and
renal, but the drug has considerably less hematopoietic toxicity
than the other nitrosoureas. Because of their lipophilicity and capacity to cross the blood–brain barrier, the chloroethylnitrosoureas

were found to be effective against intracranially inoculated murine
tumors. Indeed, early preclinical studies showed that many mouse
tumors were quite responsive to nitrosoureas. The same extent of
efficacy was not found in humans. Subsequent analyses demonstrated that an enzyme responsible for repair of O-6-alkyl guanine
(O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase [MGMT], or the
Mer/Mex phenotype)20 was expressed at low levels in mice, but at
high levels in humans, a contributory factor in the reduced clinical efficacy of nitrosoureas in humans. In the 1980s, in particular,
a number of new nitrosoureas were tested in patients in Europe
and Japan, but none established a regular role in standard cancer
treatment regimens.
MGMT promoter methylation is crucial in MGMT gene silencing and can predict a favorable outcome in glioblastoma patients receiving alkylating agents.21 This biomarker is on the verge
of entering clinical decision making and is currently used to stratify
or even select glioblastoma patients for clinical trials. In other
subtypes of glioma, such as anaplastic gliomas, the relevance of
MGMT promoter methylation might extend beyond the prediction of chemosensitivity, and could reflect a distinct molecular
profile. At this time, the standardization of MGMT assays will be
critical in establishing prospective prognostic or predictive effects.
In addition, eventual clinical trials will need to determine, for each
subtype of glioma, the extent to which methylation patterns are
predictive or prognostic and whether such assays could be incorporated into an individualized approach to clinical practice.21

CLINICAL PHARMACOKINETICS/
PHARMACODYNAMICS
The pharmacokinetics of the alkylating agents are highly variable
depending on the individual agent. Nevertheless, they are generally
characterized by high reactivity and short half-lives. Although detailed studies on clinical pharmacology are available,22 Table 17.1
summarizes some of the primary kinetic characteristics of the
major clinically useful drugs. Mechlorethamine is unstable and is
administered rapidly in a running intravenous infusion to avoid its
rapid breakdown to inactive metabolites. In contrast, chlorambucil
and cyclophosphamide are sufficiently stable to be given orally,
and are rapidly and completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, whereas others like melphalan have poor and variable

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Dose and Schedules of Clinically Useful Alkylating Agents (continued)

194

Cancer Therapeutics
Cl

CH2

CH2

Cyclophosphamide

CH2

N

O

P

CH2

Cl

NH

O

Cl

CH2

CYP2B6

CH2

N

O

CH2

P

CH2

Cl
Aldehyde
dehydrogenase

NH
OH

O
4-hydroxycyclophosphamide
Cl

CH2

CH2

N

Phosphoramide
O P
mustard
OH

CH2

CH2

Cl

Cl

CH2

CH2

N

+
NH2

O

P

CH2

CH2

Cl

NH2

O

H
C

CH

Aldophosphamide

O

O

Acrolein
Cl
GS

CH2

CH2
O
OH

N
P

CH2

CH2

CH2

CH2

N

O

Cl

P

CH2

CH2

Cl

NH2

O
NH2

H
GS

C

COOH

Carboxyphosphamide
O

Monoglutathione conjugates
Cl

CH2

CH2

N

CH2

CH2

Cl

H
Nor-nitrogen mustard
Figure 17.2 Activation and detoxification routes of metabolism for cyclophosphamide.

oral absorption. Cyclophosphamide,23 ifosfamide, and dacarbazine are unusual in that they require activation by cytochrome
P-450 in the liver before they can alkylate cellular constituents.
The nitrosoureas also require activation, albeit nonenzymatic. The
major route of metabolism of most alkylating agents is spontaneous hydrolysis, although many can also undergo some degree of
enzymatic metabolism. This is particularly pertinent for phase II
metabolic conversions where reactivity with nucleophilic thiols
precedes conversion to mercapturates, with the result that most
of the alkylating agents are excreted in the urine. One example of
complex multistep metabolism is provided by cyclophosphamide
(see Fig. 17.2). Activation by CYP2B6 is followed by the conversion of aldehyde dehydrogenase to reactive alkylating species or
possible detoxification through GSH conjugation reactions. The
latter is particularly important for acrolein because it is believed to
contribute to the bladder toxicities associated with the drug.
The alkylating agents form covalent bonds with a number of
nucleophilic groups present in proteins, RNA, and DNA (e.g.,
amino, carboxyl, sulfhydryl, imidazole, phosphate). Under physiologic conditions, the chloroethyl group of the nitrogen mustards

undergoes cyclization, with the chloride acting as a leaving group
forming an intermediate carbonium ion that attacks nucleophilic
sites (see Fig. 17.1). Bifunctional alkylating agents (with two chloroethyl side chains) can undergo a subsequent cyclization to form
a covalent bond with an adjacent nucleophilic group, resulting in
DNA–DNA or DNA–protein cross-links. The N7 or O6 positions
of guanine are particularly susceptible and may represent primary
targets that determine both the cytotoxic and mutagenic consequences of therapy.24 The nitrosoureas have a similar, but distinct,
mechanism of action, spontaneously forming both alkylating and
carbamoylating agents in aqueous media (see Fig. 17.1). The carbamoylating moieties are generally believed to be inconsequential
to the therapeutic properties of the nitrosoureas.

THERAPEUTIC USES
The alkylating agents are frequently used in combination therapy
to treat a variety of types of cancer. Perhaps the most versatile
is cyclophosphamide, whereas the other alkylating agents are of

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 17 Alkylating Agents

TOXICITIES
The alkylating agents show significant qualitative and quantitative
variability in the sites and severities of their toxicities. The primary
dose-limiting toxicity is suppression of bone marrow function, with
secondary limiting effects on the proliferating cells of the intestinal
mucosa.
Contraindications to the use of alkylating agents would identify patients with severely depressed bone marrow function and
patients with hypersensitivity to these drugs. Other listed precautions to these drugs include carcinogenic and mutagenic effects
and impairment of fertility. Precaution is also advised in patients
with (1) leukopenia or thrombocytopenia, (2) previous exposure
to chemotherapy or radiotherapy, (3) tumor cell infiltration of
the bone marrow, and (4) impaired renal or hepatic function.
These drugs can also increase toxicity in adrenalectomized patients and interfere with wound healing. A brief summary of doselimiting toxicities is shown in Table 17.1, and a narrative of each
follows here.

Nausea and Vomiting
Nausea and vomiting are frequent side effects of alkylating agent
therapy and are not well controlled by conventional antiemetics.24
They are a major source of patient discomfort and a significant
cause of lack of drug compliance and even discontinuation of therapy. Frequency and extent are highly variable among patients. The
overall frequency of nausea and vomiting is directly proportional to
the dose of alkylating agent. The onset of nausea may occur within
a few minutes of the administration of the drug or may be delayed
for several hours.

Bone Marrow Toxicity
Bone marrow toxicity can involve all of the blood elements, leukocytes, platelets, and red cells.26 The extent and time course
of suppression show marked interindividual fluctuation. Relative
platelet sparing is a characteristic of cyclophosphamide treatment. Even at the very high doses (<200 mg/kg) of cyclophosphamide (used in preparation for bone marrow transplantation),
some recovery of hematopoietic elements occurs within 21 to
28 days. This stem cell–sparing property is further reflected by
the fact that cumulative damage to the bone marrow is rarely
seen when cyclophosphamide is given as a single agent, and
repeated high doses can be given without progressive lowering
of leukocyte and platelet counts. The biochemical basis for the
stem cell–sparing effect of cyclophosphamide is related to the
presence of high levels of aldehyde dehydrogenase in early bone
marrow progenitor cells (see Fig. 17.2). Busulfan is particularly
toxic to bone marrow stem cells,26 and treatment can lead to
prolonged hypoplasia. The hematopoietic depression produced
by the nitrosoureas is characteristically delayed. The onset
of leukocyte and platelet depression occurs 3 to 4 weeks after
drug administration and may last an additional 2 to 3 weeks.22,26
Thrombocytopenia appears earlier and usually is more severe
than leukopenia. Even if the nitrosourea is given at 6-week intervals, hematopoietic recovery may not occur between courses,
and the drug dose often must be decreased when repeated
courses are used.

Renal and Bladder Toxicity
Hemorrhagic cystitis is unique to the oxazaphosphorines (cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide) and may range from a mild cystitis to
severe bladder damage with massive hemorrhage.27 This toxicity is
caused by the excretion of toxic metabolites (particularly acrolein)
(see Fig. 17.2) in the urine, with subsequent direct irritation of the
bladder mucosa. The incidence and severity can be lessened by
adequate hydration and continuous irrigation of the bladder with
a solution containing 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate (MESNA) and
frequent bladder emptying.26 MESNA is given in divided doses
every 4 hours in dosages of 60% of those of the alkylating agent.
At high cumulative doses, all commonly used nitrosoureas can
produce a dose-related renal toxicity that can result in renal failure
and death.29 In patients developing clinical evidence of toxicity,
increases in serum creatinine usually appear after the completion
of therapy and may be first detected up to 2 years after treatment.

Interstitial Pneumonitis and Pulmonary
Fibrosis
Long-term busulfan therapy can lead to the gradual onset of fever,
a nonproductive cough, and dyspnea, followed by tachypnea and
cyanosis, and progressing to severe pulmonary insufficiency and
death.30 If busulfan is stopped before the onset of clinical symptoms, pulmonary function may stabilize, but if clinical symptoms
are manifest, the condition may be rapidly fatal. Cyclophosphamide, bischloroethylnitrosourea, and methyl-1-(2-chloroethyl)-3cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea in cumulative doses exceeding 1,000 mg/
m2 may also lead to similar side effects.31 Other alkylating agents,
including melphalan, chlorambucil, and mitomycin C, can lead
to pulmonary fibrosis after therapy.32 This effect is probably caused
by a direct cytotoxicity of the alkylating agent to pulmonary epithelium, resulting in alveolitis and fibrosis.

Gonadal Toxicity, Teratogenesis, and
Carcinogenesis
Alkylating agents can have profound toxic effects on reproductive
tissue.33 A depletion of testicular germ (but not Sertoli) cells is accompanied by aspermia. In patients with a total absence of germ
cells, an increase in plasma levels of follicle-stimulating hormone
occurs. However, patients in remission and off alkylating agents
for 2 to 7 years show complete spermatogenesis, indicating that
testicular damage is reversible.
In women, a high incidence of amenorrhea and ovarian atrophy is associated with cyclophosphamide or melphalan therapy.34
This seems to be age related because it developed after lower doses
in older compared with younger patients, and was less likely to
be reversible in the older cohort. A pathologic analysis reveals the
absence of mature or primordial follicles, and endocrinology studies demonstrate decreased estrogen and progesterone levels and
elevated serum follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone levels typical of menopause.
The DNA-damaging properties of alkylating agents ensure that
they are all teratogenic and carcinogenic to some degree. The
administration of alkylating agents during the first trimester of
pregnancy presents a definitive risk of a malformed fetus, but the
administration of such drugs during the second and third trimesters
does not increase the risk of fetal malformation above normal.35
Development of second cancer as a consequence of alkylating
agent therapy has been documented. For example, a fulminant
acute myeloid leukemia characterized by a preceding phase of
myelodysplasia is found in some patients treated with melphalan, cyclophosphamide (which is much less leukemogenic than
melphalan), chlorambucil, and the nitrosoureas.33 This circumstance probably reflects the fact that these have been the most

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

more restricted clinical use. Because of early successes, many
disease states are managed with drug combinations that contain
several alkylating agents. Cyclophosphamide is employed to treat
a variety of immune-related diseases and to purge bone marrow
in autologous marrow transplant situations.25 A general summary
of the clinical uses of the primary alkylating agents is shown in
Table 17.1.

195

196

Cancer Therapeutics

widely used of the alkylating agents. Also, the preponderance of
patients with multiple myeloma, Hodgkin lymphoma, and carcinoma of the ovary in the reports of leukemogenesis is probably
because patients with these diseases may have good responses and
are often treated with alkylating agents for a number of years. The
rate of occurrence of acute leukemia in patients with ovarian cancer who survive for 10 years after treatment with alkylating agents
might be as high as 10%. Acute leukemia has been the most frequently described second malignancy, and it usually develops 1 to
4 years after drug exposure.36 Other malignancies, including solid
tumors, also have been reported to develop in patients treated with
alkylating agents.37
The last four decades have yielded a significant improvement
in the survival of children diagnosed with cancer (5-year survival
is approximately 80%). As many as two-thirds of the survivors of
childhood malignancies can experience delayed drug toxicities
that may be severe or even life threatening. Such complications
include impairment in growth and development, neurocognitive
dysfunction, cardiopulmonary compromise, endocrine dysfunction, renal impairment, gastrointestinal dysfunction, musculoskeletal sequelae, and second cancers.38

Alopecia
The degree of alopecia after cyclophosphamide administration
may be quite severe, especially when this drug is used in combination with vincristine sulfate or doxorubicin hydrochloride.39
Regrowth of hair inevitably occurs after the cessation of therapy,
but may be associated with a change in the color and greater curl.
Use of a tourniquet or ice pack applied to the scalp during and
for a short period after cyclophosphamide administration reduces
the impact.

Allergic Reactions
Alkylating agents covalently bind to proteins, and these conjugates
can act as haptens and produce allergic reactions.40 An increasing number of reports of skin eruption, angioneurotic edema, urticaria, and anaphylactic reactions after the systemic administration
of alkylating agents have appeared.

regimens in which bone marrow toxicity is expected, and is accommodated by bone marrow transplantation, stem cell reconstitution from peripheral blood monocytes, and growth factor rescue.
In this high-dose setting, toxicities that affect the gut, lungs, liver,
and CNS become dose limiting and life threatening.42 The highly
lipid-soluble alkylators, especially ifosfamide, busulfan, the nitrosoureas, and thiotepa, cause CNS dysfunction, including seizures,
altered mental status, cerebellar dysfunction, cranial nerve palsies,
and coma.43 High-dose ifosfamide is most frequently the cause of
neurotoxicity.44 Clinical manifestations of grade 4 neurotoxicities
were reported in approximately one-fourth of those patients receiving ifosfamide. The side-chain N-linked chloroethyl moiety of
ifosfamide (see Table 17.1) is more likely than the bischloroethyl
group of cyclophosphamide to undergo oxidation and subsequent
N-deethylation and lead to the formation of chloroacetaldehyde.
High-dose busulfan is also frequently used in a variety of conditioning regimens for hematopoietic cell transplantation. In this setting,
busulfan causes neurotoxicity manifesting in seizures that generally
are tonic–clonic in character. Phenytoin has been the preferred
drug to treat busulfan-induced seizures, although some emerging
clinical data support the use of benzodiazepines, most notably
clonazepam and lorazepam, to prevent busulfan-induced seizures.
Moreover, the second-generation antiepileptic drug levetiracetam
possesses the characteristics of optimal prophylaxis for busulfaninduced seizures.45 At least one recent study has suggested that a
polymorphism in the glutathione S-transferase A2 family may be
predictive of transplant-related mortality after allogeneic stem cell
transplantation,46 perhaps indicating that a pharmacogenetic approach might be possible in this disease setting. Moreover, in a
preclinical setting, a proteomic analysis identified thioredoxin as
a potentially important adjuvant therapy in enhancing donor cell
graft enhancement in bone marrow transplantation.47 The possibility that this approach may benefit patients following alkylating
agent–based ablation remains to be tested in a clinical setting.
Cyclophosphamide at doses exceeding 100 mg/kg during a
48-hour period (preparatory to bone marrow transplantation) can
cause cardiac toxicity.48 No evidence exists for cumulative damage to the heart after repeated moderate or low doses of the drug.
Cardiac toxicity occurs with greatest frequency in patients older
than 50 years or in those previously treated with anthracyclines.48

ALKYLATING AGENT–STEROID
CONJUGATES

Immunosuppression
Alkylating agents suppress both humoral and cellular immunity
in a variety of experimental systems.41 The most immunosuppressive is cyclophosphamide, reported to cause (1) selective suppression of B-lymphocyte function, (2) depletion of B-lymphocytes,
and (3) suppression of lymphocyte functions that are mediated
by T cells, such as the graft-versus-host response and delayed
hypersensitivity. Most intermittent antitumor regimens do not
uniformly produce profound immunosuppression, and recovery
is usually prompt. Sustained drug treatments can lead to severe
lymphocyte depletion and profound immunosuppression and
may be accompanied by an increase of viral, fungal, and protozoal
infections.41

COMPLICATIONS WITH HIGH-DOSE
ALKYLATING AGENT THERAPY
At standard doses, alkylating agents produce myelosuppression
as their dose-limiting toxicity. Less severe effects on the gastrointestinal epithelium, lungs, bladder, and kidneys may become
problems with long-term treatment, but rarely limit initial therapy. For this reason, and because of their steep dose response to
tumor-killing curves, the alkylating agents have become a logical
tool, either alone or in combination, for high-dose chemotherapy

Adapting the rationale that steroid receptors may function to
localize and concentrate attached drug species intracellularly in
hormone-responsive cancers, a number of synthetic conjugates of
nitrogen mustards and steroids have been developed. Of these, two
made the transition into clinical use.
Prednimustine is an ester-linked conjugate of chlorambucil
and prednisolone designed to function as a prodrug for chlorambucil. Release of the alkylating agent occurs after cleavage
by serum esterases,49 which can release the ester link of prednimustine, producing the hormone and active alkylating drug.
The elimination phase of chlorambucil in patient plasma is significantly longer after the administration of prednimustine than
after chlorambucil. Estramustine is a carbamate ester–linked
conjugate of nor-nitrogen mustard and estradiol. Unlike prednimustine, the pharmacology of estramustine is governed by the
presence of the carbamate group in the steroid–mustard linkage. The relative resistance of the carbamate bond to enzymatic
cleavage eliminates the alkylating activity of the molecule and
conveys an entirely new pharmacology.50 The crystal structural
and mechanism of action studies showed that estramustine has
antimitotic activity, an activity shared by some other steroids.51
Estramustine has found a clinical niche used in combination
with other antimitotic drugs in the management of hormone refractory prostate cancer.52

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

DRUG RESISTANCE AND MODULATION
As with all drugs, intrinsic or acquired resistance to alkylating
agents occurs and limits the therapeutic utility of this class of
anticancer drugs.53 A plethora of preclinical studies have characterized mechanisms by which cells develop resistance and, to a lesser
degree, these have been shown to occur clinically. Because alkylating agents have a narrow therapeutic index, the emergence of
resistance can have a significant impact on clinical success. Some
of the factors that can contribute to the expression of resistance to
alkylating agents include (1) alterations in drug uptake or transport,
(2) increased repair of drug-induced nucleic acid damage, (3) failure to activate alkylating agent prodrugs, (4) increased scavenging
of drug species by nonessential cellular nucleophiles, (5) increased
enzymatic detoxification of drug species, and (6) altered expression
of genes coding for cellular commitment to apoptosis.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
In the era of directed targeted therapies, the lack of specificity of
alkylating agents would seem to limit the likelihood that novel
drugs will be forthcoming. High toxicities, narrow therapeutic indices, and chemical instabilities are all properties that consign this
drug class to the lower echelons of popularity in drug-discovery
platforms. Although covalent bonding to specific target sites is one
approach to direct targeting, the random electrophilic attraction
toward nucleic acids and proteins is not an optimal property by
today’s standards. Nevertheless, the relative success of the alkylating agents in gaining therapeutic responses to diseases that are
difficult to treat continues to serve as an impetus to use alkylating moieties as a means to kill cells. Some novel agents are presently in development. Cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide were
prodrugs synthesized in the hope that high levels of phosphoamidase in epithelial tumors would selectively activate the drugs.27
Other efforts to improve selectivity have centered on the synthesis
of antibody–enzyme conjugates that bind to tumor-specific surface antigens. Enzymes frequently associated with the cell surface
include peptidases, nitroreductases, and γ-glutamyl transpeptidase; to some degree, each has been targeted to cleave circulating
alkylating prodrugs, thereby in a localized fashion releasing active alkylating species. Antibody-directed enzyme prodrug therapy
is exemplified by the use of an antibody linked to the peptidase
carboxypeptidase G-2, which releases an active alkylator from an
inactive γ-glutamyl conjugate.54 Linkage of the peptidase to any
antibody that localizes selectively to a tumor cell membrane is a
viable option. Expression of the peptidase on the cell surface then
leads to prodrug activation and cell kill. Such approaches have
had limited clinical impact to this time; however, their development does continue.
A further rationale for enhancing tumor-specific delivery
takes advantage of the observation that glutathione-S-transferase
pi (GSTP1-1) is preferentially expressed in a number of solid tumors and some lymphomas. In this case, the prodrug consists of an
unusual alkylating agent conjugated to a substituted glutathione
peptidomimetic. GSTP initiates the cleavage, thereby creating a
cytotoxic alkylating species.55 The initial canfosfamide design strategy relied on the principle that proton-abstracting sites at the active
site of GST could initiate a cleavage reaction that would convert
an inactive prodrug into a cytotoxic species. The presence of a histidine residue in proximity to the G binding site was integral to the
removal of the sulfhydryl proton from the GSH cosubstrate, resulting in the generation of a nucleophilic sulfide anion. This moiety
would be more reactive with electrophiles in the absence of GSH.
Unlike other standard nitrogen mustard drugs, canfosfamide contains a tetrakis (chloroethyl) phosphorodiamidate moiety. Other
compounds bearing this structure have been shown to be more
cytotoxic than a similar structure with a single bis-(chloroethyl)
amine group.56

197

As in other nitrogen mustards, the chlorines can act as leaving groups, thus creating aziridinium ions with electrophilic
characteristics. Although the exact temporal or sequential formation of the four possible chlorine leaving events is not known,
the assumption is that these species possess cytotoxic properties
through their capacity to alkylate target nucleophiles, such as
DNA bases. Tetrafunctionality could result in the formation of
cross-links with bonding distances greater than for bifunctional
agents. However, a number of caveats apply to this interpretation.
For example, alkylating agents, whether mono-, bi-, or putatively
tetrafunctional, generally lead to some form of myelosuppression. A number of clinical trials with canfosfamide have now been
completed. These include, phase 1,57 phase 1/2a,58 phase 2,59 and
phase 3.60 The phase 3 study was in platinum refractory ovarian
cancer patients and proved negative for enhanced survival. Nevertheless, additional trials are still in progress.
Another targeting approach delivers the gene for a cytochrome
P-450 isoenzyme to tumors by viral vector, thereby enhancing specific tumor cell activation of cyclophosphamide.61 Because this
therapy has its base in gene delivery technologies, successful development in humans will await further advances in this arena.
Laromustine is in the sulfonylhydrazine class of alkylating
agents. It is presently in clinical development for the treatment of
malignancies such as acute myelogenous leukemia (AML).62 Similar to nitrosoureas, laromustine is a prodrug that yields a chloroethylating and a carbamoylating (methyl isocyanate) species. As with
nitrosoureas, the cytotoxicity of laromustine is attributed primarily
to the chloroethylating-mediated alkylation of DNA and subsequent
interstrand cross-links.63 The carbamoylating species can inhibit
DNA repair and other cellular enzyme systems. Phase 1 trials in patients with solid tumors indicated the expected myelosuppression,
although few extramedullary toxicities were observed, indicating
potential efficacy in the treatment of hematologic malignancies.
Phase 2 trials have been completed in patients with untreated AML,
high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome, and relapsed AML. The most
encouraging results have been found in patients older than 60 years
with poor-risk, de novo AML for which no standard treatment exists. Laromustine is currently in phase 2/3 trials for AML and phase
2 trials for myelodysplastic syndrome and solid tumors.64 Laromustine appears to be a promising agent in elderly patients who do not
respond to or are not fit for intensive chemotherapy.
Although not a new drug, bendamustine is a unique cytotoxic
agent with structural similarities to alkylating agents and antimetabolites, but it lacks cross-resistance with other established alkylating agents both in vitro and in the clinic.65 Its mechanism of
action is similar to other mustards in causing DNA intra- and interstrand cross-links. In comparison with other more commonly used
alkylating agents, such as cyclophosphamide or phenylalanine
mustard, more DNA double-strand breaks are formed at equitoxic
dosages. Treatment with bendamustine induces a concentrationdependent apoptosis as evidenced by changes in Bcl-2 and Bax expression profiles in chronic B-cell lymphocytic leukemia.66 DNA
damage produced by bendamustine is repaired via base-excision
repair mechanisms, implicating an unusual mode of action,
which was recently confirmed through gene expression profiling
analyses. This also provided an explanation for the lack of crossresistance with other alkylating agents, as observed in vitro with
anthracycline-resistant breast cancer and cisplatin-resistant ovarian cancer.66,67
Clinical studies conducted in Germany more than 30 years
ago suggested activity in indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Subsequent American trials showed responses in more than 70% of
patients with drug refractory disease, with the implication that
bendamustine may be the most effective drug in this patient population. Combinations of bendamustine and rituximab elicited
response rates of 90% to 92%, with complete remission in 55%
to 60% in follicular and mantle cell lymphoma. Superiority over
chlorambucil in previously untreated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) led to its recent approval for this disease

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Chapter 17 Alkylating Agents

198

Cancer Therapeutics

in the United States. Bendamustine is approved in Germany for
the treatment of patients with indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma,
CLL, and multiple myeloma. Activity has also been noted in patients with breast cancer and non–small-cell lung cancer.
Bendamustine has been used both as a single agent and in
combination with other agents, including etoposide, fludarabine,
mitoxantrone, methotrexate, prednisone, rituximab, and vincristine. A multicenter phase 2 trial in lymphomas had an overall
response rate of 89%; (35% complete response and 54% partial
response). In previously treated patients. the overall response rate
was 76% (38% complete response and 38% partial response).
The estimated median progression-free survival was 19 months.67
In CLL patients, the drug is administered at 100 mg/m2 intravenously over 30 minutes on days 1 and 2 of a 28-day cycle, for
up to six cycles. Efficacy relative to first-line therapies other than
chlorambucil has not been established. It is also indicated for
the treatment of patients with indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma that has progressed during, or within, 6 months of treatment with rituximab or rituximab-containing regimens. As with

S E L E C T E D
The full reference list can be accessed at lwwhealthlibrary.com/oncology.
1. Adair FE, Bagg HJ. Experimental and clinical studies on the treatment of
cancer by dichlorethylsulphide (mustard gas). Ann Surg 1931;93(1):190–199.
6. Elson LA. Hematological effects of the alkylating agents. Ann N Y Acad Sci
1958;68(3):826–833.
10. Vistica DT. Cytotoxicity as an indicator for transport mechanism: evidence
that murine bone marrow progenitor cells lack a high-affinity leucine
carrier that transports melphalan in murine L1210 leukemia cells. Blood
1980;56(3):427–429.
13. Zhang F, Zhang L, Jing L, et al. (2013) High-dose cyclophosphamide compared with antithymocyte globulin for treatment of acquired severe aplastic
anemia. Exp Hematol 2013;41:328–334.
19. Schein PS, O’Connell MJ, Blom J, et al. Clinical antitumor activity and
toxicity of streptozotocin (NSC-85998). Cancer 1974;34(4):993–1000.
29. Schacht RG, Feiner HD, Gallo GR, et al. Nephrotoxicity of nitrosoureas.
Cancer 1981;48(6):1328–1334.
31. Mark GJ, Lehimgar-Zadeh A, Ragsdale BD. Cyclophosphamide pneumonitis.
Thorax 1978;33(1):89–93.
34. Miller JJ 3rd, Williams GF, Leissring JC. Multiple late complications of
therapy with cyclophosphamide, including ovarian destruction. Am J Med
1971;50(4):530–535.
42. de Jonge ME, Huitema AD, Beijnen JH, et al. High exposures to bioactivated cyclophosphamide are related to the occurrence of veno-occlusive disease of the liver following high-dose chemotherapy. Br J Cancer 2006;94(9):
1226–1230.
45. Eberly AL, Anderson GD, Bubalo JS, et al. Optimal prevention of seizures induced by high-dose busulfan. Pharmacotherapy 2008;28(12):1502–1510.
46. Bonifazi F, Storci G, Bandini G, et al. Glutathione transferase-A2 S112T
polymorphism predicts survival, transplant-related mortality, busulfan and

most alkylating agents, the primary dose-limiting toxicity is myelosuppression; nonhematologic toxicities were mild and included
fatigue, nausea, loss of appetite, and vomiting. The optimization
of dose and schedule, particularly relative to other drugs, and the
management of toxicities has allowed its use in combination with
a range of other chemotherapeutic agents, including prednisone,
methotrexate, fludarabine, etoposide, mitoxantrone, vinca alkaloids, and rituximab. The availability of bendamustine provides
another effective treatment option for patients with lymphoid
malignancies, frequently reducing the side effects of the more
standard cyclophosphamide, hydroxy doxorubicin, Oncovin, and
prednisone (CHOP) regimen.68 Recent approval by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration has allowed Cephalon, Inc. to market
bendamustine under the trade name Treanda and, in combination with mitoxantrone and rituximab, it is now standard of care in
indolent lymphomas. Trial results released in 2013 indicated that
this combination more than doubled the progression-free survival
in this disease69 and there is early evidence that there may be utility
in relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.70

R E F E R E N C E S
bilirubin blood levels after allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Haematologica 2014;99(1):172–179.
47. An N, Janech MG, Bland AM, et al. Proteomic analysis of murine bone
marrow niche microenvironment identifies thioredoxin as a novel agent for
radioprotection and for enhancing donor cell reconstitution. Exp Hematol
2013;41:944–956.
51. Punzi JS, Duax WL, Strong P, et al. Molecular conformation of estramustine
and two analogues. Mol Pharmacol 1992;41(3):569–576.
54. Friedlos F, Davies L, Scanlon I, et al. Three new prodrugs for suicide gene
therapy using carboxypeptidase G2 elicit bystander efficacy in two xenograft
models. Cancer Res 2002;62(6):1724–1729.
58. Sequist LV, Fidias PM, Temel JS, et al. Phase 1–2a multicenter dose-ranging
study of canfosfamide in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel as firstline therapy for patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. J Thorac
Oncol 2009;4(11):1389–1396.
61. Chase M, Chung RY, Chiocca EA. An oncolytic viral mutant that delivers
the CYP2B1 transgene and augments cyclophosphamide chemotherapy. Nat
Biotechnol 1998;16(5):444–448.
62. Vey N, Giles F. Laromustine (cloretazine). Expert Opin Pharmacother 2010;
11(4):657–667.
64. Schiller GJ, O’Brien SM, Pigneux A, et al. Single-agent laromustine, a novel
alkylating agent, has significant activity in older patients with previously untreated poor-risk acute myeloid leukemia. J Clin Oncol 2010;28(5):815–821.
69. van der Jagt R. Bendamustine for indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma in the
front-line or relapsed setting: a review of pharmacokinetics and clinical trial
outcomes. Expert Rev Hematol 2013;6:525–537.
70. Ponisch W, Heyn S, Beck J, et al. Lenalidomide, bendamustine and prednisolone exhibits a favourable safety and efficacy profile in relapsed or refractory
multiple myeloma: final results of a phase 1 clinical trial OSHO - #077. Br J
Haematol 2013;162:202–209.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

18

Platinum Analogs

INTRODUCTION
The platinum drugs represent a unique and important class of antitumor compounds. Alone or in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents, cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (II) (cisplatin) and its
analogs have made a significant impact on the treatment of a variety
of solid tumors for nearly 40 years. The unique activity and toxicity
profile observed with cisplatin in early clinical trials fueled the development of platinum analogs that are less toxic and more active
against a variety of tumor types, including those that have developed
resistance to cisplatin. In addition to cisplatin, two other platinum
complexes are currently approved for use in the United States: cisdiamminecyclobutanedicarboxylate platinum (II) (carboplatin) and
1,2-diaminocyclohexaneoxalato platinum (II) (oxaliplatin). Several
other analogs with unique activities are in various stages of clinical development, and nedaplatin (Japan) and lobaplatin (China) are locally
registered. Progress in the development of superior analogs requires a
thorough understanding of the chemical, biologic, pharmacokinetic,
and pharmacodynamic properties of this important class of drugs.

HISTORY
The realization that platinum complexes exhibited antitumor activity began serendipitously in a series of experiments to investigate the
effect of electromagnetic radiation on the growth of bacteria, carried
out by Dr. Barnett Rosenberg and colleagues beginning in 1961.1,2
Exposure of the bacteria to an electric field resulted in a profound
change in their morphology; this effect was found not to be from the
electric field, but from electrolysis products produced by the platinum electrodes. An analysis of these products resulted in the identification of the cis-isomer of a platinum coordination complex as
the active compound. Tests of cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (II)
in mice bearing several model tumor types indicated that cisplatin
exhibited a broad spectrum of antitumor activity. Although early
clinical trials demonstrated responses in several tumor types, particularly testicular cancers, the severe renal and gastrointestinal
toxicity caused by the drug nearly led to its abandonment. Work
at Memorial Sloan-Kettering3,4 showed that these effects could be
ameliorated, in part, by aggressive prehydration, which rekindled
interest in its clinical use. Currently, cisplatin is curative in testicular cancer and significantly prolongs survival in combination
regimens for ovarian, lung, head and neck, bladder, and upper
gastrointestinal (GI) cancers. Its role is being reexamined in other
tumors, too, and especially breast cancer.

PLATINUM CHEMISTRY
Platinum exists primarily in either a 2+ or 4+ oxidation state.
These oxidation states dictate the stereochemistry of the ligands
surrounding the platinum atom. Platinum (II) compounds exhibit
a square planar geometry, in which the ammine ligands (also
called carrier groups) are relatively stable, whereas the opposite,
more polar ligands (leaving groups) are more easily displaced and

so confer reactivity toward charged macromolecules, including
DNA.5 The stereochemistry of platinum complexes is critical to
their antitumor activity as evidenced by the significantly reduced
efficacy observed with trans-diamminedichloroplatinum (II).
In an aqueous solution, the chloride leaving groups of cisplatin are subject to mono- and diaqua substitution, particularly at
chloride concentrations below 100 mmol, which characterize the
intracellular environment. The administration of cisplatin in high
chloride solutions (normal saline usually), therefore, contributes
to stability. Intracellular formation of partially and fully aquated
complexes creates the chloroaqua and hydroxoaqua cisplatin species that bind DNA.6

PLATINUM COMPLEXES AFTER CISPLATIN
Early in the clinical development of cisplatin, it became clear that
its toxicity was a limitation to its therapeutic effectiveness, and that
its activity, although striking in certain diseases, did not extend to
all cancers. These observations then motivated a search for structural analogs with less toxicity and a different profile of antitumor
activity. In addition, the side effects of cisplatin stimulated the development of antiemetics and other supportive care measures for
use with chemotherapy. Progress in understanding the chemistry
and pharmacokinetics of cisplatin has guided the development
of new analogs. In general, modification of the chloride leaving
groups of cisplatin results in compounds with different pharmacokinetics and reactivity towards DNA, whereas modification of
the carrier ligands alters the activity of the resulting complex. The
features of the more important platinum analogs that have been
developed are shown in Figure 18.1.

Carboplatin
The carboplatin molecule has the same ammine carrier ligands
as cisplatin. Using a murine screen for nephrotoxicity, Harrap and
Calvert discovered that substituting a cyclobutanedicarboxylate moiety for the two chloride ligands of cisplatin resulted in a complex
with reduced renal toxicity. This observation was translated to the
clinic in the form of carboplatin, a more stable and pharmacokinetically predictable analog.7,8 The results in humans were accurately
predicted by the animal models, and marrow toxicity rather than
nephrotoxicity was the principal side effect. At effective doses, carboplatin produced less nausea, vomiting, nephrotoxicity, and neurotoxicity than cisplatin. Furthermore, the myelosuppression was
closely associated with the pharmacokinetics. The work of Calvert
et al.9 and Egorin and colleagues10 showed that toxicity can be made
more predictable and dose intensity less variable by dosing strategies
based on the exposure. Carboplatin was shown to be indistinguishable from cisplatin in its clinical activity in all but a handful of tumor
types and is the most frequently used form of platinum in current
use. Cisplatin and carboplatin have almost superimposable profiles
of activity in the NCI60 cell line screen, which further emphasizes
the dependence of spectrum of activity on the carrier ligand.

199

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Peter J. O’Dwyer and A. Hilary Calvert

200

Cancer Therapeutics
O
NH3

NH3

Cl

O

C

H3N

Pt

Pt
Cl

NH3

NH3

O

C

H 3N

O

NH3
Pt

C

O

NH2 O

CH3

O

CH3

OCOCH3
Cl

O

Lobaplatin

AMD473

OH
Cl

Pt
NH2

NH2 O
Pt

C

Oxaliplatin

NH3

Cl

N

Pt
NH2

O

Cl

O
O

O

Nedaplatin

Carboplatin

NH2

O
Pt

NH3
Pt

Cl
OCOCH3

NH2

JM216

Cl
OH

JM335

4+
NH2(CH2)6 NH2

NH3
Pt
Cl

NH3

NH3

Pt
NH3

NH3

Cl
Pt

NH2(CH2)6 NH2

NH3
Figure 18.1 Structures of cisplatin, analogs, lobaplatin, and

BBR3464

nedaplatin.

Oxaliplatin
Compounds with activity in cisplatin-resistant models emerged
from modifications to the carrier group (see left side of the analogs
in Fig. 18.1). Connors, in the late 1960s, synthesized platinum coordination compounds with varying physicochemical characteristics and found that the series that possessed a diaminocyclohexane
(DACH) carrier group was active in models of cancer in vitro11
and in vivo.12 Subsequent studies supported the idea that DACHbased platinum complexes were non–cross-resistant with cisplatin,
and DACH derivatives exhibited a unique cytotoxicity profile compared to cisplatin and carboplatin in the National Cancer Institute
60 cell line screen.13–15 After a number of delays, a DACH analog
that had been synthesized by Kidani and colleagues in the early
1970s, was developed in the clinic.13 Oxaliplatin, a coordination
compound of a DACH carrier group and an oxalato leaving group,
was active in cisplatin-resistant tumor models. Like cisplatin, oxaliplatin preferentially forms adducts at the N7 position of guanine
and, to a lesser extent, adenine. However, there is evidence that
the three-dimensional structure of the DNA adducts and biologic
response(s) they elicit are different from those of cisplatin. Oxaliplatin demonstrated activity in combination with 5-fluorouracil
and leucovorin in colon cancer, a disease that is unresponsive to
cisplatin. This finding validated the focus on cisplatin-resistant

preclinical models to identify new active molecules. Oxaliplatin
is approved for the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer, and
enhances cure rates in the adjuvant setting. The therapeutic role
of oxaliplatin has been found to extend to pancreatic, gastric, and
esophageal cancers, in all of which it is the more active platinum
derivative.

Nedaplatin and Lobaplatin
Nedaplatin is cis-diammineglycolatoplatinum, developed as a less
nephrotoxic second-generation platinum analog, has been shown
to be active in a range of tumors similar to that of cisplatin and carboplatin.16 As a diammine structure, nedaplatin would fall among
the cisplatin analogs analyzed in the NCI60 cell line screen,17 and
this activity is therefore anticipated. Lobaplatin is a platinum (II)
complex in which the leaving group is lactic acid and the stable
ammine ligand is 1,2-bis(aminomethyl)cyclobutane. In a similar
way to oxaliplatin the stable ammine ligand may convey some
non–cross-resistance compared to cisplatin or carboplatin. It is
licensed in China for the breast cancer, small-cell lung cancer,
and chronic myelogenous leukemia. It is unique among the platinum drugs for its approval for breast cancer, but there are few published clinical data and no randomized trials. It has not achieved
approval in the United States or Europe.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 18 Platinum Analogs

The octahedral stereochemistry adopted by platinum (IV) compounds has led investigators to speculate that they may exhibit a
different spectrum of activity than that of platinum (II) drugs. Two
compounds that were tested clinically without much success are ormaplatin and iproplatin. Two other platinum (IV) compounds that
exhibit novel structural features, satraplatin (previously JM216)
and JM335 (trans-ammine[cyclohexylamine]dichlorodihydroxo
platinum [IV]), underwent more limited development. Satraplatin
was the first orally active platinum compound, and showed some
activity in lung and ovarian cancers, but despite promising activity
in prostate cancer, a phase III trial was not successful.18,19
An approach based on the chemistry of the platinum-DNA
interaction led to design and synthesis by Farrell et al.20 of a novel
class of compounds containing multiple platinum atoms (see
Fig. 18.1). These bi- and trinuclear structures form adducts that
span greater distances across the minor groove of DNA and have
a profile of cell kill that differs from that of the small molecules.
These compounds are unique in that their interaction with DNA
is considerably different from that of cisplatin, particularly in the
abundance of interstrand cross-links formed. Clinical development of candidate compounds is at a preliminary stage.
Efforts have been made to design novel platinum analogs that
can circumvent putative cisplatin resistance mechanisms. An
example is cis-amminedichloro(2-methylpyridine) platinum (II)
(also known as AMD473 and ZD0473). This compound is a
sterically hindered platinum complex that was designed to have
minimal reactivity with thiols and thus avoid inactivation by
molecules such as glutathione.21,22 Responses were identified
with its use in the clinic, but development was curtailed based on
low levels of activity. The recent description of a monofunctional
platinum (II) analog, phenanthriplatin, from the lab of Lippard is
potentially of great interest, based on both potency in vitro and a
mechanistic profile different from existing analogs.23 A renewed
appreciation that chemotherapeutic drugs have a continuing role
in managing cancer is likely to prompt additional clinical development of novel platinum structures.

does cisplatin. This has been interpreted to mean that oxaliplatin
lesions are more cytotoxic than those formed by cisplatin.
The differences observed in cytotoxicity between the diammine
(e.g., cisplatin, carboplatin) and DACH platinum compounds may
not depend on the type and relative amounts of the adducts formed,
but on the overall three-dimensional structure of the adduct and
its recognition by various cellular proteins. The major difference
between them is the protrusion of the DACH moiety of oxaliplatin
into the major groove of DNA, which thus produces a bulkier adduct than that of cisplatin. This bulkier, more hydrophobic adduct
seems to be recognized differently by cellular proteins involved in
sensing DNA damage.28 The functional consequences are twofold:
Proteins such as polymerases that recognize and participate in reactions on DNA under normal circumstances may be perturbed,
whereas processes that are controlled by proteins that recognize
damaged DNA may become activated (the DNA damage response).
The latter group of proteins function both in the DNA repair process and in cellular signaling toward cell survival/death decisions.

DNA Interstrand Cross-Links
Although the DNA adducts are well-recognized to result in G-G
interstrand cross-links, like classical alkylating agents, platinum
drugs have the capacity to form intrastrand cross-links, albeit to a
lesser degree. By blocking essential aspects of DNA metabolism,
such as replication and transcription, intrastrand cross-links are
highly cytotoxic. Recent studies have drawn attention both to the
cytotoxicity of these lesions, and their differing mechanisms of repair, both replication dependent and independent.29,30 These studies may have clinical implications in selecting patients for therapy
based on the repair competence of tumors.

CELLULAR RESPONSES TO PLATINUMINDUCED DNA DAMAGE

MECHANISM OF ACTION

Multiple cellular outcomes may follow the formation of platinumDNA adducts, including cell death by apoptosis, necrosis, or mitotic catastrophe, or cell survival by activation of various protective
mechanisms including DNA repair, DNA damage signaling pathways, cell cycle arrest, and autophagy (the last may have a dual
role, possibly context dependent).

DNA Adduct Formation

Cell Fate

DNA has long been thought to be the major therapeutic target
for platinum compounds. The cytotoxic effects are determined, in
part, by the structure and relative amount of DNA adducts formed.
Cisplatin and its analogs react preferentially at the N7 position
of guanine and adenine residues to form a variety of monofunctional and bifunctional adducts.24 The monoadducts may form
intrastrand or interstrand cross-links. The predominant lesions that
are formed when platinum compounds bind DNA are d(GpG)Pt
intrastrand cross-links. Cisplatin also forms interstrand cross-links
between guanine residues located on opposite strands, and these
account for less than 5% of the total DNA-bound platinum. The
formation of adducts and cross-links has been associated with therapeutic efficacy.25,26 These adducts may contribute to the drug’s
cytotoxicity because they impede certain cellular processes that
require the separation of both DNA strands, such as replication
and transcription. The adducts formed in the reaction between
carboplatin and DNA in cultured cells are essentially the same
as those of cisplatin; however, higher concentrations of carboplatin are required (20- to 40-fold for cells) to obtain equivalent total
platinum-DNA adduct levels due to its slower rate of aquation.27
Oxaliplatin intrastrand adducts form even more slowly due to a
slower rate of conversion from monoadducts; however, they are
formed at similar DNA sequences and regions as cisplatin adducts.
At equitoxic doses, oxaliplatin forms fewer DNA adducts than

The cellular effects following DNA binding by platinum drugs
have been analyzed. The studies of Sorenson and Eastman,31 using
DNA repair-deficient Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, indicated that passage through the S phase is necessary for G2 arrest
and cell death, which suggests that DNA replication on a damaged
template may result in the accumulation of further damage. An
aberrant mitosis was observed before apoptosis in this model.

DNA Damage Recognition
Among the initiation events that ultimately result in platinum
drug–induced cell death are the binding of platinum-DNA damage
recognition proteins, which then seed the accumulation of a large
protein complex capable both of DNA damage signaling (as to cell
cycle proteins to halt replication) and repair of the damaged DNA.
Among the DNA-binding proteins are the high-mobility group
proteins HMG1 and HMG2.32–34 These proteins are capable of
bending DNA as well as recognizing bent DNA structures, such as
that produced by cisplatin, and different specificities for cisplatin
and for oxaliplatin adducts are observed in structural studies.35,36
Other candidate platinum-DNA damage recognition proteins include histone H1, RNA polymerase I transcription upstream binding factor (hUBF), the TATA binding protein (TBP), and proteins

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Newer Platinum Structures

201

202

Cancer Therapeutics

involved in mismatch repair (MMR). The MMR complex has
been implicated in cisplatin sensitivity.37 Studies have shown that
the MSH2 and MLH1 proteins participate in the recognition
of DNA adducts formed by cisplatin, but not oxaliplatin, which
could contribute to differences in the cytotoxicity profiles observed
between these two platinum complexes.

DNA Damage Signaling
A number of signaling events have been shown to occur after
treatment of cells with platinum drugs.38 For example, the ATM- and
Rad3-related (ATR) proteins that are involved in cell-cycle checkpoint activation are activated by cisplatin. These kinases phosphorylate and activate several downstream effectors that regulate cell cycle,
DNA repair, cell survival, and apoptosis, including p53, CHK2, and
members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway
(extracellular signal-related kinase [ERK], c-Jun amino-terminal
kinase [JNK], and p38 kinase). Recent data especially implicate signaling through the JNK pathway, and inhibition at the level of JNK
seems especially relevant to platinum drug cytotoxicity in vitro and
in vivo.39,40 The pleiotropic nature of this stress response only grows,
because each of these molecules subsequently controls the activity
and expression of many more proteins. As a result of this complexity,
acting in the context of variable genomic tumor aberrations, therapeutic strategies directed to these pathways have been slow to emerge.
However, clinical trials to investigate specific inhibitors of DNA damage responses are underway and hold promise. It is also relevant to
point out that these signaling pathways affect not just the tumor cell,
but also may communicate to cells in the microenvironment, the
responses of which may also determine the effectiveness of therapy.

IS DNA THE ONLY TARGET?

Decreased
platinum
accumulation
NH2

The major limitation to the successful treatment of solid tumors
with platinum-based chemotherapy is the emergence of drugresistant tumor cells.44 Developments in tumor biology have
advanced our thinking with regard to how and when these cells
emerge; heterogeneity within a tumor even at its earliest diagnosis
reflects the emergence of treatment-resistant clones even in advance of selection pressure and the realization that resistance may
not be specific to the DNA-damaging drug. Indeed, this may be
reflected clinically in the finding that after progression on initial
chemotherapy, the use of second-line therapy is usually associated
with a shorter duration of response.
Currently described mechanisms of platinum drug resistance
(Fig. 18.2) include reduced cellular accumulation, intracellular
detoxification, repair of Pt-DNA lesions, increased damage tolerance, and the activation of cellular defense mechanisms such as
autophagy. In addition, we have already alluded to exogenous influences on mechanism, as may be mediated by other cells, metabolites, of physicochemical conditions (such as hypoxia) in the tumor
microenvironment. It must be acknowledged, however, that our
insights are very limited as to why some tumors respond and others
do not to platinum chemotherapy. As genome sequencing yields
increasing and often surprising revelations about the genes that drive
cancers and the complexity inherent in cancers of a single histologic
type, it is likely that when associated with outcomes in large patient
populations, patterns will emerge to guide selection of therapies.

Platinum uptake in cells occurs by simple diffusion and by carriermediated mechanisms. Inhibition of transport mechanisms has
a marked effect on intracellular platinum accumulation, and
Howell’s group has shown the importance of the copper transporters CTR-1 and CTR-2 in regulating the influx of various platinum
analogs in eukaryotic cells.45,46 The contribution of these mechanisms to clinical platinum drug resistance is being explored.47
Accumulation may also be influenced by enhanced efflux, and
various transport proteins are upregulated in cell lines selected for
acquired resistance, and in platinum-resistant ovarian cancers.

Inactivation
Platinum complexes are highly reactive molecules and bind rapidly
to multiple cellular macromolecules. Protection from such chemicals in the environment is afforded by cellular thiols, including
Increased
Pt-DNA adduct
repair

H2N

NH2

Pt
Cl

MECHANISMS OF RESISTANCE

Reduced Accumulation

Early analyses of the action of cytotoxic drugs included a probe
of whether effects on DNA were sufficient to explain drug effects.
A pioneer in this field was Tritton,41 who proposed that effects of
DNA-intercalating agents on the plasma membrane could underlie the cytotoxicity of the drug. More recently, enucleated cells
were shown to be susceptible to cisplatin, and a seminal paper
from Voest and colleagues showed that platinum sensitivity was
determined not solely by the accumulation of DNA damage in
the tumor cell.42 In analyzing the contribution of cells in the microenvironment of tumors, he showed that tumor infiltration with
mesenchymal stem cells could confer drug resistance. A search
for secreted factors defined platinum-induced fatty acids, metabolic products in the thromboxane synthetase, and cyclooxygenase-1 pathways as determining the effectiveness of drug therapy.
A proteomic study in cisplatin-sensitive and -resistant cells confirmed the substantial effects of drug exposure on lipid metabolites
and their relation to susceptibility. A current focus on therapies

H 2N

directed to the microenvironment, including immunologic and
anti-inflammatory interventions,43 has the potential to expand our
ability to apply platinum drugs in the clinic.

H2N

NH2

Pt

Pt

DNA ADDUCTS

CELL DEATH

Cl

CISPLATIN

Cisplatin
inactivation

Pt-DNA
damage
tolerance

Figure 18.2 Cellular mechanisms of cisplatin resistance.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 18 Platinum Analogs

Increased DNA Repair
Once platinum-DNA adducts are formed, cells must either repair
or tolerate the damage to survive. In general, the capacity to repair
DNA damage seems to play a role in determining a tumor cell’s
sensitivity to platinum drugs and other DNA-damaging agents. For
example, tumors that are unusually sensitive to cisplatin, such as
testicular nonseminomatous germ cell tumors, may be deficient
in their ability to repair platinum-DNA adducts.52 The increased
repair of platinum-DNA lesions in cisplatin-resistant cell lines as
compared to their sensitive counterparts has been shown in several human cancer cell lines, but translation of these observations
to the clinic has been difficult. The repair of platinum-DNA adducts appears to occur predominantly by nucleotide excision repair (NER), with a role for MMR under certain circumstances.53
The molecular basis for the increased repair activity observed in
cisplatin-resistant cells is not known precisely, but formation of the
ERCC1/XPF protein complex may be a key step. Selvakumaran
et al.54 showed that the downregulation of ERCC-1 using an antisense approach sensitized a platinum-resistant cell line to cisplatin
both in vitro and in vivo. There is substantial clinical evidence
that implicates ERCC1 expression in increased NER and cisplatin
resistance, and high expression of ERCC1 has been demonstrated
to confer a worse outcome after cisplatin treatment in several resistant tumors. The most extensive study of this as a marker has
been in non–small-cell lung cancer, results in which were summarized and analyzed by Hubner et al.55 In gastric cancer also,
high levels of ERCC1 are associated with resistance to cisplatin
treatment.56–58 However, a recent reevaluation of discrepant results
questioned the reliability of the assays of ERCC1 and their relationship to function.59 These data suggest that there is a relationship between ERCC1 expression and treatment, but that the lag
in marker development precludes implementation of a predictive
assay until additional studies have been performed.
Perhaps the most striking evidence that DNA repair is a determinant of platinum drug responses is that breast and ovarian cancers
occurring in BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation carriers are particularly
responsive to cisplatin or carboplatin. These cancers are also sensitive to inhibitors of poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase (PARPi), several
of which are currently in clinical development. The mechanism
of the sensitivity to PARPi has been elucidated. Both the BRCA1
and 2 proteins for part of the homologous recombination repair
(HR) system that achieves error-free repair of double strand breaks.
Carriers are heterozygous and, therefore, have normal repair function, but loss of the second allele leads to the use of error-prone
backup systems and is therefore oncogenic. The cancers that arise
are unable to perform HR and, therefore, are sensitive to drugs
that induce single strand breaks, such as PARPi.60,61 A mechanism
of resistance to PARPi has been described, which is due to reactivation of the function of the BRCA2 leading to restoration of HR
and sensitivity to PARPi.62 This reactivation is accomplished by an
intragenic deletion and the restoration of an open reading frame.

It has further been shown that such revertant cells are resistant to
cisplatin as well as PARPi. Finally, recurrent cancers in BRCA2
mutation carriers, which have acquired platinum resistance, have
been shown to have undergone reversion of the BRCA2 mutation.63 This clearly shows that the HR system can be one cause
of cisplatin resistance. However, not all cisplatin-resistant patients
are also resistant to PARPi,64 showing that there are multiple other
causes of cis/carboplatin resistance.
Combinations of platinum drugs with PARPi are being actively
pursued in patients with BRCA-related tumors and also in patients
whose tumors are likely to have acquired loss of HR function (poorly
differentiated serous ovarian cancer and triple negative breast cancer).

Autophagy
After platinum-DNA adduct formation, the cell detects the DNA
damage and initiates signaling through multiple pathways, the effects
of which include mobilization of repair proteins; arrest of the cell
cycle; altered transcriptional programs; redirection of energy production and consumption; activation of cell death pathways and, simultaneously, of pathways that would counter a cell death decision, and
so to permit survival. A process recently characterized to perform the
last function is autophagy. Initially described as a mechanism of cell
death, autophagy represents a regulated dissolution of cellular elements into a characteristic set of subcellular organelles detectable by
electron microscopy and linked by a particular profile of gene expression changes.65 Multiple stimuli precipitate these changes and have
in common scarcity of nutrients that are required for survival, from
oxygen and glucose withdrawal to less specific calorie deprivation, and
inhibition of metabolic pathways. Autophagy is also a consequence
of cytotoxic drug treatment and, more recently, has been appreciated
as a means by which cells might survive the stress of cellular insults,
and so become resistant to treatment.66 Amaravadi and colleagues67
demonstrated that autophagy reversal can sensitize tumors to cytotoxic drugs and several trials of platinum compounds along with the
autophagy inhibitor hydroxychloroquine are in progress.

Increased DNA Damage Tolerance
The net result of DNA damage signaling in a sensitive tumor cell
is engagement of cell death pathways, including apoptosis, and
therapeutic benefit. In a resistant tumor cell, the cell survives as
a consequence of one or many of these mechanisms, and this can
result in platinum-DNA damage tolerance or multidrug resistance
phenotype, or both. Contributors to the tolerance might include
deficient DNA MMR (which could excise the adduct if NER
failed), enhanced replicative bypass (which essentially ignores the
adduct, allowing the cell to survive, but could contribute to the
increase in mutation frequency observed in chemotherapy-treated
cancers), and altered signaling through stress-related kinases such
as JNK, which can both alter transcriptional programs and activate
autophagy. Indeed JNK, by phosphorylating Bcl-2 or Bcl-XL, and
releasing beclin-1 from inhibition, acts as a key switch to turn on
autophagy. The enhanced DNA damage tolerance, in addition to
permitting persistence of the cancer cell, may have an additional
deleterious effect by fostering further mutagenesis within the
tumor, facilitating its evolution to a more malignant phenotype.

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY
Pharmacokinetics
The pharmacokinetic differences observed between platinum
drugs may be attributed to the structure of their leaving groups.
Platinum complexes containing leaving groups that are less easily
displaced exhibit reduced plasma protein binding, longer plasma
half-lives, and higher rates of renal clearance. These features are

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

small peptides such as glutathione (GSH) and larger proteins as
exemplified by metallothionein (MT). There are many reports of
an association between platinum drug sensitivity and glutathione
levels48–50; however, reducing intracellular glutathione levels with
drugs such as buthionine sulfoximine has resulted in only low to
modest potentiation of cisplatin sensitivity.51 Buthionine sulfoximine was developed for clinical use, and some impact on GSH
content of tumors and normal tissues was demonstrated. However,
the depletion of GSH was not consistent, and ultimately, the cost
of producing the active stereoisomer of the drug was judged prohibitive. Inactivation of the platinum drugs may also occur through
binding to the MTs, a family of sulfhydryl-rich, low–molecularweight proteins that participate in heavy metal binding and detoxification; however, the contribution of MT to clinical platinum
drug resistance is unclear, and a therapeutic role has not emerged.

203

204

Cancer Therapeutics

TA B L E 1 8 . 1
Comparative Parmacokinetics of Platinum Analogs
After Bolus or Short Intravenous Infusion
Cisplatin

Carboplatin

Oxaliplatin

T1/2α
Total platinum
Ultrafiltrate

14–49 min
9–30 min

12–98 min
8–87 min

26 min
21 min

T1/2β
Total platinum
Ultrafiltrate

0.7–4.6 h
0.7–0.8 h

1.3–1.7 h
1.7–5.9 h

—
—

T1/2γ
Total platinum
Ultrafiltrate

24–127 h
—

8.2–40.0 h
—

38–47 h
24–27 h

Protein binding

>90%

24%–50%

85%

Urinary excretion

23%–50%

54%–82%

>50%

T1/2α, half-life of first phase; T1/2β, half-life of second phase; T1/2γ, half-life of
terminal phase.

evident in the pharmacokinetic properties of cisplatin, carboplatin, and oxaliplatin, which are summarized in Table 18.1. Platinum drug pharmacokinetics have been reviewed.68

Cisplatin
After intravenous infusion, cisplatin rapidly diffuses into tissues
and is covalently bound to plasma protein. More than 90% of
platinum is bound to plasma protein at 4 hours after infusion.
The disappearance of ultrafilterable platinum is rapid and occurs
in a biphasic fashion. Half-lives of 10 to 30 minutes and 0.7 to
0.8 hours have been reported for the initial and terminal phases,
respectively. Cisplatin excretion is dependent on renal function,
which accounts for the majority of its elimination. The percentage
of platinum excreted in the urine has been reported to be between
23% and 40% at 24 hours after infusion. Only a small percentage
of the total platinum is excreted in the bile.

Carboplatin
The differences in pharmacokinetics observed between cisplatin
and carboplatin depend primarily on the slower rate of conversion
of carboplatin to a reactive species. Thus, the stability of carboplatin results in a low incidence of nephrotoxicity. Carboplatin diffuses rapidly into tissues after infusion; however, it is considerably
more stable in plasma. Only 24% of a dose was bound to plasma
protein at 4 hours after infusion. The disappearance of platinum
from plasma after short intravenous infusions of carboplatin has
been reported to occur in a biphasic or triphasic manner. The initial half-lives for total platinum, which vary considerably among
several studies, are listed in Table 18.1. The half-lives for total platinum range from 12 to 98 minutes during the first phase (T1/2α)
and from 1.3 to 1.7 hours during the second phase (T1/2β). Halflives reported for the terminal phase range from 8.2 to 40 hours.
The disappearance of ultrafilterable platinum is biphasic with
T1/2α and T1/2β values ranging from 7.6 to 87 minutes and 1.7
to 5.9 hours, respectively. Carboplatin is excreted predominantly
by the kidneys, and cumulative urinary excretion of platinum is
54% to 82%, most as unmodified carboplatin. The renal clearance
of carboplatin is closely correlated with the glomerular filtration
rate (GFR).69 This observation enabled Calvert et al.9 to design a
carboplatin-dosing formula based on the individual patient’s GFR.

Oxaliplatin
After oxaliplatin infusion, platinum accumulates into three compartments: plasma-bound platinum, ultrafilterable platinum, and

platinum associated with erythrocytes. When specific and sensitive
mass spectrometric techniques are used, oxaliplatin itself is undetectable in plasma, even at end infusion.70 The active forms of the
drug have not been extensively characterized. Approximately 85%
of the total platinum is bound to plasma protein at 2 to 5 hours
after infusion.71 Plasma elimination of total platinum and ultrafilterates is biphasic. The half-lives for the initial and terminal phases
are 26 minutes and 38.7 hours, respectively, for total platinum and
21 minutes and 24.2 hours, respectively, for ultrafilterable platinum (see Table 18.1).72 Thus, as with carboplatin, substantial differences between total and free platinum kinetics are not observed.
As with cisplatin, a prolonged retention of oxaliplatin is observed
in red blood cells. However, unlike cisplatin, oxaliplatin does not
accumulate to any significant level after multiple courses of treatment.71 This may explain why neurotoxicity associated with oxaliplatin is reversible. Oxaliplatin is eliminated predominantly by the
kidneys, with more than 50% of the platinum being excreted in the
urine at 48 hours.

Pharmacodynamics
Pharmacodynamics relates pharmacokinetic indices of drug exposure to biologic measures of drug effect, usually toxicity to normal tissues or tumor cell kill. Two issues to be addressed in such
studies are whether the effectiveness of the drug can be enhanced
and whether the toxicity can be attenuated by knowledge of the
platinum pharmacokinetics in an individual. These questions are
appropriate to the use of cytotoxic agents with relatively narrow
therapeutic indices. Toxicity to normal tissues can be quantitated
as a continuous variable when the drug causes myelosuppression. Thus, the early studies of carboplatin demonstrated a close
relationship of changes in platelet counts to the area under the
concentration-time curve (AUC) in the individual. The AUC was
itself closely related to renal function, which was determined as
creatinine clearance. Based on these observations, Egorin et al.,10
Calvert et al.,9 and Chatelut and colleagues73 derived formulas
based on creatinine clearance to predict either the percentage
change in platelet count or a target AUC. Application of pharmacodynamically guided dosing algorithms for carboplatin has been
widely adopted as a means of avoiding overdosage (by producing
acceptable nadir platelet counts) and of maximizing dose intensity
in the individual. There is good evidence that this approach can
decrease the risk of unacceptable toxicity. Accordingly, a dosing
strategy based on renal function is recommended for the use of
carboplatin.
A key question is whether maximizing carboplatin exposure in
an individual can measurably increase the probability of tumor
regression or survival. In an analysis by Jodrell et al.,74 carboplatin AUC was a predictor of response, thrombocytopenia, and
leukopenia. The likelihood of a tumor response increased with increasing AUC up to a level of 5 to 7 mg × hour per milliliter, after
which a plateau was reached. Similar results were obtained with
carboplatin in combination with cyclophosphamide, and neither
response rate nor survival was determined by the carboplatin AUC
in a cohort of ovarian cancer patients.75 As a result, most carboplatin recommended doses are based on an AUC in this range
(for every 3 to 4 week schedules), and modifications of these are
used for more frequent administration (as in combined chemoradiotherapy regimens).
The relationship of pharmacokinetics to response has been
sought by investigating the cellular pharmacology of these agents.76
The formation and repair of the platinum-DNA adducts in human
cells are not easily measured. Schellens and colleagues77,78 analyzed the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions of
cisplatin administered as a single agent. In a series of patients with
head and neck cancer, they found that cisplatin exposure (measured as the AUC) closely correlated with both the peak DNA
adduct content in leukocytes and the area under the DNA-adduct

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

time curve. These measures were important predictors of response,
both individually and in logistic regression analysis. However, as
an approach to determine who should or should not be treated
with platinum drugs, it seems more likely that genomic analyses
will provide guidance in the near future.

administer. Extensive hydration is not required because of the lack
of nephrotoxicity at standard dosages. Carboplatin is reconstituted
in chloride-free solutions (unlike cisplatin, because chloride can
displace the leaving groups) and administered over 30 minutes as a
rapid intravenous infusion.

Pharmacogenomics

Oxaliplatin (Eloxatin)

Variability in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of cytotoxic drugs is an important determinant of therapeutic index. This
interindividual variation may be attributed in part to genetic differences among patients. Targeted analyses of germ-line DNA and, increasingly, Genome‐wide association studies (GWAS) approaches,
have yielded genotypic features associated with results of therapy.
Detoxification pathways and DNA repair have emerged as having
markers attributable to response of lack of it in response to platinum
drugs. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in genes related
to glutathione metabolism and in several DNA repair genes have
been identified in lung cancer, breast cancer, and various GI cancers. A concern is that larger trials have not always confirmed early
findings. As yet, informative SNPs that could be used to define therapeutic strategies for individual patients have not yet been defined.

Oxaliplatin is also uncomplicated in its clinical administration.
For bolus infusion, the required dose is administered in 500 mL of
chloride-free diluent over a period of 2 hours. Oxaliplatin is most
frequently given as a single dose every 2 weeks (85 mg/m2) or every
3 weeks (130 mg/m2), alone or with other active agents. It is common to pretreat patients with active antiemetics, such as a 5-HT3
antagonist, but the nausea is not as severe as with cisplatin. No prehydration is required. Besides a relatively low incidence of myelosuppression, the predominant toxicity of oxaliplatin is cumulative
neurotoxicity. The development of an oropharyngeal dysesthesia,
often precipitated by exposure to cold, may require prolonging
the duration of administration to 6 hours. On occasion, the occurrence of hypersensitivity also requires slowing the infusion.

TOXICITY
FORMULATION AND ADMINISTRATION
Cisplatin (Platinol)
Cisplatin is administered in a chloride-containing solution intravenously over 0.5 to 2.0 hours. To minimize the risk of nephrotoxicity, patients are prehydrated with at least 500 mL of
salt-containing fluid. Immediately before cisplatin administration,
mannitol (12.5 to 25.0 g) is given parenterally to maximize urine
flow. A diuretic such as furosemide may be used also, along with
parenteral antiemetics. These currently include dexamethasone
together with a 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT3) antagonist. A minimum of 1 L of posthydration fluid is usually given. The intensity
of hydration varies somewhat with the dose of cisplatin. High-dose
cisplatin (up to 200 mg/m2 per course) may be administered in a
formulation containing 3% sodium chloride, but this method is
no longer widely used. Cisplatin may also be administered regionally to increase local drug exposure and diminish side effects. Its
intraperitoneal use was defined by Ozols et al.79 and by Howell and
colleagues.80 Measured drug exposure in the peritoneal cavity is
some 50-fold higher compared to levels achieved with intravenous
administration. At standard dosages in ovarian cancer patients with
low-volume disease, a randomized intergroup trial suggested that
intraperitoneal administration is superior to intravenous cisplatin
in combination with intravenous cyclophosphamide.81 The development of combinations of carboplatin and paclitaxel has, however, superseded this technique in the treatment of ovarian cancer,
and the intraperitoneal route is now infrequently used. Regional
uses also include intra-arterial delivery (as for hepatic tumors,
melanoma, and glioblastoma), but none have been adopted as a
standard method of treatment. There is growing interest in chemoembolization for the treatment of tumors confined to the liver, and
cisplatin is a component of many popular regimens.82

A substantial body of literature documents the side effects of platinum compounds. As noted in the section titled History, earlier in
this chapter, the toxicity of cisplatin was a driving force both in
the search for less toxic analogs and for more effective treatments
for its side effects, especially nausea and vomiting. The toxicities
associated with cisplatin, carboplatin, and oxaliplatin are described
in detail in the following sections and summarized in Table 18.2.
Please review the package inserts for these drugs for full prescribing information and delineation of toxic effects.

Cisplatin
The side effects associated with cisplatin (at single doses of more than
50 mg/m2) include nausea and vomiting, nephrotoxicity, ototoxicity, neuropathy, and myelosuppression. Rare effects include visual
impairment, seizures, arrhythmias, acute ischemic vascular events,
glucose intolerance, and pancreatitis. The nausea and vomiting
stimulated a search for new antiemetics. These effects are currently
best managed with 5-HT3 antagonists, usually given with a glucocorticoid, although other combinations of agents are still widely
used. In the weeks after treatment, continuous antiemetic therapy
may be required. Nephrotoxicity is ameliorated but not completely
prevented by hydration. The renal damage to both glomeruli and
tubules is cumulative, and after cisplatin treatment, serum creatinine levels are no longer a reliable guide to GFR. An acute elevation of serum creatinine level may follow a cisplatin dose, but this
index returns to normal with time. Tubule damage may be reflected
in a salt-losing syndrome that also resolves with time.

TA B L E 1 8 . 2
Toxicity Profiles of Platinum Analogs in Clinical Use

Carboplatin (Paraplatin)
Cisplatin treatment over 3 to 6 hours is burdensome for clinical
resources and tiring for cancer patients. Previously given as an
in-hospital treatment, it is now usually administered in the outpatient setting. The exigencies of the modern health-care environment have contributed to the expanding use of carboplatin as an
alternative to cisplatin except in circumstances in which cisplatin
is clearly the superior agent. Carboplatin is substantially easier to

Toxicity

Cisplatin

Myelosuppression

Carboplatin

Oxaliplatin

X

Nephrotoxicity

X

Neurotoxicity

X

Ototoxicity

X

Nausea and vomiting

X

X
X

X

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

205

Chapter 18 Platinum Analogs

206

Cancer Therapeutics

Ototoxicity is a cumulative and irreversible side effect of cisplatin treatment that results from damage to the inner ear. The initial
audiographic manifestation is loss of high-frequency acuity (4,000
to 8,000 Hz). When acuity is affected in the range of speech, cisplatin should be discontinued under most circumstances and carboplatin substituted where appropriate. Peripheral neuropathy is also
cumulative, although less common than with agents such as vinca
alkaloids. This neuropathy is usually reversible, although recovery
is often slow. A number of agents with the potential for protection
from neuropathy have been developed, but none is yet used widely.

Carboplatin
Myelosuppression, which is not usually severe with cisplatin, is
the dose-limiting toxicity of carboplatin. The drug is most toxic to
the platelet precursors, but neutropenia and anemia are frequently
observed. The lowest platelet counts after a single dose of carboplatin
are observed 17 to 21 days later, and recovery usually occurs by day 28.
The effect is dose dependent, but individuals vary widely in their susceptibility. As shown by Egorin et al.10 and Calvert et al.,9 the severity of
platelet toxicity is best accounted for by a measure of the drug exposure
in an individual, the AUC. Both groups derived pharmacologically
based formulas to predict toxicity and guide carboplatin dosing. That
of Calvert and colleagues targets a particular exposure to carboplatin:
Dose (mg) = target AUC (mg ∙ min/mL) × (GFR mL/min + 25)
This formula has been widely used to individualize carboplatin dosing and permits targeting an acceptable level of toxicity.
Patients who are elderly, have a poor performance status, or have
a history of extensive pretreatment have a higher risk of toxicity
even when dosage is calculated with these methods, but the safety
of drug administration has been enhanced. In the combination of
carboplatin and paclitaxel, AUC-based dosing has helped to maximize the dose intensity of carboplatin. Dosages some 30% higher
than those using a dosing strategy based solely on body surface area
may safely be used. A determination of whether this approach to
dosing improves outcomes will require a randomized trial.
The other toxicities of carboplatin are generally milder and
better tolerated than those of cisplatin. Nausea and vomiting,
although frequent, are less severe, shorter in duration, and more
easily controlled with standard antiemetics (i.e., prochlorperazine
[Compazine]), dexamethasone, lorazepam) than that after cisplatin
treatment. Renal impairment is infrequent, although alopecia is

S E L E C T E D
The full reference list can be accessed at lwwhealthlibrary.com/oncology.
2. Rosenberg B. Fundamental studies with cisplatin. Cancer 1985;55:2303–23l6.
4. Hayes D, Cvitkovic E, Golbey R, et al. High dose cis-platinum diamine dichloride: amelioration of renal toxicity by mannitol diuresis. Cancer 1977;39:
1372–1381.
8. Harrap K. Initiatives with platinum- and quinazoline-based antitumor
molecules—Fourteenth Bruce F. Cain Memorial Award Lecture. Cancer
Res 1995;55:2761–2768.
9. Calvert A, Newell D, Gumbrell L, et al. Carboplatin dosage: prospective evaluation of a simple formula based on renal function. J Clin Oncol
1989;7:1748–1756.
10. Egorin M, Echo DV, Olman E, et al. Prospective validation of a pharmacologically based dosing scheme for the cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II)
analogue diamminecyclobutanedicarboxylatoplatinum. Cancer Res 1985;45:
6502–6506.
11. Connors T, Jones M, Ross W, et al. New platinum complexes with antitumour activity. Chem Biol Interact 1972;5:415–424.
13. Kidani Y, Inagaki K, Tsukagoshi S. Examination of antitumor activities of
platinum complexes of 1,2-diaminocyclohexane isomers and their related
complexes. Gann 1976;67:921–922.
16. Shimada M, Itamochi H, Kigawa J. Nedaplatin: a cisplatin derivative in cancer therapy. Cancer Manag Res 2013;5:67–76.

common, especially with the paclitaxel-containing combinations.
Neurotoxicity is also less common than with cisplatin, although it
is observed more frequently with the increasing use of high-dose
regimens. Ototoxicity is also less common.

Oxaliplatin
The dose-limiting toxicity of oxaliplatin is sensory neuropathy,
a characteristic of all DACH-containing platinum derivatives.
This side effect takes two forms. First, a tingling of the extremities,
which may also involve the perioral region, that occurs early and
usually resolves within a few days. With repeated dosing, symptoms may last longer between cycles, but do not appear to be cumulative or of long duration. Laryngopharyngeal spasms and cold
dysesthesias have also been reported but are not associated with
significant respiratory symptoms and can be prevented by prolonging the duration of infusion. A second neuropathy, more typical
of that seen with cisplatin, affects the extremities and increases
with repeated doses. Definitive physiologic characterization of
oxaliplatin-induced neuropathy has proven difficult in large studies. Electromyograms performed in six patients treated by Extra
et al.83 revealed an axonal sensory neuropathy, but nerve conduction velocities were unchanged. Specimens from peripheral nerve
biopsies performed in this study showed decreased myelination
and replacement with collagen pockets. The neurologic effects of
oxaliplatin appear to be cumulative in that they become more pronounced and of greater duration with successive cycles; however,
unlike those of cisplatin, they are reversible with drug cessation. In
a review of 682 patient experiences, Brienza et al.84 reported that
82% of patients who experienced grade 2 neurotoxicity or higher
had their symptoms regress within 4 to 6 months. In a larger adjuvant trial, de Gramont et al.85 reported that 12% of patients had
grade 3 toxicity at the end of a 6-month treatment period and that
the majority of these patients had relief, but not always complete
resolution of the symptoms, by 1 year later. The persistence of the
neurotoxicity has led to approaches to ameliorate it, including the
use of protective agents. The use of calcium and magnesium salts
intravenously before and after each infusion has been shown to
be ineffective. Ototoxicity is not observed with oxaliplatin. Nausea
and vomiting do occur and generally respond to 5-HT3 antagonists.
Myelosuppression is uncommon and is not severe with oxaliplatin
as a single agent, but it is a feature of combinations including this
drug. Oxaliplatin therapy is not associated with nephrotoxicity.

R E F E R E N C E S
17. Fojo T, Farrell N, Ortuzar W, et al. Identification of non-cross-resistant
platinum compounds with novel cytotoxicity profiles using the NCI anticancer drug screen and clustered image map visualizations. Crit Rev Oncol
Hematol 2005;53:25–34.
20. Farrell N, Qu Y, Bierbach U, et al. Structure-activity relationships within diand trinuclear platinum phase-I clinical anticancer agents. In: Lippert B, ed.
Cisplatin: Chemistry and Biochemistry of a Leading Anticancer Drug. Zurich:
Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta; 1999;477–496.
23. Park GY, Wilson JJ, Song Y, et al. Phenanthriplatin, a monofunctional
DNA-binding platinum anticancer drug candidate with unusual potency and
cellular activity profile. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2012;109:11987–11992.
24. Eastman A. The formation, isolation and characterization of DNA adducts
produced by anticancer platinum complexes. Pharmacol Ther 1987;34:
155–166.
26. Martens-de Kemp SR, Dalm SU, Wijnolts FM, et al. DNA-bound platinum
is the major determinant of cisplatin sensitivity in head and neck squamous
carcinoma cells. PLoS One 2013;8:e61555.
30. Zhu G, Song L, Lippard SJ. Visualizing inhibition of nucleosome mobility
and transcription by cisplatin-DNA interstrand crosslinks in live mammalian
cells. Cancer Res 2013;73:4451–4460.
31. Sorenson C, Eastman A. Mechanism of cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (II)induced cytotoxicity: role of G2 arrest and DNA double-strand breaks. Cancer Res 1988;48:4484–4488.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

36. Ramachandran S, Temple B, Alexandrova AN, et al. Recognition of
platinum-DNA adducts by HMGB1a. Biochemistry 2012;51:7608–7617.
38. Kelland L. The resurgence of platinum-based cancer chemotherapy. Nat Rev
Cancer 2007;7:573–584.
40. Vasilevskaya IA, Selvakumaran M, O’Dwyer PJ. Disruption of signaling
through SEK1 and MKK7 yields differential responses in hypoxic colon cancer cells treated with oxaliplatin. Mol Pharmacol 2008;74:246–254.
41. Maestre N, Tritton TR, Laurent G, et al. Cell surface-directed interaction of
anthracyclines leads to cytotoxicity and nuclear factor kappaB activation but
not apoptosis signaling. Cancer Res 2001;61:2558–2561.
42. Roodhart JM, Daenen LG, Stigter EC, et al. Mesenchymal stem cells induce
resistance to chemotherapy through the release of platinum-induced fatty
acids. Cancer Cell 2011;20:370–383.
44. Galluzzi L, Senovilla L, Vitale I, et al. Molecular mechanisms of cisplatin
resistance. Oncogene 2012;31:1869–1883.
46. Blair BG, Larson CA, Safaei R, et al. Copper transporter 2 regulates the
cellular accumulation and cytotoxicity of cisplatin and carboplatin. Clin
Cancer Res 2009;15:4312–4321.
48. Britten RA, Green JA, Broughton C, et al. The relationship between nuclear
glutathione levels and resistance to melphalan in human ovarian tumour
cells. Biochem Pharmacol 1991;41:647–649.
50. Godwin A, Meister A, O’Dwyer P, et al. High resistance to cisplatin in human
ovarian cancer cell lines is associated with marked increase in glutathione
synthesis. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1992;89:3070–3074.
52. Koberle B, Grimaldi K, Sunters A, et al. DNA repair capacity and cisplatin
sensitivity of human testis tumour cells. Int J Cancer 1997;70:551–555.
53. Martin LP, Hamilton TC, Schilder RJ. Platinum resistance: the role of DNA
repair pathways. Clin Cancer Res 2008;14:1291–1295.
54. Selvakumaran M, Piscarcik DA, Bao R, et al. Enhanced cisplatin cytotoxicity
by disturbing the nucleotide excision repair pathway in ovarian cancer cell
lines. Cancer Res 2003;63:1311–1316.
55. Hubner RA, Riley RD, Billingham LJ, et al. Excision repair crosscomplementation group 1 (ERCC1) status and lung cancer outcomes: a metaanalysis of published studies and recommendations. PLoS One 2011;6:e25164.
59. Friboulet L, Olaussen KA, Pignon JP, et al. ERCC1 isoform expression and
DNA repair in non–small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2013;368:1101–1110.

207

60. Bryant HE, Schultz N, Thomas HD, et al. Specific killing of BRCA2deficient tumours with inhibitors of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. Nature
2005;434:913–917.
61. Farmer H, McCabe1 N, Lord C, et al. Targeting the DNA repair defect in
BRCA mutant cells as a therapeutic strategy. Nature 2005;434:917–921.
64. Gelmon, KA, Tischkowitz M, Mackay H, et al. Olaparib in patients with recurrent high-grade serous or poorly differentiated ovarian carcinoma or triplenegative breast cancer: a phase 2, multicentre, open-label, non-randomised
study. Lancet Oncology 2011;12:852–861.
67. Amaravadi RK, Yu D, Lum JJ, et al. Autophagy inhibition enhances therapyinduced apoptosis in a Myc-induced model of lymphoma. J Clin Invest
2007;117:326–336.
68. Duffull S, Robinson B. Clinical pharmacokinetics and dose optimization of
carboplatin. Clin Pharmacokinet 1997;33:161–183.
70. Graham MA, Lockwood GF, Greenslade D, et al. Clinical pharmacokinetics
of oxaliplatin: a critical review. Clin Cancer Res 2000;6:1205–1218.
73. Chatelut E, Canal P, Brunner V, et al. Prediction of carboplatin clearance
from standard morphological and biological patient characteristics. J Natl
Cancer Inst 1995;87:573–580.
74. Jodrell D, Egorin M, Canetta R, et al. Relationships between carboplatin
exposure and tumor response and toxicity in patients with ovarian cancer.
J Clin Oncol 1992;10:520–528.
78. Schellens J, Ma J, Planting A, et al. Relationship between the exposure to cisplatin, DNA-adduct formation in leucocytes and tumour response in patients
with solid tumours. Br J Cancer 1996;73:1569–1575.
81. Alberts D, Liu P, Hannigan E, et al. Intraperitoneal cisplatin plus intravenous cyclophosphamide versus intravenous cisplatin plus intravenous
cyclophosphamide for stage III ovarian cancer. N Engl J Med 1996;335:
1950–1955.
83. Extra J, Marty M, Brienza S, et al. Pharmacokinetics and safety profile of
oxaliplatin. Semin Oncol 1998;25:13–22.
84. Brienza S, Vignoud J, Itzhaki M, et al. Oxaliplatin (L-OHP): global safety in
682 patients. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 1995;14:209.
85. André T, Boni C, Mounedji-Boudiaf L, et al. Oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and
leucovorin as adjuvant treatment for colon cancer. N Engl J Med 2004;350:
2343–2351.

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Chapter 18 Platinum Analogs

19

Antimetabolites

M. Wasif Saif and Edward Chu

ANTIFOLATES

Mechanisms of Resistance

Reduced folates play a key role in one-carbon metabolism,
and they are essential for the biosynthesis of purines, thymidylate, and protein biosynthesis. Aminopterin was the first antimetabolite with documented clinical activity in the treatment
of children with acute leukemia in the 1940s. This antifolate
analog was subsequently replaced by methotrexate (MTX), the
4-amino, 10-methyl analog of folic acid, which remains the most
widely used antifolate analog, with activity against a wide range
of cancers (Table 19.1), including hematologic malignancies
(acute lymphoblastic leukemia and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma)
and many solid tumors (breast cancer, head and neck cancer,
osteogenic sarcoma, bladder cancer, and gestational trophoblastic cancer).
Pemetrexed is a pyrrolopyrimidine, multitargeted antifolate
analog that targets multiple enzymes involved in folate metabolism, including thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydrofolate reductase
(DHFR), glycinamide ribonucleotide (GAR) formyltransferase,
and aminoimidazole carboxamide (AICAR) formyltransferase.1,2
This agent has broad-spectrum activity against solid tumors, including malignant mesothelioma and breast, pancreatic, head and
neck, non–small-cell lung, colon, gastric, cervical, and bladder
cancers.3–5
The third antifolate compound to have entered clinical practice
is pralatrexate (10-propargyl-10-deazaaminopterin), a 10-deazaaminopterin antifolate that was rationally designed to bind with
higher affinity to the reduced folate carrier (RFC)-1 transport
protein, when compared with MTX, leading to enhanced membrane transport into tumor cells. It is also an improved substrate
for the enzyme folylpolyglutamyl synthetase (FPGS), resulting
in enhanced formation of cytotoxic polyglutamate metabolites.6,7
When compared with MTX, this analog is a more potent inhibitor of multiple enzymes involved in folate metabolism, including
TS, DHFR, and GAR and AICAR formyltransferases. This agent
is presently approved for the treatment of relapsed or refractory
peripheral T-cell lymphomas.8

The development of cellular resistance to antifolates remains a
major obstacle to its clinical efficacy.9,10 In experimental systems,
resistance to antifolates arises from several mechanisms, including an alteration in antifolate transport because of either a defect
in the reduced folate carrier or folate receptor systems, decreased
capacity to polyglutamate the antifolate parent compound through
either decreased expression of FPGS or increased expression of
the catabolic enzyme γ-glutamyl hydrolase, and alterations in the
target enzymes DHFR and/or TS through increased expression of
wild-type protein or overexpression of a mutant protein with reduced binding affinity for the antifolate. Gene amplification is a
common resistance mechanism observed in various experimental
systems, including tumor samples from patients. In in vitro and in
vivo experimental model systems, the levels of DHFR and/or TS
protein acutely increase after exposure to MTX and other antifolate compounds. This acute induction of target protein in response
to drug exposure is mediated, in part, by a translational regulatory
mechanism, which may represent a clinically relevant mechanism
for the acute development of cellular drug resistance.

Mechanism of Action
The antifolate compounds are tight-binding inhibitors of DHFR,
a key enzyme in folate metabolism.1 DHFR plays a pivotal role in
maintaining the intracellular folate pools in their fully reduced
form as tetrahydrofolates, and these compounds serve as onecarbon carriers required for the synthesis of thymidylate, purine
nucleotides, and certain amino acids.
The cytotoxic effects of MTX, pemetrexed, and pralatrexate are
mediated by their respective polyglutamate metabolites, with up to
5 to 7 glutamyl groups in a γ-peptide linkage. These polyglutamate
metabolites exhibit prolonged intracellular half-lives, thereby allowing for prolonged drug action in tumor cells. Moreover, these
polyglutamate metabolites are potent, direct inhibitors of several
folate-dependent enzymes, including DHFR, TS, AICAR formyltransferase, and GAR formyltransferase.1

Clinical Pharmacology
The oral bioavailability of MTX is saturable and erratic at doses
greater than 25 mg/m2. MTX is completely absorbed from parenteral routes of administration, and peak serum levels are achieved
within 30 to 60 minutes of administration.
The distribution of MTX into third-space fluid collections,
such as pleural effusions and ascitic fluid, can substantially alter
MTX pharmacokinetics. The slow release of accumulated MTX
from these third spaces over time prolongs the terminal half-life
of the drug, leading to potentially increased clinical toxicity. It is
advisable to evacuate these fluid collections before treatment and
monitor plasma drug concentrations closely.
Renal excretion is the main route of drug elimination, and
this process is mediated by glomerular filtration and tubular
secretion. About 80% to 90% of an administered dose is eliminated unchanged in the urine. Doses of MTX, therefore, should
be reduced in proportion to reductions in creatinine clearance.
Renal excretion of MTX is inhibited by probenecid, penicillins,
cephalosporins, aspirin, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
drugs.
Pemetrexed enters the cell via the RFC system and, to a lesser
extent, by the folate receptor protein. As with MTX, it undergoes
polyglutamation within the cell to the pentaglutamate form,
which is at least 60-fold more potent than the parent compound.
This agent is mainly cleared by renal excretion, and in the setting
of renal dysfunction, the terminal drug half-life is significantly prolonged to up to 20 hours. Pemetrexed, therefore, should be used
with caution in patients with renal dysfunction. In addition, renal
excretion is inhibited in the presence of other agents including
probenecid, penicillins, cephalosporins, aspirin, and nonsteroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs.

208
tahir99 - UnitedVRG

209

Chapter 19 Antimetabolites

TA B L E 1 9 . 1
Antimetabolites: Indications, Doses and Schedules, and Toxicities
Main Therapeutic Uses

Main Doses and Schedule
2

Major Toxicities

Methotrexate

Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Primary CNS lymphoma
Acute lymphoblastic
leukemia
Breast cancer
Bladder cancer
Osteogenic sarcoma
Gestational trophoblastic
cancer

Low dose: 10–50 mg/m IV every 3–4 weeks
Low dose weekly: 25 mg/m2 IV weekly
Moderate dose: 100–500 m/m2 IV every 2–3
weeks
High dose: 1–12 gm/m2 IV over a 3- to 24-hour
period every 1–3 weeks
Intrathecal (IT): 10–15 mg IT 2 times weekly until
CSF is clear, then weekly dose for
2–6 weeks, followed by monthly dose

Mucositis, diarrhea,
myelosuppression, acute renal
failure, transient elevations in
serum transaminases and bilirubin,
pneumonitis, neurologic toxicity

Pemetrexed

Mesothelioma
Non–small-cell lung cancer

500 mg/m2 IV, every 3 weeks

Myelosuppression, skin rash,
mucositis, diarrhea, fatigue

Pralatrexate

Peripheral T-cell lymphoma

30 mg/m2 IV, weekly for 6 weeks; cycles
repeated every 7 weeks

Myelosuppression, skin rash,
mucositis, diarrhea, elevation of
serum transaminases and bilirubin,
mild nausea/vomiting

5-Fluorouracil

Breast cancer
Colorectal cancer
Anal cancer
Gastroesophageal cancer
Hepatocellular cancer
Pancreatic cancer
Head and neck cancer

Bolus monthly schedule: 425–450 mg/m2 IV on
days 1–5 every 28 days
Bolus weekly schedule: 500–600 mg/m2 IV
every week for 6 weeks every 8 weeks
Infusion schedule: 2,400–3,000 mg/m2 IV over
46 hours every 2 weeks
120-hour infusion: 1,000 mg/m2/d IV on days
1–5 every 21–28 d
Protracted continuous infusion: 200–400 mg/
m2/d IV

Nausea/vomiting, diarrhea,
mucositis, myelosuppression,
neurotoxicity, coronary artery
vasospasm, conjunctivitis

Capecitabine

Breast cancer
Colorectal cancer
Gastroesophageal cancer
Hepatocellular cancer
Pancreatic cancer

Recommended dose for monotherapy is 1,250
mg/m2 PO bid for 2 weeks with 1 wk rest
May decrease dose of capecitabine to 850–
1,000 mg/m2 bid on days 1–14 to reduce risk
of toxicity without compromising efficacy
An alternative dosing schedule for monotherapy
is 1,250–1,500 mg/m2 PO bid for 1 week on
and 1 week off; this schedule appears to be
well tolerated, with no compromise in clinical
efficacy
Capecitabine should be used at lower doses
(850–1,000 mg/m2 bid on days 1–14) when
used in combination with other cytotoxic
agents, such as oxaliplatin and lapatinib

Diarrhea, hand-foot syndrome,
myelosuppression, mucositis,
nausea/vomiting, neurologic
toxicity, coronary artery
vasospasm

Cytarabine

Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Acute myelogenous
leukemia
Acute lymphoblastic
leukemia

Standard dose: 100 mg/m2/day IV on days 1–7 as
a continuous IV infusion, in combination with
an anthracycline as induction chemotherapy
for acute myelogenous leukemia
High-dose: 1.5–3.0 gm/m2 IV q 12 hours for 3
days as a high dose, intensification regimen
for acute myelogenous leukemia
SC: 20 mg/m2 SC for 10 days per month for 6
months, associated with IFN-α for treatment
of chronic myelogenous leukemia
IT: 10–30 mg IT up to 3 times weekly in the
treatment of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis
secondary to leukemia or lymphoma.

Nausea/vomiting, myelosuppression,
cerebellar ataxia, lethargy,
confusion, acute pancreatitis,
drug infusion reaction, hand-foot
syndrome
High-dose therapy: noncardiogenic
pulmonary edema, acute
respiratory distress and
Streptococcus viridans
pneumonia, conjunctivitis, and
keratitis

Gemcitabine

Pancreatic cancer
Non–small-cell lung cancer
Breast cancer
Bladder cancer
Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Ovarian cancer
Soft tissue sarcoma

Pancreatic cancer: 1,000 mg/m2 IV every week
for 7 weeks with 1 week rest Treatment then
continues weekly for 3 weeks followed by
1 week off
Bladder cancer: 1,000 mg/m2 IV on days 1, 8,
and 15 every 28 days
Non–small-cell lung cancer: 1,000-1,200 mg/m2
IV on days 1 and 8 every 21 days

Nausea/vomiting, myelosuppression,
flulike syndrome, elevation
of serum transaminases and
bilirubin, pneumonitis, infusion
reaction, mild proteinuria, and
rarely, hemolytic-uremic syndrome
and thrombotic thrombocytopenic
purpura
(continued)

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Drug

210

Cancer Therapeutics

TA B L E 1 9 . 1
Antimetabolites: Indications, Doses and Schedules, and Toxicities (continued)
Drug

Main Therapeutic Uses

Main Doses and Schedule

Major Toxicities

6-Mercaptopurine

Acute lymphoblastic
leukemia

Induction therapy: 2.5 mg/kg PO daily
Maintenance therapy: 1.5–2.5 mg/kg PO daily

Myelosuppression, nausea/
vomiting, mucositis and diarrhea,
hepatotoxicity, immunosuppression

6-Thioguanine

Acute myelogenous
leukemia
Acute lymphoblastic
leukemia

Induction: 100 mg/m2 PO every 12 hours
on days 1–5, usually in combination with
cytarabine
Maintenance: 100 mg/m2 PO every 12 hours
on days 1–5, every 4 weeks, usually in
combination with other agents
Single agent: 1–3 mg/kg PO daily

Myelosuppression, nausea/
vomiting, mucositis and diarrhea,
hepatotoxicity, immunosuppression

Fludarabine

Chronic lymphocytic
leukemia
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma

25 mg/m2 IV on days 1–5 every 28 days For oral
usage, the recommended dose is 40 mg/m2
PO on days 1–5 every 28 days

Myelosuppression,
immunosuppression with
increased risk of opportunistic
infections, mild nausea/vomiting,
hypersensitivity reaction

Cladribine

Hairy cell leukemia
Chronic lymphocytic
leukemia
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma

Usual dose is 0.09 mg/kg/d IV via continuous
infusion for 7 days; one course is usually
administered

Myelosuppression,
immunosuppression, mild nausea/
vomiting, fever

Clofarabine

Acute lymphoblastic
leukemia

52 mg/m2 IV daily for 5 days every 2–6 weeks

Myelosuppression nausea/vomiting,
diarrhea, systemic inflammatory
response syndrome, increased
risk of opportunistic infections,
renal toxicity

CNS, central nervous system; IV, intravenously; CSF, cerebrospinal fluid; PO, by mouth; bid, twice daily; SC, subcutaneously; IFN-α, interferon alpha.

As with other antifolate analogs, pralatrexate is transported into
the cell by the RFC carrier protein and then metabolized by FPGS
to form longer chain polyglutamates, with up to four additional
glutamate residues attached to the parent molecule. About 34%
of the parent drug is cleared in the urine during the first 24 hours
after drug administration. As such, caution is advised when using
pralatrexate in patients with renal dysfunction. As with MTX and
pemetrexed, the concomitant administration of other agents such
as probenecid, penicillins, cephalosporins, aspirin, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, may inhibit renal clearance.

Toxicity
The main side effects of MTX are myelosuppression and gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity, which are usually completely reversed
within 14 days, unless drug-elimination mechanisms are impaired. In patients with compromised renal function, even small
doses of MTX may result in serious toxicity. MTX-induced nephrotoxicity is thought to result from the intratubular precipitation
of MTX and its metabolites in acidic urine. Antifolates may also
exert a direct toxic effect on the renal tubules. Vigorous hydration
and urinary alkalinization have greatly reduced the incidence of
renal failure in patients on high-dose regimens. Acute elevations
in hepatic enzyme levels and hyperbilirubinemia are often observed during high-dose therapy, but these levels usually return
to normal within 10 days. Methotrexate given concomitantly with
radiotherapy may increase the risk of soft tissue necrosis and osteonecrosis.
The original rationale for high-dose MTX therapy was based
on the concept of selective rescue of normal tissues by the reduced
folate leucovorin (LV). However, recent data suggest that highdose MTX may also overcome resistance mechanisms caused by
impaired active transport, decreased affinity of DHFR for MTX,

increased levels of DHFR resulting from gene amplification, and/
or decreased polyglutamation of MTX.
The main toxicities of pemetrexed and pralatrexate include
dose-limiting myelosuppression, mucositis, and skin rash, usually
in the form of the hand-foot syndrome (HFS). Other toxicities include reversible transaminasemia, anorexia and fatigue syndrome,
and GI toxicity. These side effects are reduced by supplementation
with folic acid (350 μg orally daily) and vitamin B12 (1,000 mg
subcutaneously given at least 1 week before starting therapy, and
then repeated every three cycles). To date, there is no evidence to
suggest that vitamin supplementation adversely affects the clinical
efficacy of pemetrexed or pralatrexate.

5-FLUOROPYRIMIDINES
The fluoropyrimidine, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was synthesized by
Charles Heidelberger in the mid 1950s. Uracil is a normal component of RNA; as such, the rationale leading to the development
of the drug was that cancer cells might be more sensitive to decoy
molecules that mimic the natural compound than normal cells.
5-FU and its derivatives are an integral part of treatment for a broad
range of solid tumors (see Table 19.1), including GI malignancies
(esophageal, gastric, pancreatic, colorectal, anal, and hepatocellular cancers), breast, head and neck, and skin cancers.11 It continues to serve as the main backbone for combination regimens
used to treat metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) and as adjuvant
therapy of early-stage colon cancer.

Mechanism of Action
5-FU enters cells via the facilitated uracil base transport mechanism and is then anabolized to various cytotoxic nucleotide forms

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 19 Antimetabolites

dTTP

211

DNA

5-FU
FdUMP
Thymidylate synthase

dUMP

dTMP

Ch2THF

Cell
membrane

TK

Pemetrexed
THF

DHF

Thymidine

Dihydrofolate
reductace
MTX
Salvage
pathway

Figure 19.1 Antifolates and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) sites of action. FdUMP, fluorodeoxyuridine monophosphate; dUMP, deoxyuridine
monophosphate; dTTP, deoxythymidine triphosphate; dTDP, deoxyuridine diphosphate; dTMP, deoxythymidine monophosphate;
TK, thymidine kinase; CH2THF, 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate; THF, tetrahydrofolate; DHF, dihydrofolate.

by several biochemical pathways. It is thought that 5-FU exerts its
cytotoxic effects through various mechanisms, including (1) the inhibition of TS, (2) incorporation into RNA, and (3) incorporation
into DNA (Fig. 19.1). In addition to these mechanisms, the genotoxic stress resulting from TS inhibition may also activate programmed cell-death pathways in susceptible cells, which leads to
the induction of parental DNA fragmentation.

Mechanisms of Resistance
Several resistance mechanisms to 5-FU have been identified in experimental and clinical settings. Alterations in the target enzyme TS
represent the most commonly described mechanism of resistance.
In vitro, in vivo, and clinical studies have documented a strong correlation between the levels of TS enzyme activity/TS protein and
chemosensitivity to 5-FU. In this regard, cell lines and tumors with
higher levels of TS are relatively more resistant to 5-FU. Mutations
in the TS protein have been identified that lead to reduced binding
affinity of the 5-FU metabolite fluorodeoxyuridine monophosphate
(FdUMP) to the TS protein. Reduced expression and/or diminished
activity of key activating enzymes may interfere with the formation
of cytotoxic 5-FU metabolites. Decreased expression of mismatch
repair enzymes, such as human mutL homolog 1 (hMLH1) and
human mutS homolog 2 (hMSH2), and increased expression of the
catabolic enzyme dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) are associated with fluoropyrimidine resistance. At this time, the relative
contribution of each of these mechanisms in the development of cellular resistance to 5-FU in the actual clinical setting remains unclear.

Clinical Pharmacology
5-FU is not orally administered, given its erratic bioavailability
resulting from high levels of the catabolic enzyme DPD present

in the gut mucosa. After intravenous bolus doses, metabolic
elimination is rapid, with a half-life of 8 to 14 minutes. More than
85% of an administered dose of 5-FU is enzymatically inactivated
by DPD, the rate-limiting enzyme in the catabolism of 5-FU.
A pharmacogenetic syndrome has been identified in which
partial or compete deficiency in the DPD enzyme is present in 3%
to 5% and 0.1% of the general population, respectively. As DPD
catalyzes the rate-limiting step in the catabolic pathway of 5-FU,
a deficiency of DPD can result in a clinically dangerous increase
in the anabolic products of 5-FU. Unfortunately, patients with
DPD deficiency do not manifest a phenotype only until they are
treated with 5-FU, and in that setting, they can develop severe GI
toxicity in the form of mucositis and/or diarrhea, myelosuppression, neurologic toxicity, and in rare cases, death. In patients being
treated with 5-FU or any other fluoropyrimidine, it is important to
consider DPD deficiency in patients who present with excessive,
severe toxicity.12 It is now increasingly appreciated that DPD mutations are unable to account for all of the observed cases of excessive
5-FU toxicity, because up to 50% of patients who experience 5-FU
toxicity will have no documented alterations in the DPD gene.
Moreover, individuals with normal DPD enzyme activity may be
diagnosed with high plasma levels of 5-FU, resulting in increased
toxicity. Although DPD enzyme activity can be assayed from
peripheral blood mononuclear cells in a specialized laboratory,
routine phenotypic and genotypic screenings for DPD deficiency
prior to 5-FU therapy are not yet available.

Biomodulation of 5-FU
Significant efforts have focused on enhancing the antitumor activity of 5-FU through biochemical modulation in which 5-FU
is combined with various agents, including leucovorin, MTX,
N-phosphonacetyl-l-aspartic acid, interferon-α, interferon-γ, and

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

De novo pathway

dTDP

212

Cancer Therapeutics

TA B L E 1 9 . 2

Route

Schedule

IV

Daily × 5, bolus

400–500 (mg/m /d)

⇓ BM
D
M

IV

Weekly bolus

450–500 (mg/m2/d)

⇓ BM

U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the first-line treatment of mCRC and as adjuvant therapy for stage III colon cancer
when fluoropyrimidine therapy alone is preferred.17 In Europe and
throughout much of the world, the combination of capecitabine
plus oxaliplatin (XELOX) is approved for the treatment of mCRC
as well as for the adjuvant therapy of stage III colon cancer.18 In
addition, recent studies have documented the noninferiority of
capecitabine to 5-FU when combined with cisplatin in the treatment of metastatic gastric cancer.

IV

Daily × 5, CI

750–1,000 (mg/m2/d)

M
D

Clinical Pharmacology

Toxicities of Different Forms of 5-FU
Dose

DLT
2

2

IV

PCI

200–400 (mg/m /d)

M
HFS

HAI

Daily × 14–21, CI

750–1,000 (mg/m2/d)

M
D

IP

32–120 hr

5 nM

M
D

Oral (Xeloda)

14–21 d

2,000–2,500 (mg/m2/d) HFS

DLT, dose limiting toxicity; IV, intravenous; BM, bone marrow; D, diarrhea; M,
mucositis; CI, continuous infusion; PCI, protracted continuous infusion; HFS,
hand-foot syndrome; HAI, hepatic artery infusion; IP, intraperitoneal.

a whole host of other agents.13 For the past 20 to 25 years, the
reduced folate LV has been the main biochemical modulator of
5-FU. An alternative approach has been to alter the schedule of
5-FU administration. Given the S-phase specificity of this agent,
prolonged exposure of tumor cells to 5-FU would increase the
fraction of cells being exposed to the drug. Overall response rates
are significantly higher in patients treated with infusional schedules of 5-FU than in those treated with bolus 5-FU, and this
improvement in response rate has translated into an improved
progression-free survival. Moreover, the overall safety profile is
improved with infusional regimens. A hybrid schedule of bolus
and infusional 5-FU was originally developed in France, and this
regimen has shown superior clinical activity compared with bolus
5-FU schedules. This hybrid schedule has now been simplified by
using only the 46-hour infusion of 5-FU and completely eliminating the 5-FU bolus doses.

Toxicity
The spectrum of 5-FU toxicity is dose- and schedule-dependent
(Table 19.2). The main side effects are diarrhea, mucositis, and
myelosuppression. The dermatologic HFS is more commonly observed with infusional 5-FU therapy. Acute neurologic symptoms
have also been reported, and they include somnolence, cerebellar
ataxia, and upper motor signs. Treatment with 5-FU can, on rare
occasions, cause coronary vasospasm, resulting in a syndrome of
chest pain, cardiac enzyme elevations, and electrocardiographic
changes. Cardiac toxicity seems to be related more to infusional
5-FU than bolus administration.14

CAPECITABINE
Capecitabine is an oral fluoropyrimidine carbamate that was rationally designed to allow for selective 5-FU activation in tumor
tissue.15 This oral agent was initially approved in anthracyclineand taxane-resistant breast cancer and subsequently approved for
use in combination with docetaxel as second-line therapy in metastatic breast cancer and in combination with lapatinib, a tyrosinekinase inhibitor of human epidermal growth factor receptor type 2
(HER2) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) in women
with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer following progression
on trastuzumab-based therapy.16 This agent is also approved by the

Capecitabine is rapidly and extensively absorbed by the gut mucosa, with nearly 80% oral bioavailability. It is inactive in its parent form and undergoes enzymatic conversion via three successive
steps. Of note, the third and final step occurs in tumor tissue and
involves the conversion of 5′-deoxy-5-fluorouridine to 5-FU by
the enzyme thymidine phosphorylase (TP), which is expressed at
much higher levels in tumors when compared with corresponding normal tissue. Capecitabine and capecitabine metabolites
are primarily excreted by the kidneys, and in contrast to 5-FU,
caution must be taken in the presence of renal dysfunction, with
appropriate dose modification. The use of capecitabine is absolutely contraindicated in patients whose creatinine clearance is
less than 30 mL per minute. The FDA and Roche have added a
black box warning and strengthened the precautions section on
the capecitabine label about the drug–drug interaction between
warfarin and capecitabine-based chemotherapy. It is generally
recommended to do weekly monitoring of the coagulation parameters (prothrombin time/international normalized ratio [PT/INR])
for all patients receiving concomitant warfarin and capecitabine,
with an appropriate adjustment of warfarin dose.

Toxicity
Similar to what is observed with infusional 5-FU, the main side
effects of capecitabine include diarrhea and HFS. Of note, the
incidence of myelosuppression, neutropenic fever, mucositis, alopecia, and nausea/vomiting is lower with capecitabine when compared with 5-FU. Elevations in indirect serum bilirubin can be
observed, but are usually transient and clinically asymptomatic.
Patients in the United States appear to be unable to tolerate as high
doses of capecitabine as European patients, either as monotherapy
or in combination with other cytotoxic chemotherapy.19 Although
the underlying reasons for this discrepancy are not known, it may
in part be related to the increased fortification of the US diet with
folate and the increased focus on vitamin and folic acid supplementation.

S-1
S-1 is an oral fluoropyrimidine that consists of tegafur (FT), a
prodrug of 5-FU, combined with two 5-FU biochemical modulators: 5-chloro-2,4-dihydroxypyridine (gimeracil or CDHP), a competitive inhibitor of DPD, and oteracil potassium, which inhibits
phosphorylation of 5-flurouracil in the GI tract, thereby decreasing
serious GI toxicities such as nausea/vomiting, mucositis, and diarrhea.20 As with other oral agents, S-1 offers several advantages over
5-FU, including ease of administration, no risks associated with use
of central venous access such as infection, thrombosis, etc., and
reduced toxicities, especially neurotoxicity. Although S-1 has yet
to be approved by the FDA, it has been approved for the treatment of gastric cancer, head and neck, colorectal cancer (CRC),
non–small-cell lung, breast, pancreatic, and biliary tract cancers in
several countries in Asia and for the treatment of advanced gastric
cancer in combination with cisplatin in a large number of European countries.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 19 Antimetabolites

S-1 was designed to provide continuous 5-FU plasma exposure comparable to the intravenous (IV) infusion. FT, the 5-FU
prodrug, is absorbed in the small intestine and converted to 5-FU
through the liver microsomal P-450 metabolizing enzyme system
(CYP2A6). Most of the 5-FU is degraded (85%) by DPD, leading
to the formation of fluoro-beta-alanine (FBAL).21 CDHP inhibits
DPD, thus allowing higher concentrations of 5-FU to enter the
anabolic pathway and enhance its therapeutic effect. Additionally,
the inhibition of DPD leads to a decreased amount of FBAL formation, which presumably leads to reduced neurotoxicity. Oteracil is the final component of the S-1 formulation, and it inhibits
orotate phosphoribosyltransferase in the GI mucosa, which prevents the formation of fluorouridine monophosphate (FUMP),
thereby decreasing GI toxicity.
The maximum tolerated dose was established at 80 mg/m2 in
two divided doses for a Japanese population and 25 mg/m2 twice
a day for a Caucasian population. This interethnic variability of
S-1 pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics has been attributed
to differences in the CYP2A6 genotypes.22 Studies have demonstrated a high frequency of allelic variants CYP2A6*4, *7, and
*9 in East Asians than in Caucasians, which might be associated
with reduced enzymatic activity and decreased activation of FT.
On the other hand, higher FT metabolism is seen in Caucasian
patients due to higher CYP2A6 activity. However, investigators
have established similar 5-FU exposure between these two ethnic
groups. These findings were explained by higher CDHP exposure
in Asians, resulting in increased DPD inhibition and slower catabolism of 5-FU, despite having low CYP2A6 activity, whereas
Caucasians had higher CYP2A6 activity but faster 5-FU clearance.

Clinical Toxicity
Clinical studies have shown that the GI toxicities associated with
S-1, such as diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and hyperbilirubinemia,
are more prominent in Western patients, whereas hematologic toxicities are more prevalent in Japanese patients. The difference in
safety profile cannot be explained by differences in 5-FU exposure,
because pharmacokinetic studies have shown that overall drug exposures are similar. A potential explanation might involve interethnic variations in TS promoter enhancer region polymorphisms,
which are more frequently seen in Asians or in Caucasians on a
higher folate diet.

CYTARABINE
Cytarabine (ara-C) is a deoxycytidine nucleoside analog isolated
from the sponge Cryptotethya crypta, and it differs from its physiologic counterpart by virtue of a stereotypic inversion of the 2′-hydroxyl group of the sugar moiety.23 A regimen of ara-C, combined
with an anthracycline and given as a 5- or 7-day continuous infusion, is considered the standard induction treatment for acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Ara-C is active against other hematologic
malignancies, such as non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, chronic myelogenous leukemia, and acute lymphocytic leukemia (see Table 19.1).
However, this agent has absolutely no activity against solid tumors.

Mechanism of Action
Ara-C enters cells via nucleoside transport proteins, the most important one being the equilibrative inhibitor-sensitive (ES) receptor. Once inside the cell, ara-C requires activation for its cytotoxic
effects.23,24 The first metabolic step is the conversion of ara-C to
the monophosphate form ara-cytidine monophosphate (ara-CMP)
by the enzyme deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) with subsequent

phosphorylation to the di- and triphosphate metabolites, respectively. Ara-cytidine triphosphate (ara-CTP) is a potent inhibitor
of DNA polymerases α, β, and γ, which in turn interferes with
DNA chain elongation, DNA synthesis, and DNA repair. Ara-CTP
is also incorporated directly into DNA and functions as a DNA
chain terminator, interfering with chain elongation. Catabolism
of ara-C involves two key enzymes, cytidine deaminase and deoxycytidylate deaminase. These breakdown enzymes convert ara-C
and ara-CMP into the inactive metabolites, ara-uridine (ara-U)
and ara-uridine monophosphate (ara-UMP), respectively. The balance between intracellular activation and degradation is critical
in determining the amount of drug that is ultimately converted to
ara-CTP and, thus, its subsequent cytotoxic and antitumor activity.

Mechanisms of Resistance
Several resistance mechanisms to ara-C have been described. An
impaired transmembrane transport, a decreased rate of anabolism,
and an increased rate of catabolism may result in the development
of ara-C resistance.23,25,26 The level of cytidine deaminase enzyme
activity has been shown to correlate with clinical response in patients with AML undergoing induction chemotherapy with ara-C–
containing regimens.

Clinical Pharmacology
Ara-C has poor oral bioavailability given its extensive deamination
within the GI tract. Thus, ara-C is administered intravenously via
continuous infusion. After administration, ara-C undergoes extensive metabolism in the liver, plasma, and peripheral tissues.
Within 24 hours, up to 80% of drug is recovered in the urine as
the ara-U metabolite. Ara-C crosses the blood–brain barrier when
used at high doses, with cerebrospinal fluid levels between 7% and
14% of plasma levels and reaching peak levels of up to 10 μM.

Toxicity
The toxicity profile of ara-C is highly dependent on the dose and
schedule of administration. Myelosuppression is dose-limiting
with a standard 7-day regimen. Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia are observed most frequently, with nadirs occurring between
days 7 and 14 after drug administration. GI toxicity commonly
manifests as a mild-to-moderate degree of anorexia, nausea, and
vomiting along with mucositis, diarrhea, and abdominal pain. In
rare cases, acute pancreatitis has been observed. The ara-C syndrome has been described in pediatric patients with hematologic
malignancies, usually begins within 12 hours after the start of
drug infusion, and is characterized by fever, myalgia, bone pain,
maculopapular rash, conjunctivitis, malaise, and occasional
chest pain.
The administration of ara-C at high doses (2 to 3 g/m2 with
each dose) is associated with profound myelosuppression.27 Severe GI toxicity in the form of mucositis and/or diarrhea is also
observed. Neurologic toxicity is significantly more common with
high-dose ara-C than with standard doses, and presents with seizures, cerebral and cerebellar dysfunction, and peripheral neuropathy. Clinical signs of cerebellar dysfunction occur in up to
15% of patients and include dysarthria, dysmetria, and ataxia.
Change in alertness and cognitive ability, memory loss, and frontal lobe release signs reflect cerebral toxicity. Despite discontinuation of therapy, clinical recovery is incomplete in up to 30% of
affected patients. Pulmonary complications may include noncardiogenic pulmonary edema, acute respiratory distress, and pneumonia, resulting from Streptococcus viridans infection. Other side
effects associated with high-dose ara-C include conjunctivitis
(often responsive to topical corticosteroids), a painful HFS, and
rarely, anaphylactic reactions.

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Clinical Pharmacology

213

214

Cancer Therapeutics
Gemcitabine
(dFdC)

dFdC

Deoxycytidine
deaminase

Additionally, several enzymes involved in the intracellular metabolism of gemcitabine have been implicated in the development
of cellular drug resistance, including reduced expression and/or deficiency in dCK enzyme activity as well as increased expression and/
or activity of the catabolic enzymes cytidine deaminase and dCMP
deaminase. Recent studies have also identified a subset of CD44-positive cancer stem cells within pancreatic tumors that sustain tumor
formation and growth, and are resistant to gemcitabine therapy.33

Cell membrane

dFdU

Deoxycytidine kinase

Clinical Pharmacology

dF-dCMP
dF-dCDP
dF-dCTP

dFdC-DNA

Figure 19.2 Transport and metabolism of gemcitabine. dFdC,
gemcitabine; dFdU, 2′,2′-difluorodeoxyuridine; dF-dCMP, gemcitabine
monophosphate; dF-dCDP, gemcitabine diphosphate; dF-dCTP,
gemcitabine triphosphate.

GEMCITABINE
Gemcitabine (2′,2′-difluorodeoxycytidine) is a difluorinated deoxycytidine analog. Despite its similarity in structure, metabolism,
and mechanism of action to ara-C, the spectrum of antitumor
activity of gemcitabine is much broader.23,28 This compound has
significant clinical activity against several human solid tumors,
including pancreatic, bile duct, gall bladder, small cell and non–
small-cell lung, bladder, ovary, and breast cancers as well as hematologic malignancies, namely Hodgkin’s and non-Hodgkin’s
lymphoma (see Table 19.1).

Mechanism of Action
The transport of gemcitabine into cells requires the nucleoside
transporter system. Gemcitabine is inactive in its parent form and
requires intracellular activation for its cytotoxic effects. The steps
involved in the metabolic activation of gemcitabine are similar to
those observed with ara-C, with both drugs being activated by the
same enzymatic machinery to the active triphosphate metabolite
(see Fig. 19.2). Gemcitabine triphosphate is then incorporated
into DNA, resulting in chain termination and the inhibition of
DNA synthesis and function, or the triphosphate form can directly
inhibit DNA polymerases α, β, and γ, which in turn, interferes
with DNA chain elongation, DNA synthesis, and DNA repair. The
triphosphate metabolite is also a potent inhibitor of ribonucleotide
reductase, which further mediates inhibition of DNA biosynthesis
by reducing the levels of key deoxynucleotide pools.29

Gemcitabine is administered via the intravenous route, typically
over a 30-minute intravenous infusion, and it undergoes extensive
metabolism by deamination to the catabolic metabolite, difluorodeoxyuridine (dFdU), with more than 90% of the metabolized
drug being recovered in urine. Plasma clearance is about 30%
lower in women and in elderly patients, and this pharmacokinetic
difference may result in an increased risk of toxicity in these respective patient populations. The initial findings from pilot pharmacokinetic studies suggested that gemcitabine, when given at a fixed
dose rate (FDR) intravenous infusion of 10 mg/m2 per minute,
produced the highest accumulation of active dFdCTP metabolites
in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, which led to a randomized
phase II trial that compared gemcitabine 1,500 mg/m2 by FDR
or 2,200 mg/m2 of gemcitabine over 30 minutes. Although this
phase II study suggested an improved overall survival with FDR,
a subsequent phase III trial failed to confirm the survival advantage of gemcitabine by FDR over its conventional administration
schedule.34

Toxicity
Gemcitabine is a relatively well-tolerated drug when used as a
single agent. The main dose-limiting toxicity is myelosuppression,
with neutropenia more commonly experienced than thrombocytopenia. Toxicity is schedule dependent, with longer infusions producing greater hematologic toxicity. Transient flulike symptoms,
including fever, headache, arthralgias, and myalgias, occur in 45%
of patients. Asthenia and transient transaminasemia may occur.
Renal microangiopathy syndromes, including hemolytic-uremic
syndrome and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, have been
reported rarely.

6-THIOPURINES
The development of the purine analogs in cancer chemotherapy
began in the early 1950s with the synthesis of the thiopurines,
6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) and 6-thioguanine (6-TG). 6-MP has
an important role in maintenance therapy for acute lymphoblastic
leukemia, whereas 6-TG is active in remission induction and in
maintenance therapy for AML (see Table 19.1).

Mechanism of Action

Mechanisms of Resistance
Several mechanisms of resistance to gemcitabine have been described in various preclinical experimental models.30 Gemcitabine
is a polar nucleoside analog that requires the activity of human
equilibrative nucleoside transporter 1 (hENT1) to enter cells and
exert its cytotoxic effects. Preclinical data in human pancreatic
cancer cell lines showed that gemcitabine resistance is negatively
correlated with hENT1 expression and can be induced by specific
inhibitors of hENT1.31 Clinical data also support the concept that
a lack of hENT1 may be predictive of resistance to gemcitabine.
CO-101, a lipid-drug conjugate of gemcitabine, was rationally designed to enter cells independently of hENT1. Unfortunately, two
studies in pancreatic cancer failed to show any benefit of CO-101.

The thiopurines, 6-MP and 6-TG, act similarly with respect to
their cellular biochemistry.34 In their respective monophosphate
nucleotide forms, they inhibit enzymes involved in de novo purine
synthesis and purine interconversion reactions. The triphosphate
nucleotide forms can get directly incorporated into either cellular
RNA or DNA, leading to the inhibition of RNA and DNA synthesis and function, respectively.

Mechanisms of Resistance
The development of cellular resistance to 6-thiopurines results
from a decreased level of key cytotoxic nucleotide metabolites,

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 19 Antimetabolites

Clinical Pharmacology
Oral absorption of 6-MP is highly erratic, and the relatively
poor oral bioavailability is mainly related to rapid first-pass
metabolism in the liver. The major route of drug elimination
is via metabolism by several enzymatic pathways. 6-MP is oxidized to the inactive metabolite 6-thiouric acid by xanthine
oxidase. Enhanced 6-MP toxicity may result from the concomitant administration of 6-MP and the xanthine oxidase inhibitor
allopurinol. In patients receiving both 6-MP and allopurinol,
the 6-MP dose must be reduced by at least 50% to 75%. 6-MP
also undergoes S-methylation by the enzyme TPMT to yield
6-methylmercaptopurine.35
6-TG is administered orally in the treatment of AML. Its oral
bioavailability is erratic, with peak plasma levels occurring 2 to
4 hours after ingestion. The catabolism of 6-TG differs from 6-MP
in that it is not a direct substrate for xanthine oxidase.
TPMT enzyme activity may vary considerably among patients
as a result of point mutations or loss of alleles of TPMT.36 Approximately 0.3% of the Caucasian population expresses either a
homozygous deletion or a mutation of both alleles of the TPMT
gene. In these patients, grossly elevated thiopurine nucleotides
concentrations, profound myelosuppression with pancytopenia,
and extensive GI symptoms are observed after only a brief course
of thiopurine treatment. An estimated 10% of patients may be at
increased risk for toxicity because of heterozygous loss of the gene
or a mutant allele coding for a less enzymatically active TPMT.

Toxicity
The major dose-related toxicities of the thiopurines are myelosuppression and GI toxicity in the form of nausea/vomiting, anorexia, diarrhea, and stomatitis.37 In TPMT-deficient patients,
dosage reduction to 5% to 25% of the standard dosage is necessary to prevent severe excessive toxicity. Thiopurine hepatotoxicity occurs in up to 30% of adult patients and presents mainly
as cholestatic jaundice, although elevations of hepatic transaminases may also be seen. Combinations of thiopurines with other
known hepatotoxic agents should be avoided, and liver function
should be closely monitored. The thiopurines are also potent
suppressors of cell-mediated immunity, and prolonged therapy
results in an increased predisposition to bacterial and parasitic
infections.

FLUDARABINE
Fludarabine (9-β-d-arabinosyl-2-fluoroadenine monophosphate,
F-ara-AMP) is an active agent in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) (see Table 19.1).38,39 It is also active
against indolent non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, prolymphocytic
leukemia, cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, and Waldenström macroglobulinemia. This agent has also shown promising activity in
mantle cell lymphoma. In contrast to its activity in hematologic
malignancies, this compound has virtually no activity against
solid tumors.

Mechanism of Action
The active cytotoxic metabolite is the triphosphate metabolite
F-ara-ATP, which competes with deoxyadenosine triphosphate
(dATP) for incorporation into DNA and serves as a highly effective
chain terminator. In addition, F-ara-ATP directly inhibits enzymes
involved in DNA replication, including DNA polymerases, DNA
primase, DNA ligase I, and ribonucleotide reductase.37 F-ara-ATP
is also incorporated into RNA, causing the inhibition of RNA
function, processing, and mRNA translation. In contrast to other
antimetabolites, fludarabine is active against nondividing cells. In
fact, the primary effect of fludarabine may result from activation of
apoptosis, through an as yet ill-defined mechanisms.39 This finding
may explain the activity of fludarabine in indolent lymphoproliferative diseases with relatively low growth fractions.

Mechanisms of Resistance
The decreased expression of the activating enzyme dCK resulting
in diminished intracellular formation of F-ara-AMP is one of the
main resistance mechanisms identified in preclinical models.38
A high degree of cross-resistance develops to multiple nucleoside
analogs, requiring activation by dCK, including cytarabine, gemcitabine, cladribine, and clofarabine. Reduced cellular transport
of drug has also been identified as a resistance mechanism.

Clinical Pharmacology
Peak concentrations of F-ara-A are reached 3 to 4 hours after intravenous administration.40 The main route of elimination is via the
kidneys, with about 25% of a given dose of drug being excreted
unchanged in the urine.

Toxicity
Myelosuppression and immunosuppression are the major side
effects of fludarabine as highlighted by dose-limiting and possibly
cumulative lymphopenia and thrombocytopenia. Suppression of
the immune system affects T-cell function more than B-cell function. Fevers, often in the setting of neutropenia, occur in 20% to
30% of patients. Lymphocyte counts, specifically CD4-positive
cells, decrease rapidly after the initiation of therapy, and recovery
of CD4-positive cells to normal levels may take longer than 1 year.
Common opportunistic pathogens include the varicella-zoster
virus, Candida, and Pneumocystis carinii. In general, patients are
empirically placed on sulfamethoxazole trimethoprim prophylaxis
to prevent the development of P. carinii infection.

CLADRIBINE
Cladribine (2-CdA) is a purine deoxyadenosine analog, and it is
the drug of choice for hairy cell leukemia with activity in lowgrade lymphoproliferative disorders (see Table 19.1).41,42 Salvage
treatment of patients previously treated with interferon-α or splenectomy is as effective as first-line treatment. Retreatment with
cladribine results in a complete response in up to 60% of relapsing
patients. In addition, this agent has promising activity in patients
with CLL and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma.

Mechanism of Action
Upon entry into the cell, 2-CdA undergoes an initial conversion
to cladribine-monophosphate (Cd-AMP) via the reaction catalyzed by dCK, and Cd-AMP is subsequently metabolized to the
active metabolite, cladribine-triphosphate. The triphosphate metabolite competitively inhibits incorporation of the normal dATP

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

either through decreased formation or increased breakdown. Resistant cells have been identified that express either complete or
partial deficiency of the activating enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine
phosphoribosyltransferase (HGPRT). In clinical samples derived
from patients with AML, drug resistance has been associated with
increased concentrations of a membrane-bound alkaline phosphatase or a conjugating enzyme, 6-thiopurine methyltransferase
(TPMT), the end-result being reduced formation of cytotoxic thiopurine nucleotides. Finally, the decreased expression of mismatch
repair enzymes, including hMLH1 and hMSH2, has been associated with cellular drug resistance.

215

216

Cancer Therapeutics

nucleotide into DNA, a process that results in the termination of
chain elongation.43 Progressive accumulation of the triphosphate
metabolite leads to an imbalance in deoxyribonucleotide pools,
thereby inhibiting further DNA synthesis and repair. Finally,
the triphosphate metabolite is a potent inhibitor of ribonucleotide reductase, which further facilitates the inhibition of DNA
biosynthesis.

Ongoing studies are exploring the benefit of clofarabine alone and
in combination with other agents in less heavily pretreated patients
and in the use of different dose schedules for other hematologic
malignancies.46

Mechanism of Action

Resistance to 2-CdA has been attributed to altered intracellular
drug metabolism. A reduction in the activity of dCK, the enzyme
responsible for generating cytotoxic nucleotide metabolites, is a
major determinant of acquired resistance. The monophosphate
and triphosphate metabolites are dephosphorylated by the cytoplasmic enzyme 5′-nucleotidase. Interestingly, resistant cells derived from a patient with CLL exhibited both low levels of dCK
expression and high levels of 5′-nucleotidase.

Clofarabine is inactive in its parent form and, like other purine
analogs, it requires intracellular activation by dCK to form the
monophosphate nucleotide, which undergoes further metabolism
to the cytotoxic triphosphate metabolite. Clofarabine triphosphate
is then incorporated into DNA, resulting in chain termination, and
inhibition of DNA synthesis and function or the triphosphate form
can directly inhibit DNA polymerases α, β, and γ, which in turn,
interferes with DNA chain elongation, DNA synthesis, and DNA
repair. The triphosphate metabolite is also a potent inhibitor of ribonucleotide reductase, further mediating the inhibition of DNA biosynthesis by reducing the levels of key deoxyribonucleotide pools.

Clinical Pharmacology

Mechanisms of Resistance

2-CdA is orally bioavailable, with 50% of an administered dose orally
absorbed. Approximately 50% of an administered dose of drug is
cleared by the kidneys, and 20% to 35% of the drug is excreted unchanged in the urine. Of note, this nucleoside can cross the blood–
brain barrier with penetration into the cerebrospinal fluid.

Several resistance mechanisms have been identified in various
preclinical systems, and they include decreased activation of the
drug through the reduced expression of the anabolic enzyme deoxycytidine kinase, the decreased transport of drug into cells via
the nucleoside transporter protein, and the increased expression
of CTP synthetase activity resulting in increased concentrations
of competing physiologic nucleotide substrate dCTP. To date, the
precise resistance mechanism(s) that are relevant in the clinical
setting remain to be determined.

Mechanisms of Resistance

Toxicity
At conventional doses, myelosuppression is dose limiting. After a
single course of drug, recovery from thrombocytopenia usually occurs within 2 to 4 weeks, whereas recovery from neutropenia takes
place in 3 to 5 weeks. GI toxicities are generally mild, with nausea/
vomiting and diarrhea. Mild-to-moderate neurotoxicity occurs in
15% of patients and is at least partly reversible with discontinuation
of the drug. Immunosuppression accounts for the late morbidity
observed in 2-CdA–treated patients. Lymphocyte counts, particularly CD4-positive cells, decrease within 1 to 4 weeks of drug administration and may remain depressed for several years.44 After
discontinuation of 2-CdA, a median time of up to 40 months may
be required for complete recovery of normal CD4-positive counts.
Although opportunistic infections occur, they do so less frequently
than with fludarabine therapy. Infectious complications correlate
with decreases in the CD4-positive count, and they include herpes
zoster, Candida, Pneumocystis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Listeria
monocytogenes, Cryptococcus neoformans, Aspergillus, P. carinii,
and cytomegalovirus.

CLOFARABINE
Clofarabine is a purine deoxyadenosine nucleoside analog, and
it is approved for the treatment of pediatric patients with relapsed
or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (see Table 19.1).45

Clinical Pharmacology
Approximately 50% to 60% of an administered dose of drug is excreted unchanged in the urine, and the terminal half-life is on
the order of 5 hours. To date, the pathways for nonrenal elimination have not been well defined. Caution should be exercised
in patients with abnormal renal function, and concomitant use of
medications known to cause renal toxicity should be avoided during drug treatment.

Toxicity
Myelosuppression is dose limiting with neutropenia, anemia, and
thrombocytopenia. The capillary leak syndrome (systemic inflammatory response syndrome) presents with tachypnea, tachycardia,
pulmonary edema, and hypotension.47 In essence, this adverse
event is part of the tumor lysis syndrome and results from rapid
cytoreduction of peripheral leukemic cells following treatment.47
Other side effects may include nausea/vomiting, reversible liver
dysfunction (hyperbilirubinemia and elevated serum transaminases), renal dysfunction (approximately 10%), and cardiac toxicity in the form of tachycardia and acute pump dysfunction.

R E F E R E N C E S
1. Wright DL, Anderson AC. Antifolate agents: a patent review (2006–2010).
Expert Opin Ther Pat 2011;21:1293–1308.
2. Chattopadhyay S, Moran RG, Goldman ID. Pemetrexed: biochemical and
cellular pharmacology, mechanisms, and clinical applications. Mol Cancer
Ther 2007;6:404–417.
3. Vogelzang NJ, Rusthoven JJ, Symanowski J, et al. Phase III study of pemetrexed in combination with cisplatin versus cisplatin alone in patients with
malignant pleural mesothelioma. J Clin Oncol 2003;21:2636–2644.
4. Kindler HL. Systemic treatments for mesothelioma: standard and novel.
Curr Treat Options Oncol 2008;9:171–179.

5. Joerger M, Omlin A, Cerny T, et al. The role of pemetrexed in advanced
non small-cell lung cancer: special focus on pharmacology and mechanism
of action. Curr Drug Targets 2010;11:37–47.
6. Zain J, O’Connor O. Pralatrexate: basic understanding and clinical development. Expert Opin Pharmacother 2010;11:1705–1714.
7. Sirotnak FM, DeGraw JI, Moccio DM, et al. New folate analogs of the
10-deaza-aminopterin series. Basis for structural design and biochemical and
pharmacologic properties. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol 1984;12:18–25.
8. O’Connor OA. Pralatrexate: an emerging new agent with activity in T-cell
lymphomas. Curr Opin Oncol 2006;18:591–597.

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

9. Bertino JR, Göker E, Gorlick R, et al. Resistance mechanisms to methotrexate in tumors. Oncologist 1996;1:223–226.
10. Zhao R, Goldman ID. Resistance to antifolates. Oncogene 2003;22:7431–7457.
11. Grem JL. 5-Fluorouracil: forty-plus and still ticking. A review of its preclinical and clinical development. Invest New Drugs 2000;18:299–313.
12. Saif MW, Ezzeldin H, Vance K, et al. DPYD*2A mutation: the most common mutation associated with DPD deficiency. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol 2007;60:503–507.
13. Grem JL. Biochemical modulation of 5-FU in systemic treatment of advanced colorectal cancer. Oncology (Williston Park) 2001;15:13–19.
14. Saif MW, Shah MM, Shah AR. Fluoropyrimidine-associated cardiotoxicity:
revisited. Expert Opin Drug Saf 2009;8:191–202.
15. Saif MW, Eloubeidi MA, Russo S, et al. Phase I study of capecitabine with
concomitant radiotherapy for patients with locally advanced pancreatic
cancer: expression analysis of genes related to outcome. J Clin Oncol 2005;
23:8679–8687.
16. Geyer CE, Forster J, Lindquist D, et al. Lapatinib plus capecitabine for
HER2-positive advanced breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2006;355:2733–2743.
17. Saif MW, Katirtzoglou NA, Syrigos KN. Capecitabine: an overview of the
side effects and their management. Anticancer Drugs 2008;19:447–464.
18. Van Custem E, Verslype C, Tejpar S. Oral capecitabine: bridging the Atlantic divide in colon cancer treatment. Semin Oncol 2005;32:43–51.
19. Haller DG, Cassidy J, Clarke SJ, et al. Potential regional differences for the
tolerability profiles of fluoropyrimidines. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:2118–2123.
20. Saif MW, Syrigos KN, Katirtzoglou NA. S-1: a promising new oral fluoropyrimidine derivative. Expert Opin Investig Drugs 2009;18:335–348.
21. Saif MW, Rosen LS, Saito K, et al. A phase I study evaluating the effect of
CDHP as a component of S-1 on the pharmacokinetics of 5-fluorouracil.
Anticancer Res 2011;31:625–632.
22. Daigo S, Takahashi Y, Fujieda M, et al. A novel mutant allele of the CYP2A6
gene (CYP2A6*11) found in a cancer patient who showed poor metabolic
phenotype towards tegafur. Pharmacogenetics 2002;12:299–306.
23. Reiter A, Hochhaus A, Berger U, et al. AraC-based pharmacotherapy of
chronic myeloid leukaemia. Expert Opin Pharmacother 2001;2:1129–1135.
24. Braess J, Wegendt C, Feuring-Buske M, et al. Leukemic blasts differ from
normal bone marrow mononuclear cells and CD34+ hematopoietic stem
cells in their metabolism of cytosine arabinoside. Br J Haematol 1999;105:
388–393.
25. Momparler RL, Laliberte J, Eliopoulos N, et al. Transfection of murine fibroblast cells with human cytidine deaminase cDNA confers resistance to
cytosine arabinoside. Anticancer Drugs 1996;7:266–274.
26. Cai J, Damaraju VL, Groulx N, et al. Two distinct molecular mechanisms
underlying cytarabine resistance in human leukemic cells. Cancer Res
2008;68:2349–2357.
27. Kern W, Estey EH. High-dose cytosine arabinoside in the treatment of acute
myeloid leukemia: review of three randomized trials. Cancer 2006;107:
116–124.
28. Mini E, Nobili S, Caciagli B, et al. Cellular pharmacology of gemcitabine.
Ann Oncol 2006;17:v7–v12.
29. Saif MW, Sellers S, Li M, et al. A phase I study of bi-weekly administration of
24-h gemcitabine followed by 24-h irinotecan in patients with solid tumors.
Cancer Chemother Pharmacol 2007;60:871–882.

217

30. Bergman AM, Pinedo HM, Peters GJ. Determinants of resistance to
2′, 2′-difluorodeoxycytidine (gemcitabine). Drug Resist Update 2002;5:
19–33.
31. Saif MW, Lee Y, Kim R. Harnessing gemcitabine metabolism: a step towards personalized medicine for pancreatic cancer. Ther Adv Med Oncol
2012;4:341–346.
32. Hong SP, Wen J, Bang S, et al. CD44-positive cells are responsible for
gemcitabine resistance in pancreatic cancer cells. Int J Cancer 2009;125:
2323–2331.
33. Poplin E, Feng Y, Berlin J, et al. Phase III, randomized study of gemcitabine
and oxaliplatin versus gemcitabine (fixed-dose rate infusion) compared with
gemcitabine (30-minute infusion) in patients with pancreatic carcinoma
E6201: a trial of the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group. J Clin Oncol
2009;27:3778–3785.
34. Hande KR. Purine antimetabolites. In: Chabner BA, Longo DL, eds. Cancer
Chemotherapy and Biotherapy: Principles and Practice, 4th ed. Philadelphia:
Lippincott–Raven; 2006: 212.
35. Evans WE. Pharmacogenetics of thiopurine S-methyltransferase and thiopurine therapy. Ther Drug Monitor 2004;26:186–191.
36. Wang L, Weinshilboum R. Thiopurine S-methyltransferase pharmacogenetics: insights, challenges, and future directions. Oncogene 2006;25:
1629–1638.
37. Vora A, Mitchell CD, Lennard L, et al. Toxicity and efficacy of 6-thioguanine versus 6-mercaptopurine in childhood lymphoblastic leukaemia: a randomised trial. Lancet 2006;368:1339–1348.
38. Montillo M, Ricci F, Tedeschi A. Role of fludarabine in hematological malignancies. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther 2006;6:1141–1161.
39. Gandhi V, Plunkett W. Cellular and clinical pharmacology of fludarabine.
Clin Pharmacokinet 2002;41:93–103.
40. van den Neste E, Cardoen S, Offner F, et al. Old and new insights into
the mechanism of action of two nucleoside analogs active in lymphoid malignancies: flludarabine and cladribine. Int J Oncol 2005;27:
1113–1124.
41. Gidron A, Tallman MS. 2-CdA in the treatment of hairy cell leukemia: a
review of long-term follow-up. Leuk Lymphoma 2006;47:2301–2307.
42. Huang P, Robertson LE, Wright S, et al. High molecular weight DNA fragmentation: a critical event in nucleoside analog-induced apoptosis in leukemia cells. Clin Cancer Res 1995;1:1005–1013.
43. Grevz N, Saven A. Cladribine: from the bench to the bedside: focus on hairy
cell leukemia. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther 2004;4:745–757.
44. Seto S, Carrera CJ, Kubota M, et al. Mechanism of deoxyadenosine and
2-chlorodeoxyadenosine toxicity to nondividing human lymphocytes. J Clin
Invest 1985;75:377–383.
45. Bonate PL, Arthaud L, Cantrell WR Jr, et al. Discovery and development of
clofarabine: a nucleoside analogue for treating cancer. Nat Rev Drug Discov
2006;5:855–863.
46. Faderi S, Gandhi V, Keating MJ, et al. The role of clofarabine in hematologic and solid malignancies: development of a next generation nucleoside
analog. Cancer 2005;102:1985–1995.
47. Baytan B, Ozdemir O, Gunes AM, et al. Clofarabine-induced capillary leak
syndrome in a child with refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia. J Pediatr
Hematol Oncol 2010;32:144–146.

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Chapter 19 Antimetabolites

20

Topoisomerase Interactive
Agents

Khanh T. Do, Shivaani Kummar, James H. Doroshow, and Yves Pommier

CLASSIFICATION, BIOCHEMICAL,
AND BIOLOGIC FUNCTIONS OF
TOPOISOMERASES
Nucleic acids (DNA and RNA) being long polymers, topoisomerases fulfill the need for cellular DNA to be densely packaged
in the cell nucleus, transcribed, replicated, and evenly distributed
between daughter cells following replication without tangles.
Topoisomerases are ubiquitous and essential for all organisms as
they prevent and resolve DNA and RNA entanglements and resolve DNA supercoiling during transcription and replication. This
chapter first summarizes the basic elements necessary to understand the mechanism of action of topoisomerases and their inhibitors. More detailed information can be found in recent reviews1–7
and two recent books.8,9 The second part of the chapter summarizes the use of topoisomerase inhibitors as anticancer drugs.

Classification of Topoisomerases
Human cells contain six topoisomerase genes (Table 20.1), which
have been numbered historically. The commonly used abbreviations are Top1 for topoisomerases I (Top1mt being the mitochondrial topoisomerase whose gene is encoded in the cell nucleus),10
Top2 for topoisomerases II, and Top3 for topoisomerases III. Top1
was the first eukaryotic topoisomerase discovered by Champoux
and Dulbecco.11 Topoisomerases solve DNA topologic problems
by cutting the DNA backbone and religating without the assistance of any additional ligase. Top1 and Top3 act by cleaving/
religating a single strand of the DNA duplex, whereas Top2 enzymes cleave and religate both strands, making a four–base pair
reversible staggered cut (Fig. 20.1). It is convenient to remember
that odd-numbered topoisomerases (Top1 and Top3) cleave and
religate one strand, whereas the even numbered topoisomerases
(Top2s) cleave and religate both strands.

Biochemical Characteristics and Cleavage
Complexes of the Different Topoisomerases
The DNA cutting/relegation mechanism is common to all topoisomerases and utilizes an enzyme catalytic tyrosine residue acting as a nucleophile and becoming covalently attached to the end
of the broken DNA. These catalytic intermediates are referred to
as cleavage complexes (see Fig. 20.1B, E). The reverse religation
reaction is carried out by the attack of the ribose hydroxyl ends
toward the tyrosyl-DNA bond.
Top1 (and Top1mt) attaches to the 3′-end of the break, whereas
the other topoisomerases (Top2 and Top3) have opposite polarity
and covalently attach to the 5′-end of the breaks (see Table 20.1
[second column] and Fig. 20.1B, E). Topoisomerases have distinct
biochemical requirements. Top1 and Top1mt are the simplest, nicking/closing, and relaxing DNA as monomers in the absence of cofactor, and even at ice temperature. Top2 enzymes, on the other hand,
are the most complex topoisomerases working as dimers, requiring

ATP binding and hydrolysis, and a divalent metal (Mg2+) for catalysis. Top3 enzymes also require Mg2+ for catalysis but function as
monomers without ATP requirement. Notably, the DNA substrates
differ for Top3 enzymes. Whereas both Top1 and Top2 process double-stranded DNA, the Top3 substrates need to be single-stranded
nucleic acids (DNA for Top3α and DNA or RNA for Top3β).10,12,13

Differential Topoisomerization Mechanisms:
Swiveling Versus Strand Passage, DNA Versus
RNA Topoisomerases
Topoisomerases use two main mechanisms to change nucleic
topology. The first is by “untwisting” the DNA duplex. This
mechanism is unique to Top1, which, by an enzyme-associated
single-strand break, allows the broken strand to rotate around the
intact strand (see Fig. 20.1B) until DNA supercoiling is dissipated.
At this point, the stacking energy of adjacent DNA bases realigns
the broken ends, and the 5′-hydroxyl end attacks the 3′-phosphotyrosyl end, thereby relegating the DNA. A remarkable feature of
this Top1 untwisting mechanism is its extreme efficiency with a
rotation speed around 6,000 rpm and relative independence from
torque, thereby allowing full relaxation of DNA supercoiling.14
The second topologic mechanism is by “strand passage.” This
mechanism allows the passage of a double- or a single-stranded DNA
(or RNA) through the cleavage complexes. Top2α and Top2β both act
by allowing the passage of an intact DNA duplex through the DNA
double-strand break generated by the enzymes. After which, Top2 religates the broken duplex. Such reactions permit DNA decatenation, unknotting, and relaxation of supercoils.3 Top3 enzymes also act by strand
passage but only pass one nucleic acid strand through the single-strand
break generated by the enzymes. In the case of Top3α, the substrate is
a single-stranded DNA segment (such as a double-Holliday junction),
whereas in the case of Top3β, the substrate can be a single-stranded
RNA segment, with Top3β acting as a RNA topoisomerase.13,15

TOPOISOMERASE INHIBITORS AS
INTERFACIAL POISONS
Topoisomerase Inhibitors Act as Interfacial
Inhibitors by Binding at the Topoisomerase–
DNA Interface and Trapping Topoisomerase
Cleavage Complexes
Relegation of the cleavage complexes is dependent on the structure of the ends of the broken DNA (i.e., the realignment of the
broken ends). Binding the drugs at the enzyme–DNA interface
misaligns the ends of the DNA and precludes relegation, resulting in the stabilization of the topoisomerase cleavage complexes
(Top1cc and Top2cc). Crystal structures of drug-bound cleavage
complexes have firmly established this mechanism for both Top1and Top2-targeted drugs.16

218
tahir99 - UnitedVRG

Chapter 20 Topoisomerase Interactive Agents

219

TA B L E 2 0 . 1
Classification of Human Topoisomerases and Topoisomerase Inhibitors
Type

Polarity

Mechanism

Genes

Proteins

Main Functions

Drugs

IB

3′-PY

Rotation/
swiveling

TOP1

Top1

TOP1MT

Top1mt

DNA supercoiling relaxation,
replication, and transcription

Camptothecins,
noncamptothecins

Strand passage
ATPase

TOP2A

Top2α

Decatenation/replication

TOP2B

Top2β

Transcription

Anthracyclines,
anthracenediones,
epipodophyllotoxins

Strand passage

TOP3A

Top3α

DNA replication with BLM

None

TOP3B

Top3β

RNA topoisomerase

IIA

IA

5′-PY

5′-PY

It is critical to understand that the cytotoxic mechanism of
topoisomerase inhibitors requires the drugs to trap the topoisomerase cleavage complexes rather than block catalytic activity. This
sets apart topoisomerase inhibitors from classical enzyme inhibitors such as antifolates. Indeed, knocking out Top1 renders yeast
cells totally immune to camptothecin,17,18 and reducing enzyme
levels in cancer cells confers drug resistance. Conversely, in breast
cancers, amplification of TOP2A, which is on the same locus as
HER2, contributes to the efficacy of doxorubicin.19 Also, cellular
mutations of Top1 and Top2 that renders cells insensitive to the
trapping of topoisomerase cleavage complexes produce high resistance to Top1 or Top2 inhibitors. Based on this trapping of cleavage complexes mechanism, we refer to topoisomerase inhibitors as
topoisomerase cleavage complex-targeted drugs.

Top1cc-Targeted Drugs (Camptothecin and
Noncamptothecin Derivatives) Kill Cancer
Cells by Replication Collisions
Top1cc are cytotoxic by their conversion into DNA damage by
replication and transcription fork collisions. This explains why
A

cytotoxicity is directly related to drug exposure and why arresting
DNA replication protects cells from camptothecin.20,21 The collisions arise from the fact that the drugs, by slowing down the nicking/closing activity of Top1, uncouple the kinetics of Top1 with
the polymerases and helicases, which lead polymerases to collide
into Top1cc (Fig. 20.2A). Such collisions have two consequences.
They generate double-strand breaks (replication and transcription
runoff) and irreversible Top1–DNA adducts (see Fig. 20.2B). The
replication double-strand breaks are repaired by homologous recombination, which explains the hypersensitivity of BRCA-deficient cancer cells to Top1cc-targeted drugs.22 The Top1-covalent
complexes can be removed by two pathways, the excision pathway
centered around tyrosyl-DNA-phosphodiesterase 1 (TDP1)23 and
the endonuclease pathway involving 3′-flap endonucleases such as
XPF-ERCC1.24 It is also possible that drug-trapped Top1cc directly
generate DNA double-strand breaks when they are within 10 base
pairs on opposite strands of the DNA duplex or when they occur
next to a preexisting single-strand break on the opposite strand.
Finally, it is not excluded that topologic defects contribute to the
cytotoxicity of Top1cc-targeted drugs (the accumulation of supercoils25 and the formation of alternative structures such as R-loops)
(see Fig. 20.2D).26

B

C
Y

Top1
Top1mt

5´

5´

Supercoiled duplex

5´

Rotation

D

E

5´

5´

Relaxed duplex

F
Y

Top2␣
Top2␤

Two intertwined
duplexes

5´

Y
Strand
passage

Decatenated, unknotted,
relaxed duplexes

Cleavage complexes
Figure 20.1 Mechanisms of action of topoisomerases. (A–C) Topoisomerases I (Top1 for nuclear DNA and Top1mt for mitochondrial DNA) relax
supercoiled DNA (A) by reversibly cleaving one DNA strand, forming a covalent bond between the enzyme catalytic tyrosine and the 3′ end of the nicked
DNA (the Top1 cleavage complex [Top1cc]) (B). This reaction allows the swiveling of the broken strand around the intact strand. Rapid religation allows
the dissociation of Top1. (D–F) Topoisomerases II (Top2α and Top2β) act on two DNA duplexes (A). They act as homodimers, cleaving both strands and
forming a covalent bond between their catalytic tyrosine and the 5′ end of the DNA break (Top2cc) (E). This reaction allows the passage of the intact
duplex through the Top2 homodimer (red dotted arrow) (E). Top2 inhibitors trap the Top2cc and prevent the normal religation (F).

CANCER THERAPEUTICS

Top1mt, mitochondrial DNA topoisomerase; BLM, Bloom’s syndrome helicare.

220

Cancer Therapeutics

STOP

Collisions of polymerases and helicases (green ellipse)
with trapped Top cleavage complexes (Stop sign)
=> Protein-DNA complexes blocking DNA metabolism

STOP

Conversion of Top1cc into DSB by replication “runoff”
=> Top1 needs to be removed by TDP1
and /or 3’-flap endonucleases (XPF-ERCC1)
=> DSB repaired by homologous recombination
Top1cc also form DSB when on opposite strands or
opposite to a preexisting single-strand break

A

B
Top2cc readily form DSB when concerted cleavage
on both strands and disjunction of the homodimer

STOP STOP

Top2cc proteolysis or mechanical disjoining

C
1

2

3

Topologic defects resulting from Top sequestration
in the cleavage complexes: accumulation of
=> Supercoils (Top1 and Top2) (1)
=> Knots (Top2) (2)
=> Catenanes (Top2) (3)

D

Cytotoxic Mechanisms of Top2cc-Targeted
Drugs (Intercalators and Demethyl
Epipodophyllotoxins)
Contrary to camptothecins, Top2 inhibitors kill cancer cells without requiring DNA replication fork collisions. Indeed, even after a
30-minute exposure, doxorubicin and other Top2cc-targeted drugs
can kill over 99% of the cells, which is in vast excess of the fraction of S-phase cells in tissue culture (generally less than 50%).27,28
The collision mechanism in the case of Top2cc-targeted drugs (see
Fig. 20.2A) appears to involve transcription and proteolysis of both
Top2 and RNA polymerase II.29 Such situation would then lead to
DNA double-strand breaks by disruption of the Top2 dimer interface
(see Fig. 20.2C). Alternatively, the Top2 homodimer interface could
be disjoined by mechanical tension (see Fig. 20.2C). Yet, it is important to bear in mind that 90% of Top2cc trapped by etoposide are not
concerted and, therefore, consist in single-strand breaks,3,30,31 which
is different from doxorubicin, which traps both Top2 monomers and
produces a majority of DNA double-strand breaks.32 Finally, it is not
excluded that topologic defects resulting from Top2 sequestration by
the drug-induced cleavage complexes could contribute to the cytotoxicity of Top2cc-targeted drugs (see Fig. 20.2D). Such topologic
defects would include persistent DNA knots and catenanes, potentially leading to chromosome breaks during mitosis.

TOPOISOMERASE I INHIBITORS:
CAMPTOTHECINS AND BEYOND
Camptothecin is an alkaloid identified in the 1960s by Wall and
Wani33 in a screen of plant extracts for antineoplastic drugs. The
two water-soluble derivatives of camptothecin containing the
active lactone form are topotecan and irinotecan, which are approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the
treatment of several cancers. In addition, several Top1cc-targeting
drugs are in clinical development, including camptothecin derivatives and formulations (including high–molecular-weight conjugates or liposomal formulations), as well as noncamptothecin
compounds that exhibit greater potency or noncross resistance to
irinotecan and topotecan in preclinical cancer models.31,34–36

Figure 20.2 Mechanisms of action of
topoisomerase inhibitors beyond the
trapping of topoisomerase cleavage
complexes. (A) Stalled or slow cleavage
complexes lead to collisions with
replication and transcription complexes.
(B) Collisions of replication complexes
with Top1cc on the leading strand for
DNA synthesis generate DNA doublestrand breaks by replication runoff. Top1cc
can also form DNA double-strand breaks
(DSBs) when they occur opposite to
another Top1cc or preexisting nick. (C)
Top2cc, which are normally held together
by Top2 homodimers, can be converted
to free DSBs upon Top2cc proteolysis or
dimer disjunction. (D) Topologic defects
resulting from functional topoisomerase
deficiencies play a minor role in the
anticancer activity of topoisomerase
cleavage complex targeted drugs.

Irinotecan
Irinotecan, a prodrug containing a bulky dipiperidine side chain
at C-10 (Fig. 20.3), is cleaved by a carboxylesterase-converting enzyme in the liver and other tissues to generate the active
metabolite, SN-38. Irinotecan is FDA approved for the treatment
of colorectal cancer in the metastatic setting as first-line treatment
in combination with 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin (5-FU/LV) and as a
single agent in the second-line treatment of progressive colorectal
cancer after 5-FU–based therapy (see Table 20.1).37,38 Newer therapeutic uses of irinotecan include a combination with oxaliplatin
and 5-FU as first-line treatment in pancreatic cancer.39 Irinotecan
is additionally used in combination with cisplatin or carboplatin
in extensive-stage small-cell lung cancer40,41 as well as refractory
esophageal and gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) cancers, gastric
cancer, cervical cancer, anaplastic gliomas and glioblastomas, and
non–small-cell lung cancer (Table 20.2). Irinotecan is usually administered intravenously at a dose of 125 mg/m2 for 4 weeks with a
2-week rest period in combination with bolus 5-FU/LV, 180 mg/m2
every 2 weeks in combination with an infusion of 5-FU/LV, or 350
mg/m2 every 3 weeks as a single agent.
Diarrhea and myelosuppression are the most common toxicities associated with irinotecan administration. Two mechanisms
explain irinotecan-induced diarrhea. Acute cholinergic effects
resulting in abdominal cramping and diarrhea occur within 24
hours of drug administration are the result of acetylcholinesterase inhibition by the prodrug, and can be treated with the
administration of atropine. Direct mucosal cytotoxicity with
diarrhea is typically observed after 24 hours and can result in
significant morbidity. Symptoms are managed with loperamide.
Hepatic metabolism and biliary excretion accounts for >70% of
the elimination of the administered dose, with renal excretion
accounting for the remainder of the dose. SN-38 is glucuronidated in the liver by UGT1A1, and deficiencies in this pathway increase the risk of diarrhea and myelosuppression. Dose
reductions are recommended for patients who are homozygous
for the UGT1A1*28 allele, for which an FDA-approved test for
detection of the UGT1A1*28 allele in patients is available.42,43
Additionally, dose reductions of irinotecan are recommended
for patients with hepatic dysfunction, with bilirubin greater than
1.5 mg/mL.44

tahir99 - UnitedVRG

