Q101: A 76-year-old African American man presents to his primary care provider complaining of urinary frequency. He wakes up 3-4 times per night to urinate while he previously only had to wake up once per night. He also complains of post-void dribbling and difficulty initiating a stream of urine. He denies any difficulty maintaining an erection. His past medical history is notable for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and gout. He takes aspirin, atorvastatin, enalapril, and allopurinol. His family history is notable for prostate cancer in his father and lung cancer in his mother. He has a 15-pack-year smoking history and drinks alcohol socially. On digital rectal exam, his prostate is enlarged, smooth, and non-tender. Which of the following medications is indicated in this patient?
Q102: A previously healthy 36-year-old man comes to the physician for a yellow discoloration of his skin and dark-colored urine for 2 weeks. He does not drink any alcohol. Physical examination shows jaundice. Abdominal and neurologic examinations show no abnormalities. Serum studies show increased levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST). A liver biopsy is performed and a photomicrograph after periodic acid-Schiff-staining is shown. Which of the following is the most likely additional finding in this patient?
Q103: A 69-year-old male presents to the emergency room with back pain. He has a history of personality disorder and metastatic prostate cancer and was not a candidate for surgical resection. He began chemotherapy but discontinued due to unremitting nausea. He denies any bowel or bladder incontinence. He has never had pain like this before and is demanding morphine. The nurse administers IV morphine and he feels more comfortable. Vital signs are stable. On physical examination you note tenderness to palpation along the lower spine, weakness in the bilateral lower extremities, left greater than right. Neurological examination is also notable for hyporeflexia in the knee and ankle jerks bilaterally. You conduct a rectal examination, which reveals saddle anesthesia. Regarding this patient, what is the most likely diagnosis and the appropriate next step in management?
Q104: A 52-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 6-month history of generalized fatigue, low-grade fever, and a 10-kg (22-lb) weight loss. Physical examination shows generalized pallor and splenomegaly. Her hemoglobin concentration is 7.5 g/dL and leukocyte count is 41,800/mm3. Leukocyte alkaline phosphatase activity is low. Peripheral blood smear shows basophilia with myelocytes and metamyelocytes. Bone marrow biopsy shows cellular hyperplasia with proliferation of immature granulocytic cells. Which of the following mechanisms is most likely responsible for this patient's condition?
Q105: A 5-year-old girl is brought to the clinic by her mother for excessive hair growth. Her mother reports that for the past 2 months she has noticed hair at the axillary and pubic areas. She denies any family history of precocious puberty and reports that her daughter has been relatively healthy with an uncomplicated birth history. She denies any recent illnesses, weight change, fever, vaginal bleeding, pain, or medication use. Physical examination demonstrates Tanner stage 4 development. A pelvic ultrasound shows an ovarian mass. Laboratory studies demonstrates an elevated level of estrogen. What is the most likely diagnosis?
Q106: A 70-year-old man presents to a medical clinic reporting blood in his urine and lower abdominal pain for the past few days. He is also concerned about urinary frequency and urgency. He states that he recently completed a cycle of chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Which medication in the chemotherapy regimen most likely caused his symptoms?
Q107: A 38-year-old woman undergoes hemithyroidectomy for treatment of localized, well-differentiated papillary thyroid carcinoma. The lesion is removed with clear margins. However, during the surgery, a structure lying directly adjacent to the superior thyroid artery at the upper pole of the thyroid lobe is damaged. This patient is most likely to experience which of the following symptoms?
Q108: A 55-year-old man comes to the physician because of fatigue and worsening abdominal pain for 4 weeks. He also reports excessive night sweats and a 5.4-kg (12-lb) weight loss during this time. He has a neck swelling for 4 days. Physical examination shows a nontender, enlarged, and fixed supraclavicular lymph node. There is splenomegaly. A CT scan of the thorax and abdomen shows massively enlarged axillary, mediastinal, and cervical lymph nodes. Analysis of an excised cervical lymph node shows lymphocytes with a high proliferative index that stain positive for CD20. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Q109: A 57-year-old man comes to the physician for a follow-up evaluation of chronic, retrosternal chest pain. The pain is worse at night and after heavy meals. He has taken oral pantoprazole for several months without any relief of his symptoms. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy shows ulcerations in the distal esophagus and a proximally dislocated Z-line. A biopsy of the distal esophagus shows columnar epithelium with goblet cells. Which of the following microscopic findings underlie the same pathomechanism as the cellular changes seen in this patient?
Q110: A 53-year-old woman with hypertension and hyperlipidemia comes to the physician because of generalized reddening of her skin and itching for the past 2 weeks. Her symptoms occur every evening before bedtime and last for about 30 minutes. Three months ago, atorvastatin was stopped after she experienced progressively worsening neck and back pain. Statin therapy was reinitiated at lower doses 3 weeks ago but had to be stopped again after her musculoskeletal symptoms recurred. Her menses occur irregularly at 2–3 month intervals and last for 3–4 days. She has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for the past 30 years. Her current medications include lisinopril and niacin. Her brother died of colonic adenocarcinoma, and her father died of small cell lung cancer. She is 169 cm (5 ft 6 in) tall and weighs 83 kg (183 lb); BMI is 29 kg/m2. Her vital signs are within normal limits. Physical examination shows no abnormalities. Serum lipid studies show:
Total cholesterol 247 mg/dL
HDL-cholesterol 39 mg/dL
LDL-cholesterol 172 mg/dL
Triglycerides 152 mg/dL
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?"
Q111: A 45-year-old man is transferred to the intensive care unit from the emergency department for acute respiratory failure. He was rushed to the hospital after developing progressive respiratory distress over the last 24 hours. His medical history is significant for long-standing severe persistent asthma, hypertension, and several bouts of community and hospital-acquired pneumonia. His medications include amlodipine, lisinopril, inhaled fluticasone, salmeterol, and oral prednisone. He is a lifelong non-smoker and drinks alcohol occasionally on the weekends. He works as a sales executive and went to Hawaii a month ago. In the emergency department, he was started on broad-spectrum antibiotics and bronchodilators. His respiratory failure progressively worsens, and on day 2 of admission, he requires mechanical ventilator support. Chest X-ray shows multiple nodules bilaterally in the lower lobes. Flexible bronchoscopy is performed and the bronchoalveolar lavage sample from the medial segment of the right lower lobe shows neutrophils, and the fungal preparation shows Aspergillus fumigatus. A video-assisted thoracoscopy is performed and biopsy from the right lower lobe is taken which shows plugging of the terminal bronchioles with mucus, inflammatory cells, and fungal vascular invasion. Which of the following is the most likely mechanism responsible for the biopsy findings?
Q112: A 70-year-old man comes to the physician because of a 4-month history of epigastric pain, nausea, and weakness. He has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for 50 years and drinks one alcoholic beverage daily. He appears emaciated. He is 175 cm (5 ft 9 in) tall and weighs 47 kg (103 lb); BMI is 15 kg/m2. He is diagnosed with gastric cancer. Which of the following cytokines is the most likely direct cause of this patient’s examination findings?
Q113: A 67-year-old woman with advanced bladder cancer comes to the physician for a follow-up examination. She is currently undergoing chemotherapy with an agent that forms cross-links between DNA strands. Serum studies show a creatinine concentration of 2.1 mg/dL and a blood urea nitrogen concentration of 30 mg/dL. Urine dipstick of a clean-catch midstream specimen shows 2+ protein and 1+ glucose. Prior to initiation of chemotherapy, her laboratory values were within the reference range. In addition to hydration, administration of which of the following would most likely have prevented this patient's current condition?
Q114: A 57-year-old post-menopausal woman comes to the physician because of intermittent, bloody post-coital vaginal discharge for the past month. She does not have pain with intercourse. Eleven years ago, she had LSIL on a routine Pap smear and testing for high-risk HPV strains was positive. Colposcopy showed CIN 1. She has not returned for follow-up Pap smears since then. She is sexually active with her husband only, and they do not use condoms. She has smoked half a pack of cigarettes per day for the past 25 years and does not drink alcohol. On speculum exam, a 1.4 cm, erythematous exophytic mass with ulceration is noted on the posterior wall of the upper third of the vagina. Which of the following is the most probable histopathology of this mass?
Q115: A 45-year-old man with HIV comes to the physician because of multiple lesions on his chest and lower extremities. The lesions have progressively increased in size and are not painful or pruritic. Current medications include abacavir, dolutegravir, and lamivudine. A photograph of the lesions is shown. His CD4+ T-lymphocyte count is 450/mm3 (normal ≥ 500/mm3). A skin biopsy shows multiple spindle-shaped cells and lymphocytic infiltrate. Which of the following is the most appropriate pharmacotherapy?
Q116: A 61-year-old man with a history of stage IIIa lung adenocarcinoma that has been treated with wedge resection and chemotherapy presents to the primary care clinic. He is largely asymptomatic, but he demonstrates a persistent microcytic anemia despite iron supplementation. Colonoscopy performed 3 years earlier was unremarkable. His past medical history is significant for diabetes mellitus type II, hypertension, acute lymphoblastic leukemia as a child, and hypercholesterolemia. He currently smokes 1 pack of cigarettes per day, drinks a glass of pinot grigio per day, and currently denies any illicit drug use. His vital signs include: temperature, 36.7°C (98.0°F); blood pressure, 126/74 mm Hg; heart rate, 87/min; and respiratory rate, 17/min. On physical examination, his pulses are bounding, complexion is pale, but breath sounds remain clear. Oxygen saturation was initially 91% on room air, with a new oxygen requirement of 2 L by nasal cannula. Which of the following lab values would suggest anemia of chronic disease as the underlying etiology?
Q117: A 62-year-old woman presents to her physician with a painless breast mass on her left breast for the past 4 months. She mentions that she noticed the swelling suddenly one day and thought it would resolve by itself. Instead, it has been slowly increasing in size. On physical examination of the breasts, the physician notes a single non-tender, hard, and fixed nodule over left breast. An ultrasonogram of the breast shows a solid mass, and a fine-needle aspiration biopsy confirms the mass to be lobular carcinoma of the breast. When the patient asks about her prognosis, the physician says that the prognosis can be best determined after both grading and staging of the tumor. Based on the current diagnostic information, the physician says that they can only grade, but no stage, the neoplasm. Which of the following facts about the neoplasm is currently available to the physician?
Q118: A 74-year-old female is brought to the emergency department because of a 2-week history of increasing weakness and chills. She also notes difficulty breathing for the last three days. Eight weeks ago, she underwent left hemicolectomy for adenocarcinoma of the colon. She subsequently developed a severe urinary tract infection, was treated in the intensive care unit for four days, and was discharged from the hospital three weeks ago. She has type 2 diabetes mellitus, osteoporosis with lumbar pain, hypertension, and atrial fibrillation. She has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for 50 years. She does not drink alcohol and has never used illicit drugs. Current medications include warfarin, metformin, lisinopril, and aspirin. She appears lethargic and has a large conjunctival hemorrhage in her left eye. Her temperature is 39.3°C (102.7°F), pulse is 112/min, respirations are 25/min, and blood pressure is 126/79 mm Hg. Cardiac auscultation reveals a new holosystolic murmur over the apex. Abdominal examination shows mild, diffuse tenderness throughout the upper quadrants and a well-healed 12-cm paramedian scar. There are multiple tender nodules on the palmar surface of her fingertips. Funduscopic examination shows retinal hemorrhages with pale centers. An ECG shows atrial fibrillation and right bundle branch block. Which of the following is the most likely underlying etiology of this patient's condition?
Q119: A 58-year-old obese woman presents with painless postmenopausal bleeding for the past 5 days. A recent endometrial biopsy confirmed endometrial cancer, and the patient is scheduled for total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Past medical history is significant for stress incontinence and diabetes mellitus type 2. Menarche was at age 11 and menopause was at age 55. The patient has 4 healthy children from uncomplicated pregnancies, who were all formula fed. Current medications are topical estrogen and metformin. Family history is significant for breast cancer in her grandmother at age 80. Which of the following aspects of this patient’s history is associated with a decreased risk of breast cancer?
Q120: A 48-year-old woman comes to the physician for the evaluation of a left breast mass that she noticed 4 weeks ago. It has rapidly increased in size during this period. Vital signs are within normal limits. Examination shows large dense breasts; a 6-cm, nontender, multinodular mass is palpated in the upper outer quadrant of the left breast. There are no changes in the skin or nipple. There is no palpable cervical or axillary adenopathy. Mammography shows a smooth polylobulated mass. An image of a biopsy specimen is shown. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Q121: An investigator who studies virology obtains a biopsy from the ulcer base of an active genital herpes lesion for viral culture. The cultured virions, along with herpes simplex virions of a different phenotype, are cointroduced into a human epithelial cell in vitro. The progeny viruses are found to have phenotypes that are distinct from the parent strains. Sequencing of these progeny viruses shows that most genomes have material from both parent strains. These findings are best explained by which of the following terms?
Q122: A 48-year-old female complains of tingling sensation in her fingertips as well as the skin around her mouth which woke her up from sleep. She is in the postoperative floor as she just underwent a complete thyroidectomy for papillary thyroid cancer. Her temperature is 37° C (98.6° F), respirations are 15/min, pulse is 67/min, and blood pressure is 122/88 mm Hg. While recording the blood pressure, spasm of the muscles of the hand and forearm is seen. What is the next best step in the management of this patient?
Q123: A 35-year-old man presents with a mass on the central part of his neck. He reports it has been growing steadily for the past 2 weeks, and he has also been experiencing fatigue and recurrent fevers. No significant past medical history. The patient denies any smoking history, or alcohol or recreational drug use. He denies any recent travel in the previous 6 months. On physical examination, there are multiple enlarged submandibular and cervical lymph nodes that are firm, mobile, and non-tender. A biopsy of one of the lymph nodes is performed and shows predominantly lymphocytes and histiocytes present in a pattern ‘resembling popcorn’. A flow cytometry analysis demonstrates cells that are CD19 and CD20 positive and CD15 and CD30 negative. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis in this patient?
Q124: A 60-year-old man comes to the physician’s office with jaundice. Liver ultrasound reveals a shrunken liver and biopsy reveals cirrhosis. Hepatitis serologies are below:

Anti-HAV: negative
HBsAg: negative
HBsAb: positive
HBeAg: negative
Anti-HBe: negative
Anti-HBc: negative
Anti-HCV: positive

The hepatitis C viral load is 1,000,000 copies/mL. The patient is started on an antiviral regimen including sofosbuvir. What is the mechanism of action of this drug?
Q125: A 30-year-old man comes to the physician for his annual health maintenance examination. The patient has no particular health concerns. He has a history of bilateral cryptorchidism treated with orchidopexy at 8 months of age. This patient is at increased risk for which of the following?
Q126: A 21-year-old woman presents to the emergency department with complaints of intermittent bouts of lower abdominal and pelvic pain over the last week. The pain is primarily localized to the right side and is non-radiating. The patient is not sexually active at this time and is not currently under any medication. At the hospital, her vitals are normal. A pelvic examination reveals a tender palpable mass on the right adnexal structure. A pelvic CT scan reveals a 7-cm solid adnexal mass that was surgically removed with the ovary. Histological evaluation indicates sheets of uniform cells resembling a 'fried egg', consistent with dysgerminoma. Which of the following tumor markers is most likely elevated with this type of tumor?
Q127: A 58-year-old woman presents to the physician’s office with vaginal bleeding. The bleeding started as a spotting and has increased and has become persistent over the last month. The patient is G3P1 with a history of polycystic ovary syndrome and type 2 diabetes mellitus. She completed menopause 4 years ago. She took cyclic estrogen-progesterone replacement therapy for 1 year at the beginning of menopause. Her weight is 89 kg (196 lb), height 157 cm (5 ft 2 in). Her vital signs are as follows: blood pressure 135/70 mm Hg, heart rate 78/min, respiratory rate 12/min, and temperature 36.7℃ (98.1℉). Physical examination is unremarkable. Transvaginal ultrasound reveals an endometrium of 6 mm thickness. Speculum examination shows a cervix without focal lesions with bloody discharge from the non-dilated external os. On pelvic examination, the uterus is slightly enlarged, movable, and non-tender. Adnexa is non-palpable. What is the next appropriate step in the management of this patient?
Q128: A 67-year-old woman presents to a surgeon with a painless, slowly growing ulcer in the periauricular region for the last 2 months. On physical examination, there is an irregular-shaped ulcer, 2 cm x 1 cm in its dimensions, with irregular margins and crusting over the surface. The woman is a fair-skinned individual who loves to go sunbathing. There is no family history of malignancy. After a complete physical examination, the surgeon performs a biopsy of the lesion under local anesthesia and sends the tissue for histopathological examination. The pathologist confirms the diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. When she asks about the cause, the surgeon explains that there are many possible causes, but it is likely that she has developed squamous cell carcinoma on her face due to repeated exposure to ultraviolet rays from the sun, especially ultraviolet B (UVB) rays. If the surgeon’s opinion is correct, which of the following mechanisms is most likely involved in the pathogenesis of the condition?
Q129: A 40-year-old female comes in with several months of unintentional weight loss, epigastric pain, and a sensation of abdominal pressure. She has diabetes well-controlled on metformin but no other prior medical history. She has not previously had any surgeries. On physical exam, her doctor notices brown velvety areas of pigmentation on her neck. Her doctor also notices an enlarged, left supraclavicular node. Endoscopic findings show a stomach wall that appears to be grossly thickened. Which of the following findings would most likely be seen on biopsy?
Q130: A 42-year-old woman comes to the physician for the evaluation of a 1-month history of dull lower abdominal pain, decreased appetite, and a 5-kg (11-lb) weight loss. Physical examination shows no abnormalities. Pelvic ultrasonography shows bilateral ovarian enlargement and free fluid in the rectouterine pouch. Biopsy specimens from the ovaries show multiple, round, mucin-filled cells with flat, peripheral nuclei. Further evaluation of this patient is most likely to show which of the following findings?
Q131: An 80-year-old woman seeks evaluation at an outpatient clinic for a firm nodular lump on the left side of her labia. The medical history is notable for hypertension, coronary artery disease status post CABG, and lichen sclerosus of the vagina that was treated with an over-the-counter steroid cream as needed. She first noticed the lump about 5 months ago. On physical examination, the temperature is 37°C (98.6°F), the blood pressure is 135/89 mm Hg, the pulse is 95/min, and the respiratory rate is 17/min. Examination of the genital area reveals a small nodular lump on the left labium majus with visible excoriations, but no white plaque-like lesions. What is the next best step in management?
Q132: Two days following the home birth of her son, a mother brings the infant to the pediatric emergency room because of bilious vomiting. He is unable to pass meconium and his abdomen is distended. Endoscopic biopsy of the proximal colon demonstrates an absence of Meissner’s and Auerbach’s plexi in the bowel wall. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Q133: A 49-year-old man comes to the physician because of a 6-month history of increasing fatigue and reduced libido. He also complains of joint pain in both of his hands. His vital signs are within normal limits. Physical examination shows tanned skin and small testes. The second and third metacarpophalangeal joints of both hands are tender to palpation and range of motion is limited. The liver is palpated 2 to 3 cm below the right costal margin. Histopathologic examination of a liver biopsy specimen shows intracellular material that stains with Prussian blue. This patient is at greatest risk for developing which of the following complications?
Q134: An 11-year-old girl is brought to the emergency department because of high-grade fever, headache, and nausea for 3 days. She avoids looking at any light source because this aggravates her headache. She has acute lymphoblastic leukemia and her last chemotherapy cycle was 2 weeks ago. She appears lethargic. Her temperature is 40.1°C (104.2°F), pulse is 131/min and blood pressure is 100/60 mm Hg. Examination shows a stiff neck. The pupils are equal and reactive to light. Neck flexion results in flexion of the knee and hip. Muscle strength is decreased in the right upper extremity. Deep tendon reflexes are 2+ bilaterally. Sensation is intact. Extraocular movements are normal. Two sets of blood cultures are obtained. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
Q135: A 65-year-old man presents with painless swelling of the neck over the past week. He also has noted severe night sweats, which require a change of clothes and bed linens the next day. His medical history is significant for long-standing hypertension. He received a kidney transplant 6 years ago. His current medications include amlodipine, metoprolol, furosemide, aspirin, tacrolimus, and mycophenolate. His family history is significant for his sister, who died last year from lymphoma. A review of systems is positive for a 6-kg (13.2-lb) unintentional weight loss over the past 2 months. His vital signs include: temperature 37.8℃ (100.0℉) and blood pressure 120/75 mm Hg. On physical examination, there are multiple painless lymph nodes, averaging 2 cm in diameter, palpable in the anterior and posterior triangles of the neck bilaterally. Axillary and inguinal lymphadenopathy is palpated on the right side. Abdominal examination is significant for a spleen of 16 cm below the cost margin on percussion. Laboratory studies are significant for the following:
Hemoglobin 9 g/dL
Mean corpuscular volume 88 μm3
Leukocyte count 12,000/mm3
Platelet count 130,000/mm3
Creatinine 1.1 mg/dL
Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) 1 000 U/L
A peripheral blood smear is unremarkable. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis in this patient?
Q136: A 50-year-old man comes to the physician for a routine checkup. He has had a progressively increasing swelling on the nape of his neck for 2 months. He does not have a fever or any discharge from the swelling. He underwent a colectomy for colon cancer at the age of 43 years. He has type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and osteoarthritis of the left knee. Current medications include insulin glargine, metformin, enalapril, and naproxen. He has worked as a traffic warden for the past 6 years and frequently plays golf. He appears healthy. His temperature is 37.3°C (99.1°F), pulse is 88/min, and blood pressure is 130/86 mm Hg. Examination of the neck shows a 2.5-cm (1-in) firm, mobile, and painless nodule. The skin over the nodule cannot be pinched. The lungs are clear to auscultation. The remainder of the examination shows no abnormalities. A photograph of the lesion is shown. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Q137: A 17-year-old man is brought by his mother to his pediatrician in order to complete medical clearance forms prior to attending college. During the visit, his mother asks about what health risks he should be aware of in college. Specifically, she recently saw on the news that some college students were killed by a fatal car crash. She therefore asks about causes of death in this population. Which of the following is true about the causes of death in college age individuals?
Q138: A 50-year-old male presents to his primary care physician for a routine check-up. He reports that he is doing well overall without any bothersome symptoms. His past medical history is significant only for hypertension, which has been well controlled with losartan. Vital signs are as follows: T 37.0 C, HR 80, BP 128/76, RR 14, SpO2 99%. Physical examination does not reveal any concerning abnormalities. The physician recommends a fecal occult blood test at this visit to screen for the presence of any blood in the patient's stool that might be suggestive of an underlying colorectal cancer. Which of the following best describes this method of disease prevention?
Q139: A 53-year-old woman comes to the physician for a follow-up examination. One month ago, she was diagnosed with carcinoma of the left breast. She underwent a lumpectomy for a 2.1-cm mass and sentinel lymph node biopsy 2 weeks ago. The biopsy of the breast mass showed margin-free invasive ductal carcinoma; immunohistochemistry showed the carcinoma is estrogen-receptor and progesterone-receptor negative, and HER2-receptor positive. The lymph node biopsy was negative for metastases. Examination shows a healing surgical incision over the left breast. There is no palpable axillary lymphadenopathy. Her physician decides to initiate treatment with appropriate pharmacotherapy. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
Q140: A 34-year-old man with AIDS comes to the physician because of a 2-day history of decreasing vision and seeing black spots in his right eye. He has no pain and the left eye is asymptomatic. He was treated for fungal esophagitis 6 months ago with fluconazole. He was diagnosed with Kaposi's sarcoma 2 years ago. Current medications include efavirenz, tenofovir, emtricitabine, azithromycin, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, multivitamins, and a nutritional supplement. He is 170 cm (5 ft 7 in) tall and weighs 45 kg (99 lbs);BMI is 15.6 kg/m2. His temperature is 37°C (98.6°F), pulse is 89/min, and blood pressure is 110/70 mm Hg. Examination shows cervical lymphadenopathy. There are multiple violaceous plaques seen over his trunk and extremities. Fundoscopic examination shows granular yellow-white opacities around the retinal vessels and multiple areas of dot-blot hemorrhages. His CD4+ T-lymphocyte count is 36/mm3. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Q141: A 45-year old man comes to the physician because of a painless neck lump and a 2-month history of difficulty swallowing. He has a history of recurrent nephrolithiasis and episodic hypertension. Physical examination shows a 3 × 3-cm, nontender nodule at the level of the thyroid cartilage. A photomicrograph of a section of tissue obtained by core needle biopsy of the nodule is shown. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Q142: A 72-year-old man presents to his primary care provider to discuss the frequency with which he wakes up at night to urinate. He avoids drinking liquids at night, but the symptoms have progressively worsened. The medical history is significant for hypertension and hyperlipidemia. He takes lisinopril, atorvastatin, and a multivitamin every day. Today, the vital signs include: blood pressure 120/80 mm Hg, heart rate 90/min, respiratory rate 17/min, and temperature 37.0°C (98.6°F). On physical examination, he appears tired. The heart has a regular rate and rhythm and the lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally. A bedside bladder ultrasound reveals a full bladder. A digital rectal exam reveals an enlarged and symmetric prostate free of nodules, that is consistent with benign prostatic enlargement. He also has a history of symptomatic hypotension with several episodes of syncope in the past. The patient declines a prostate biopsy that would provide a definitive diagnosis and requests less invasive treatment. Which of the following is recommended to treat this patient’s enlarged prostate?
Q143: A 63-year-old man comes to the physician for the evaluation of a skin lesion on his chest. He first noticed the lesion 2 months ago and thinks that it has increased in size since then. The lesion is not painful or pruritic. He has type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypercholesterolemia, and glaucoma. The patient has smoked 1 pack of cigarettes daily for the last 40 years and drinks two to three beers on the weekend. Current medications include metformin, atorvastatin, topical timolol, and a multivitamin. Vital signs are within normal limits. The lesion is partly elevated on palpation and does not change its form on pinching. A photograph of the lesion is shown. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Q144: A 47-year-old man presents to the clinic with a 10-day history of a sore throat and fever. He has a past medical history significant for ulcerative colitis and chronic lower back pain. He smokes at least 1 pack of cigarettes daily for 10 years. The father of the patient died of colon cancer at the age of 50. He takes sulfasalazine and naproxen. The temperature is 38.9°C (102.0°F), the blood pressure is 131/87 mm Hg, the pulse is 74/min, and the respiratory rate is 16/min. On physical examination, the patient appears tired and ill. His pharynx is erythematous with exudate along the tonsillar crypts. The strep test comes back positive. In addition to treating the bacterial infection, what else would you recommend for the patient at this time?
Q145: A patient with HCC and a long history of alcohol dependence and chronic hepatitis C has been using the mTOR inhibitor Metalimus 100 mg for cancer treatment. Her cancer has shown a partial response. She also has a history of hypertension and poorly controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus complicated by diabetic retinopathy. Current medications include enalapril and insulin. She asks her oncologist and hepatologist if she could try Noxbinle (tumorolimus) for its purported survival benefit in treating HCC. Based on the data provided in the drug advertisement, which of the following statements is most accurate?
Q146: A 38-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 10-month history of nonbloody diarrhea and recurrent episodes of flushing and wheezing. She does not take any medications. Physical examination shows a hyperpigmented rash around the base of her neck. Cardiac examination shows a grade 4/6, holosystolic murmur in the 5th intercostal space at the left midclavicular line. Echocardiography shows left-sided endocardial and valvular fibrosis with moderate mitral regurgitation; there are no septal defects or right-sided valvular defects. Urinalysis shows increased 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentration. Further evaluation of this patient is most likely to show which of the following findings?
Q147: A 41-year-old woman is referred by her radiation oncologist to the medical genetics clinic. She was recently diagnosed with an infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the breast. She has a previous history of colonic polyps for which she undergoes bi-annual colonoscopy. The maternal and paternal family history is unremarkable for polyps and malignant or benign tumors. However, the patient reports that her 10-year-old son has dark brown pigmentation on his lips, and she also had similar pigmentation as a child. Histology of colonic polyps in this patient will most likely reveal which of the following?
Q148: A 70-year-old man comes to the physician because of right-sided back pain, red urine, and weight loss for the last 4 months. He has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for 40 years. A CT scan of the abdomen shows a large right-sided renal mass. Biopsy of the mass shows polygonal clear cells filled with lipids. Which of the following features is necessary to determine the tumor grade in this patient?
Q149: A previously healthy 46-year-old woman comes to her physician because of an itchy rash on her legs. She denies any recent trauma, insect bites, or travel. Her vital signs are within normal limits. Examination of the oral cavity shows white lace-like lines on the buccal mucosa. A photograph of the rash is shown. A biopsy specimen of the skin lesion is most likely to show which of the following?
Q150: A 48-year-old female presents to the emergency room with mental status changes.
Laboratory analysis of the patient's serum shows:
Na 122 mEq/L
K 3.9 mEq/L
HCO3 24 mEq/L
BUN 21 mg/dL
Cr 0.9 mg/dL
Ca 8.5 mg/dL
Glu 105 mg/dL

Urinalysis shows:
Osmolality 334 mOsm/kg
Na 45 mEq/L
Glu 0 mg/dL

Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
